STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | DISTRIBUTION ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM OPERATIONAL REVIEW Distribution Who we are and what we do The Speciality Tapes business has expertise in coating multiple adhesive A leading global manufacturer and The Components business is a global systems in numerous technologies.
With distributor of a comprehensive range market leading manufacturer and close to 3,000 adhesive products available of components, used in diverse distributor of plastic injection moulded, for same-day shipping, Essentras products industrial applications and endvinyl dip moulded and metal items.
can meet all high-performance needs, markets.
Operating units in 29 countries serve a from foam, magnetic, finger lift and very broad industrial base of customers acrylic high bond tapes to hook and loop with a rapid supply of products for a and non-skid foam.
variety of applications in industries such as equipment manufacturing, automotive, The Security business has access to a Revenue fabrication, electronics and construction.
wide portfolio of products and services, 2015: 268.6m 2014: 244.0m 10.1% including printers, software and The Speciality Tapes business is a leading consumables from leading manufacturers.
1 Operating profit manufacturer and distributor of adhesiveOur systems produce durable, high- 2015: 60.3m 2014: 56.9m 6.0% coated products for a wide range of quality, credit card-style photo ID cards, industries and applications, in particular which are compatible with the majority of 1 Operating margin the point of sale and white goods sectors.
security systems, and which can be 2015: 22.4% 2014: 23.3% -90bps specified to incorporate magstripes, The Security business is a European leading barcodes, contactless chips or smart Revenue per employee provider of ID card printers, systems and cards.
To complement our ID card systems, 2015: 122.0k 2014: 148.7k -18.0% accessories to direct and trade customers, the Security business also offers a range providing the broadest product offering of manual and electronic visitor and most competitive value.
management systems, as well as an extensive range of ID accessories such % Revenue by destination How we do it as badge holders, clips and lanyards.
Europe & Africa 50.9 Americas 39.4 The objective of our Components business How we performed in 2015 is to leverage its extensive customer base, Asia including Middle East 9.7 product range and distribution capability, Delivering balanced, profitable growth using our efficient sourcing and Revenue increased 10.1% 11.4% at constant manufacturing operations and integrated exchange to 268.6m.
On a like-for-like % Revenue by end-market IT platform, to respond to the demands basis, growth was 10.0% and was driven 30.9 Electronics of our diverse customer base.
Our tool by new business wins, the roll-out of 23.4 library, product development skills and distribution sites and range expansion.
Fabrication machinery manufacturing experience, combined with 11.4 Automotive our inventory and logistics infrastructure, In Components, the result reflected 10.5 Paper, board & point of sale are unique assets.
We have sophisticated continued improvement in the trading 5.6 Document & identity solutions business-to-business, multi-channel environment in much of Continental marketing expertise, and support this Europe during the year, with an improved 18.2 Other with our knowledgeable sales resource second-half performance in the UK as and comprehensive product catalogues, anticipated.
The Asia region delivered which are available in many languages strong, broad-based growth and continued and online.
to benefit from the opening of a regional distribution centre in Singapore in 2014, We target organic growth through with our cable management and increasing the range of products and movement control products serving effective marketing, expanding our the electronics industry in south east Asia customer base and entering new performing particularly well.
Trading in the geographic markets.
We also see Americas was more challenging, although opportunities to grow through acquisition, an underlying improvement in execution where it can move our business into in the second half helped to mitigate a 1 complementary product categories or weakening market environment, notably Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items end-markets, or further our geographic in the oil & gas, agricultural and distribution capability.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | DISTRIBUTION Complementing our core standard The result in Speciality Tapes was Improving operational excellence components business, we made supported by an increase in the print and efficiency encouraging progress in expanding our finishing and industrial categories.
During the year, we opened two new, custom injection moulding activities Finger Lift tape continued to perform purpose-built facilities in Leduc, Canada during the year, with incremental revenue well, benefiting from the installation of and in Sydney.
In the case of the former, opportunities generated in a number high-speed aqueous coating equipment Essentra Components customers can of end-markets in particular in the at the Chicago, US site which has now select from nearly six million essential automotive sector.
broadened the range of adhesives and parts from our well-known general performance characteristics of the protection, cable management and New catalogues were launched in product offering: in conjunction with the MRO ranges, which are available in stock all three geographic regions, with the business hot melt capability, this advance for rapid shipment: they can also benefit European and Asian versions featuring has helped to generate further commercial from free samples and CAD drawings.
some 7,000 new products predominantly opportunities.
Custom gaskets and sealing Meanwhile, the latter which produced in springs and magnets.
Our hardware solutions also increased, with investment over 17 million parts and shipped more range performed particularly strongly, in die-cutting equipment helping to boost than 18,000 product lines in 2015 alone benefiting from our investment in further business wins with a major secures domestic manufacturing dedicated specialist sales resources and multi-national white goods customer.
capability and provides us with a strong larger project wins in the transport and From a geographical perspective, the foundation for ambitious growth in a cabinet manufacturing sectors.
Further result reflected a continued good targeted market, being supported by to the rapid rebranding of Abric Seals to performance from the Express footprint the afore mentioned Specialty Plastics Essentra, approximately 300 security seals in North America.
transaction in western Australia and the were additionally included in the core expansion of our warehousing capabilities catalogues and with greater focus on Adjusted operating profit grew 6.0% 6.8% in our Asian regional hub of Singapore.
targeted end-markets there have been at constant exchange to 60.3m at both Accordingly, both the investments some encouraging early business wins, constant and actual exchange equating underscore our ongoing commitment notably in the airlines sector.
to a 90bps decline in the margin to 22.4%, to providing our customers with even largely due to the short-term dilutive greater product choice and availability, The successful site roll-out programme impact of acquisitions.
In addition, further combined with the best possible delivery continued in 2015 with market entry into benefits from the consolidation of the and service proposition.
South Korea and Dubai in both cases Components site footprint, together with co-locating with existing Essentra facilities.
raw material and operating efficiency Reinforcing our manufacturing capability To support the expansion, dedicated local savings were offset by increased marketing in 2015, we invested in the latest in plastic websites and catalogues were introduced spend in the first half of the year.
injection moulding equipment at our in each of these markets: in the former, European hub in Kidlington to further c. 7,000 cable management samples are Complemented by value-adding M&A enhance our production cycle time: we now available for same-day delivery On 20 February, we announced that we also installed a mezzanine level featuring to customers in our targeted electronics had completed the acquisition of spiral conveyors, which have allowed us sector, while the latters product offer is Specialty Plastics.
Based in Perth, to improve our pick and pack efficiency.
particularly focused on pipe and flange Australia, Specialty Plastics is a leading In addition, we have taken the opportunity components.
distributor of an extensive range of to automate certain manufacturing protective plastic products for a wide processes at the acquired security seals variety of attractive growth end-markets.
sites in Malaysia and Thailand, which Having fully integrated Specialty Plastics has resulted in both productivity and with our existing business in Sydney and labour savings.
introduced some 13,000 products onto the combined.
au website, we are even better-positioned to serve both domestic and export customers with a rapid supply of essential components, in particular in the construction, specialist transport and oil & gas industries.
16 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | DISTRIBUTION ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM 2016 key initiatives Just-in-time delivery What we measure Exploit new business opportunities As customers are required to deliver their in the automotive and white goods own products just-in-time, so their NUMBER OF ACTIVE CUSTOMERS segments, for both standard and demand for critical components from their Why we measure it custom components suppliers is increasingly on the same basis.
Reflects marketing effectiveness and measures the potential population for Improve Components performance Increasing labour costs further growth opportunities in the Americas Standardised manufacturing processes Further leverage hardware capabilities and components typically require less How we have done with telecoms and power distribution labour, thereby helping customers reduce 13.7% decrease in active customer accounts customers their cost base.
There is also a trend on the prior twelve months, reflecting among larger customers to design in continued consolidation of customer Continue to improve inventory higher technology markets such as the accounts due to the migration to a single management, to deliver additional US, UK, Germany, Japan and Singapore, Essentra brand net working capital savings and then to manufacture in lower labour Leverage geographic capabilities cost regions eg, eastern Europe, China NET PROMOTER SCORE into new markets to exploit growth and India, which benefits components Why we measure it opportunities, particularly in point suppliers with global reach.
Reflects our customers overall satisfaction of sale and retail categories with our products and service, as well as Industry specification loyalty to our brand Extend Key Account Management As end-markets become more in household and white goods sectors, sophisticated and demanding, so the How we have done to globalise success with multirequirement for higher-quality components A score of 30 compares to 29 in 2014 national customers increases.
Over and above this more Increase focus on key Industrial general trend, certain customers are ON TIME IN FULL segments, such as electrical increasingly facing regulatory guidelines Why we measure it components and HVAC in terms of the specification of the Demonstrates the ability to meet components they use.
delivery demands Market trends Weight reduction How we have done Increasing focus on fuel efficiency in the 88.3% compares to 85.4% in 2014 Given their very wide application, the automotive industry is resulting in weight global market for industrial components reduction targets and a trend of replacing is large, fragmented and ill-defined for metal components with plastic.
However, management estimates the value of Growing functionality the available market for low-cost direct Increased product sophistication, material components at c. 4.5bn pa. particularly in the automotive and white goods sectors, is resulting in growing Manufacturing GDP growth rate demand for cable management solutions.
With low-cost direct material components being used in a very broad spectrum of Key new product opportunities industrial end-markets, those countries Continue range expansion, to provide with a higher manufacturing GDP growth customers with the broadest selection rate are particularly attractive.
of components Increased use of standard components Develop new sectors for existing There is an increasing move to small, customer base, such as hardware specialised manufacturing businesses, Globalise successful local products which assemble their parts and equipment through established supply chain from a range of standard components.
This approach provides them with Enter new and adjacent product flexibility, and the ability to move quickly markets, such as Point of Sale to provide their own customers with Launch products which are compliant the service they require.
with new industry standards 17 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE PACKAGING Health & Personal Who we are and what we do innovative specialist secondary packaging and authentication solutions to meet Care Packaging A leading global provider of packaging the rapidly changing requirements of the and authentication solutions to a pharmaceutical and health & personal care A leading global provider of specialist diversified blue-chip customer base in markets.
Working in effective partnership packaging and authentication the pharmaceutical, health & personal with customers and strategic suppliers, solutions to a diversified blue-chip care, consumer and specialist packaging Essentra is committed to quality, flexibility customer base.
The business focuses on delivering and creativity, and is well placed to meet value-adding innovation, quality and the exacting needs of an international service through the provision of a wide customer base.
range of printed products and solutions, including cartons, tapes, leaflets, foils, In consumer packaging, Essentra is Revenue labels and authentication technologies.
recognised as the leading manufacturer 2015: 394.4m 2014: 169.3m 133.0% and supplier of pressure-sensitive tear tape, Our product portfolio is led by our and a growing provider of other solutions 1 Operating profit pharmaceutical, health and personal such as cartons, labels, closures, seals, bags, 2015: 52.2m 2014: 30.8m 69.5% care offerings, positioned under the single sacks and commercial print.
Essentras Essentra brand throughout Europe and range not only provides functional 1 Operating margin the Americas and rapidly expanding in advantages for packaged consumer goods, 2015: 13.2% 2014: 18.2% -500bps Asia.
Our cartons, tapes, leaflets, foils, such as easy opening or resealability, but labels and brand protection technologies can also be used as a medium for carrying Revenue per employee can combine to provide a multi-functional branding and communication messages or 2015: 110.2k 2014: 128.1k -14.0% product choice for our customers.
brand protection features, including overt, Accordingly, our range of solutions helps covert and forensic technologies.
to ensure that the consumer does not % Revenue by destination get frustrated by opening packs, and How we performed in 2015 receives products that have been 62.3 Europe & Africa protected in transit, have not been Delivering balanced, profitable growth 34.1 Americas tampered with and can be confirmed Revenue increased 133.0% 140.6% at 3.6 Asia including Middle East as genuine.
Adjusting for the acquisition of Clondalkin SPD with Supported by an in-house design studio, effect from 30 January 2015, like-for-like % R&D and multi-million pound print growth was 2.3%: having been broadly flat Revenue by end-market facilities, Essentra is positioned to at the half year stage, this FY 2015 outturn Healthcare 72.7 deliver the very best in quality, service reflected an acceleration in the like-for-like Food & beverage 13.1 and reliability through its worldwide performance in the second half, to 4.6%.
Tobacco 9.3 manufacturing and sales structure.
A strong result in the underlying health Paper, board & point of sale 3.5 How we do it and personal care packaging business Other 1.4 was boosted by new business wins, Our objective is to use our business combined with the ongoing roll-out of development philosophy and resource the Companys Key Account Management to identify innovation opportunities strategy to its global customer base.
and translate these into novel, workable This was partially offset by tobacco tear solutions.
We seek to leverage our tape, where market conditions remain well-invested, international footprint challenging owing to the ongoing trend to provide market-leading quality and of removing value-added features.
service on a global basis, and to add value to both customers and consumers.
2015 was another positive year for packaging innovation and the further Operating from manufacturing sites across commercialisation of recently launched Europe, the Americas and Asia, Essentra is products.
In the healthcare sector, we a leading global supplier of a broad suite of introduced serialised cartons to help 1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 18 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE PACKAGING ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM customers ensure they are well placed value-creation objectives: in this respect, Subsequently, on 16 October, we to meet the rapidly evolving legislative progress is already being made to address announced that we had signed an requirements in respect of tracking, such less attractive activities to underpin the agreement to acquire the pharmaceutical tracing and authenticating their products margin expansion already entailed by the packaging assets of Kamsri.
Based in throughout the supply chain.
Accordingly, the integration Bangalore, Kamsri is a leading manufacturer to provide further layers of protection of Clondalkin SPD to date is in line with of premium packaging solutions for the in the fight against counterfeit expectations, with the operating margin pharmaceutical and healthcare endpharmaceutical and healthcare products, up by over 250bps and returns progressing markets in India.
Indeed, with a highly we continued to leverage our brand towards the Companys previously complementary product range, Kamsri protection capabilities through the launch communicated acquisition objectives.
provides Essentra with an entry point into of fibre-tear labels, which cause irreversible these attractive industries in India, thereby damage to a product carton upon In healthcare, the resulting expansion in reinforcing our global packaging capabilities removal, allowing consumers to easily our footprint combined with the breadth and enhancing the opportunities for our identify if packaging has been interfered of range and capabilities which we can customers.
As anticipated, the acquisition with and, thus, providing a crucial collectively offer has already elevated the completed shortly after year-end, with the tamper-evidence function.
dialogue which we are able to have with assets already being transferred to our multi-national customers and expanded dedicated  In consumer packaging, our AquaSense the potential commercial opportunities.
manufacturing facility, also in Bangalore.
label, launched in 2014 and being the At the same time, our increased scale first example of Essentras Active Label catalysed a review of our tendering and Improving operational excellence Technology which controls humidity onboarding processes, such that our and efficiency and reduces product waste due to goods revised procedures now better reflect the During the year, we continued to invest drying out, was further commercialised: requirements of a global leading player in equipment and our site footprint, we also achieved very good success with with a more complex operational footprint.
both to underpin future revenue growth our broader range of freshness labels, Meanwhile, in beauty and personal care opportunities as well as to generate particularly in the tobacco sector for both where Clondalkin SPD materially further operational efficiencies.
To support cigarettes and roll your own products.
expanded our market presence we are the afore mentioned launch of serialised already seeing the benefits of a more cartons, we installed additional equipment Adjusted operating profit increased 69.5% comprehensive product offering and a and technology which enable us to operate 70.9% at constant exchange to 52.2m.
reinvigorated go-to-market campaign to the required degree of complexity entailed The 500bps decline -540bps at constant behind a single Essentra brand which in printing unique data, as well as capturing exchange in the margin was largely due has been duly positioned to reflect the the huge volume of resulting information in to the significantly dilutive initial impact aesthetic demands of this sector, over an appropriately robust manner to ensure of the Clondalkin SPD business being less and above the practical requirements of regulatory compliance.
We also added to our than 10% on acquisition, together with packaging.
This is particularly resonant digital capability, to allow us to print smaller the mix effect of the decline in valuegiven our combined expertise in runs in a more cost-effective and expeditious added tear tape in the tobacco category.
sophisticated printing capabilities and manner: with the new printer able to tactile labels and cartons.
As such, while accommodate sophisticated tactile finishes Complemented by value-creating M&A revenue opportunities are typically slower and varnish effects, we are now even better Having successfully completed the to realise in health and personal care placed to provide our customers with a rapid Clondalkin SPD transaction for US$455m packaging than in other end-markets in and flexible service.
In addition, we invested in January, action was taken to rapidly which we operate not least owing to in six further carton and leaflet presses, integrate the acquired activities into regulatory considerations and customer which have not only increased our capacity Essentras underlying business.
As such, quality standards we have made a but also improved both manufacturing at the HY 2015 results stage, we increased positive start since completion.
Meanwhile, efficiency and product quality.
our cost synergy target by 50% versus in consumer packaging, we have won our ingoing expectation to US$24m, and some exciting new business which has Key to the delivery of the targeted synergy we are on track to deliver these on an arguably benefited from the expanded savings from the Clondalkin SPD acquisition annualised basis from 2016.
In addition, Essentra Group capabilities, not least a is the consolidation of our combined site during the acquisition process, certain sizeable contract with a well-known footprint.
Further to the completion of the lines of business were identified which foodservice brand.
transaction, we closed the Portland and were not consistent with Essentras Evansville facilities in the US and transferred return and profitability metrics and the activities to Moorestown and Charlotte 19 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE PACKAGING respectively.
Meanwhile, in Ireland, the Market trends Key new product opportunities activities at Swiftbrook and Cherry Orchard Investment in technology, to develop were folded into Essentras existing Dublin Management estimates the value of the novel, value-added packaging and healthcare site, while the consumer global market addressable for specialist brand protection solutions packaging operations at Denekamp in secondary health and personal care Functional packaging benefits, such as the Netherlands are in the process of packaging and pressure sensitive tear tapes opening, closing and tamper evidence being absorbed by the Leeuwarden site.
at c. 10bn, growing at a low to mid single-digit level depending on the Eco-friendly packaging solutions, such However, it is the UK which has presented end-markets served.
as closing and resealing the greatest operational complexity, Creative and secure design solutions to where we have shut or are in the process Increasing consumer communication provide enhanced communication and of shutting four sites.
The business Packaging is increasingly used to authentication opportunities from these facilities has been is being communicate brand messages, and to transitioned to a new, state-of-the-art engage with consumers via promotions operation in Newport, adjacent to our or competitions.
What we measure existing site which was officially opened at the end of 2014.
The investment in this Functionality and convenience INNOVATION PERCENTAGE OF SALES second location will entail a six-fold increase of packaging DERIVED FROM RECENTLY DEVELOPED in our existing footprint and see Newport There is a growing demand for packaging PRODUCTS become a centre of excellence for labels which not only offers optimum product Why we measure it and foil production, with additional protection, but is also easy for consumers Demonstrates the success of new products capability for cartons manufacturing.
and technologies Consistent with our Group target, eleven Brand and identity protection How we have done Clondalkin SPD sites gained accreditation and verification 8.3% of revenue generated from products to ISO 50001 during the year.
Brand owners have a continued need to launched in the last three years, reflecting protect their assets from counterfeiters, the impact of the acquisition of 2016 key initiatives while public and private organisations Clondalkin SPD Grow market share and build global require secure identification of individuals.
Key Account Management, to increase ON TIME IN FULL customer relevance Legislation Why we measure it Increasing regulatory requirements, such as Drives performance of quality systems Continue to address less attractive the European Falsified Medicines Directive, and service delivery acquired activities, to support balanced, are driving demand for tamper-evident profitable growth objective packaging, while the more standardised How we have done Deliver creativity in market-led product pack requirements of the EU Tobacco 92.9% compares to 94.4% in 2014, development and leverage in-house Products Directive potentially limit the reflecting the impact of the acquisition design expertise scope for innovative solutions.
of Clondalkin SPD Scale production in North America, Sustainability and waste reduction CUSTOMER SATISFACTION CUSTOMER particularly in beauty, blister foils and There is a growing need for packaging to COMPLAINTS tamper-evident solutions be resealable so as to maintain freshness Why we measure it Expand offering in India, further to the and reduce waste, as well as to have a Drives performance of quality systems acquisition of Kamsri lower environmental impact.
and performance delivery Launch global Quality Management Provision of total solutions How we have done System, to ensure alignment of Customers are increasingly seeking a 65.0% increase in complaints from 2014, standards around the world partner which can deliver a complete reflecting the impact of the acquisition offering from design to end-supply of Clondalkin SPD as well as individual products capable of providing multiple pack benefits.
20 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM Filter Products Who we are and what we do How we do it The only global independent provider Our Filter Products business unit is the only Innovation is at the heart of our of filters and related solutions to the global independent supplier of filters.
Not business, and our objective is to tobacco industry.
only do we manufacture standard filters, develop value-creating partnerships with but as the leading supplier of special filters our customers.
We seek to leverage our we also provide innovative solutions that long-standing experience, expertise and meet the consumer-driven demands of insight to provide brand differentiation the tobacco industry against a backdrop and identity solutions, as well as excellence Revenue of ongoing legislative changes.
In addition, in both manufacturing and service.
2015: 302.6m 2014: 291.5m 3.8% our offering extends to nicotine delivery Our recognised ability to provide new solutions, where we have a number of value-added products and services is 1 Operating profit fully-functional and packaged e-cigarette key to the future growth of our business, 2015: 55.4m 2014: 39.0m 42.1% products, which draw upon the broad as market dynamics in the tobacco range of solutions which the entire industry continue to evolve.
1 Operating margin Essentra Group can deliver.
2015: 18.3% 2014: 13.4% 490bps Research in filters is carried out at a We also increasingly provide adjacent dedicated Technology Centre, supported Revenue per employee services to the tobacco industry.
Our by three regional development facilities.
2015: 175.6k 2014: 168.3k 4.3% Scientific Services facility located in the UK Together, they work closely with was one of the first independent, externally customers to understand their specific accredited laboratories for the testing of needs, and strive to deliver innovative cigarettes, cigarette filters, smokeless solutions which will give their brands % Revenue by destination devices including e-cigarettes and low differentiation and relevance, at a pace Europe & Africa 39.7 ignition propensity LIP for cigarette appropriate to local market conditions Asia including Middle East 39.0 papers, and has over 20 years experience and legislative requirements.
Our of providing analytical services to state offering is further enhanced by our Americas 21.3 monopolies, and both independent and ability to complement our customers multi-national customers.
Additionally, own strengths and assets in a variety we offer a full bespoke range for the of tolling, or outsourced management, % Sales volume by type design, packing and packaging of filters for relationship arrangements, as well as Monoacetate 43.5 roll your own brands, providing an efficient our growing adjacent services activities.
and cost-effective solution to delivering Other special 38.0 retail-ready products to the market.
We continuously upgrade our technology Carbon 13.0 and footprint, to ensure we exceed our Flavour 5.5 The Filter Products business unit supplies customers expectations and remain at over 700 product specifications to c. 300 the forefront of market trends.
Our flexible customers, including all the multi-national global manufacturing capability allows tobacco companies.
We have eight us to respond rapidly to market changes manufacturing facilities in seven countries, and customer demand for surge volumes, supported by a dedicated research facility while a consistent focus on high standards and three regional development centres.
of quality, cost control and production efficiency act as further sources of competitive advantage.
1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 21 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS How we performed in 2015 Our Scientific Services unit continued 2016 key initiatives to perform well, further building on its Continue to align geographic footprint Delivering balanced, profitable growth extensive experience and expanded range with market shift in production volume Revenue increased 3.8% 3.0% at constant of accredited testing methods.
During the Further increase innovation in special exchange to 302.6m.
Underlying volumes year, a new facility dedicated exclusively filters to capture growing demand, were ahead of the prior year, with a to the testing of e-cigarettes was added particularly in Asia and the Middle East particularly good result in both special and to the existing analytical laboratory non-standard diameter filters eg, Slims.
services, to ensure the delivery of Improve value proposition in more high-quality analysis which remains at the competitive mature markets In FY 2015, Asia accounted for 61% volumes forefront of industry trends and regulatory Maintain focus on delivering further FY 2014: 60%.
While China and India were requirements in this growing segment.
quality and productivity improvements both more challenging owing to short-term In addition, we won new business for inventory destocking and substantial tax the testing of ignition propensity, and Leverage further benefits from increases respectively, our Indonesian and successfully renewed our three-year investment in high-speed, more Dubai JV businesses delivered particularly contract with the UK government for flexible equipment strong underlying growth.
In addition, our the testing of all cigarette brands.
Thai facility supported the successful Market trends commercialisation of a bespoke innovative Adjusted operating profit rose 42.1% special filter under a long-term agreement 43.2% at constant exchange to 55.4m, The global tobacco market is valued at with a multi-national customer, although equating to a 490bps improvement c. US$810bn, with broadly flat cigarette this did not fully compensate for the 510bps at constant exchange in the retail volume growth.
impact of a sizeable contract in Europe margin to 18.3%.
This uplift was driven by which is starting to mature.
a further improvement in productivity and Regulation efficiency initiatives, together with a full The tobacco industry is heavily regulated Building on our track record of successful year benefit of savings from the closure around the world on health grounds, with innovation, a number of new products of our site in Italy in 2014.
The margin was significant restrictions on the way in which and development initiatives were further boosted by a favourable product products can be marketed to consumers.
Among these mix and raw material procurement Legislation continues to evolve, both was the Super Slim Corinthian, a filter savings, although the certainty of in respect of traditional cigarettes and which provides a distinctive flute maintaining either or both of these innovations such as e-cigarettes, as well definition to give a unique consumer positive factors cannot be assured.
as surrounding the testing and packaging experience and as a multi-segment requirements for these products.
filter can be combined with carbon, Improving operational excellence flavour, coloured acetate tow or a and efficiency Illicit trade recess, to offer numerous possibilities In order to ensure that we continue Counterfeiting of tobacco products is for visualisation and brand differentiation.
to deliver value, we are committed to a significant and increasing challenge We also supported our customers with maintaining a flexible and competitive for the industry, undermining brand value, bespoke solutions tailored to their specific geographic footprint.
With our customers presenting a risk to consumers from low needs: these included innovative tube continuing to shift their production from quality goods and reducing tax revenues.
and dualtriple-segment filters certain western to eastern Europe and Asia, The illicit trade accounts for approximately of which incorporating flavour capsules, we took the decision to transfer our filter 11% of duty-paid cigarette volumes and more environmentally friendly roll your manufacturing, product development is estimated to be growing at c. 9% pa own products combining our Ochre filter and innovation activities based in Jarrow, well ahead of the overall industry.
tip with our unique, degradable plugwrap UK to our facility in Hungary, and as a material and the introduction of consequence we closed the Bedesway Beyond tobacco products demiand micro-slim filters to further site at the end of the year.
The market for products beyond traditional leverage our know-how in the fast-growing cigarettes continues to evolve rapidly.
As In 2015, we also continued our investment is increased interest in other nicotine delivery a result, joint development activity in modern, high-speed combining mechanisms which offer heat not burn, increased 8% versus FY 2014. equipment to underpin our objective in particular in e-cigarettes which are of improving capability and capacity reportedly delivering rapid growth albeit notably in our Hungarian and Thai facilities from a low base and which are forecast to ensure we remain optimally positioned to continue doing so.
to meet the exacting requirements of our international customer base.
22 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM East versus west What we measure Accounting for over 70% of total world cigarette volume, the growth markets of CONVERSION COSTS AS A PERCENTAGE Asia dominate the global tobacco industry OF REVENUE and are forecast to continue to increase.
Why we measure it Continued focus delivers financial Consumer engagement performance As per capita income rises particularly in eastern markets so lifestyles change and How we have done new segments are created, with different 21.1%, a 510bps improvement from 26.2% consumer expectations and aspirations in 2014 from the products which they purchase.
As such, there is an increasing demand ON TIME IN FULL for new products to reflect these changes.
Why we measure it Demonstrates the ability to meet Consumer need delivery demands Consumers are increasingly concerned with environmental matters, such as How we have done sustainability and pollution, and the 92.9% compares to 92.4% in 2014 impact of products which they purchase.
Such needs are often unspoken but QUALITY COMPLAINTS PER create challenges for the industry to BILLION RODS supply products which address such Why we measure it considerations.
Drives productivity and the efficient use of material Cost and price As the price of cigarettes has continued How we have done to increase, growth opportunities have 4.9 complaints per billion rods, an been created for other industry segments increase from 3.8 in 2014 including roll your own and Other Tobacco Products, such as chewing tobacco.
WASTE Why we measure it Key new product opportunities Drives productivity and the efficient Lifestyle solutions eg, Slims Super use of material Slims, low ultra-low tar, eco ranges How we have done Brand-specific requirements, such 6.8%, a slight increase from 6.7% in 2014 as recessed filters Enhanced user experience, such as capsules, flavoured thread and activated carbon Full bespoke service for roll your own brands Provision of scientific services Adjacent sectors, such as e-cigarettes and heat not burn products 23 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | SPECIALIST TECHNOLOGIES Specialist Who we are and what we do and constantly develop new intellectual property regarding materials, processes Technologies Our Specialist Technologies business unit is and applications, with a view to a leading provider of specialised solutions providing new and existing customers A leading provider of specialised to an international customer base in a with unique solutions.
solutions to an international customer wide range of end-markets, including oil base in a wide range of end-markets.
& gas, construction, point of sale, health As a global leading supplier to the oil & gas & personal care and consumer goods.
sectors, our PPT business provides the broadest range of custom thread and pipe Essentra Porous Technologies is a leading protection products for a complete range developer and manufacturer of custom of OCTG tubulars, line pipe and drilling pipe Revenue fluid-handling components, engineered applications.
Our objective is to leverage our 2015: 135.5m 2014: 162.1m -16.4% from a portfolio of technologies that state-of-the-art manufacturing footprint includes bonded and non-woven fibre, headquartered in Houston, US, to meet 1 Operating profit polyurethane foam and porous plastics.
global demand while ensuring adherence 2015: 19.8m 2014: 29.8m -33.6% Representing innovations used in to the latest industry regulations.
healthcare, consumer and industrial 1 Operating margin applications, its enabling components Offering a full range of value-added 2015: 14.6% 2014: 18.4% -380bps are found in a wide range of products design and production services, Essentra from medical diagnostics tests to Extrusion is well placed to provide Revenue per employee advanced wound care pads, inkjet printer purpose-developed products based on 2015: 148.7k 2014: 158.6k -6.2% cartridges, writing instruments, clean unique specifications.
Our objective is to room wipes and air fresheners.
leverage our extensive in-house capabilities including a laboratory, R&D department % Revenue by destination The Pipe Protection Technologies PPT and tooling expertise to partner with business specialises in the manufacture customers from the earliest stages of new Americas 50.1 of high-performance innovative products product development and provide them Europe & Africa 34.4 from commodity resins to engineeringwith a compelling value proposition, no Asia including Middle East 15.5 grade thermoplastics and polymer alloys matter how complex the finished product.
for use in a range of end-markets.
Locations in four countries, combined How we performed in 2015 % with a wide distributor network, serve Revenue by end-market customers around the world.
Revenue decreased 16.4% -18.0% at Writing instruments 20.3 constant exchange to 135.5m, driven Healthcare 18.2 Essentra Extrusion is a leading custom predominantly by the impact of weakness Clean room 14.8 profile extruder located in the Netherlands, in the oil & gas industry on the PPT which offers a complete design and business.
Excluding PPT, revenue was Oil & gas 12.7 production service.
One of the first ahead 2.4% 1.7% at constant exchange Construction 7.9 companies to extrude plastics in 1956, to 118.4m.
Household 7.4 Essentra is now one of Europes most advanced suppliers of co-extrusion and In Porous Technologies, the result was Printer systems 5.7 tri-extrusion to all branches of industry.
supported by new contract awards, the Other 13.0 commercialisation of recent product How we do it innovation and geographic expansion.
The increase in healthcare benefited from In Porous Technologies, our objective further developments in advanced wound is to leverage our technical expertise in care, as well as strong growth in cosmetic collaboration with our customers, to foam and products using porous plastics.
provide them with innovative, high-quality, Further distribution channel and range reliable, quick-to-market solutions to their expansion, and line extensions boosted respective fluidand vapour-handling speciality wipes, while household benefited challenges.
Our R&D teams focus on from further development and scaling each of our three material technologies up of both reed and porous plastic 1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 24 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | SPECIALIST TECHNOLOGIES ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
In writing instruments, a drill pipe thread protector line was base even better with a full technology the performance was underpinned by stocked for the first time at our regional platform, as well as reduce the cost base.
continued portfolio expansion in nibs hub warehouse in Singapore as well as In addition, to support future growth in to both current and new customers.
in Australia, with the MaxX and Mega the attractive healthcare sector, we added The result in printer systems reflected an ranges also being launched in Saudi a further pregnancy test wick line at our accelerating decline in the market, where Arabia.
Meanwhile, the result in the Ningbo, China facility to meet rising conditions are increasingly challenging Americas benefited from a new business demand for these essential diagnostic and in light of which a strategic review of win in Brazil with an international components.
Essentras Porous Technologies footprint customer, thanks to our continued has been initiated.
investment in regional product In Extrusion, we installed innovative, availability at our facility in Paraguay.
high-speed equipment at our facility In 2015, the business continued its track in Buitenpost, the Netherlands, which record of converting its intellectual Further new contract wins, combined allows us to manufacture significantly property into commercial success.
This with more encouraging market conditions, larger profiles than before.
As a result, included new contract wins for infused drove a strong result in Extrusion, with we are now better positioned to exploit antimicrobial advanced wound care foam particular success in more complex, new business opportunities, particularly to provide enhanced infection prevention technical extruded components.
These in the construction sector.
In addition, we control to address this growing market included plastic profiles used in the installed a second line for the production trend, and the development of new purification of drinking and processed of high-quality profiles incorporating foil insecticide and innovative air freshener water in both municipal and industrial application: such products are typically wick opportunities.
Further progress was installations: extruded finishing parts used in kitchens, with the further made with our filtration components: in used in the furniture sector, such as investment in our capability meaning that India, we launched our first product for plinths and edge bands, where additional we are well-placed to continue to support sediment removal into the residential water business was won with a major multithe requirements of our blue-chip filtration segment as well as an automotive national retailer during the year: and in customer base.
paint filter, with encouraging early results construction across a range of internal also being delivered for our water and and external applications.
In PPT, we continued to invest in diesel components in Europe, the US and technology for large capacity, energy India.
At the same time, the patented Adjusted operating profit decreased efficient injection presses, as well as reservoir technology which was initially 33.6% -36.1% at constant exchange developed the latest in part moulding developed in 2014 to support the Essentra to 19.8m and the margin declined by tooling, utilising multi-cavity moulds that Groups commercialisation of a range of 380bps -410bps at constant exchange.
An can produce up to 16 parts per moulding nicotine delivery solutions was further improvement in Extrusion which benefited cycle.
These advances have helped to refined for even better performance.
from more benign raw material costs and ensure consistent product quality while continued efficiency programmes was reducing cost.
In addition, we added Like-for-like revenue in PPT declined offset by the impact of the decline in robotics and automated parts handling 64.9% to 17.1m owing to developments revenue in the higher margin PPT and systems to over 60% of our presses, in the oil & gas sector, with a significant Porous Technologies printer systems resulting in further improvements in decline in the North American rig count businesses, notwithstanding rapid cost quality and labour cost savings.
driving a consequent reduction in drilling and headcount reduction.
activity and demand from the pipe mills.
During the year, we also completed Notwithstanding this challenging Investing in operational excellence an infrastructure build-out and total backdrop, our MaxX range of American and execution refurbishment of our former injection Petroleum Institute-compliant, premium A number of operational initiatives were moulding activities into a centre to thread and API standard thread protectors successfully completed during the year.
accommodate an expanded CNC threading which come in both standard and liftable plant in Houston, such that we are now one versions performed well, benefiting from In Porous Technologies, writing instrument of the few thread protector manufacturers being specified by certain large customers nib production was transferred from globally to offer our customers two as their product of choice.
In addition, Korea to a state-of-the-art manufacturing separate facilities for product moulding the business expanded and reinforced its facility in Indonesia which together with and high-speed product threading geographic footprint outside the US, investment in additional high-speed ink capabilities.
Finally, we installed automated successfully leveraging the Essentra reservoir capacity in both India and China computerised indexing tool and mould Groups international network.
In Asia, will allow us to serve our global customer storage systems in our dedicated fireproof 25 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | SPECIALIST TECHNOLOGIES storage room, to provide a more secure Porous Technologies or contamination risk.
Such controlled environment for our high-value tools and environments are increasingly being moulds which are the foundation of our Market trends adopted as best practice on a global basis.
capability to manufacture the broadest range of thread protection products in the Management estimates the global Writing instruments: range expansion industry.
As a result of these investments in addressable market for our porous Customers are increasingly looking for our manufacturing efficiency, we are even technologies products at around 1.2bn, a total solutions provider from ink better placed to provide our customers with with low to high single-digit growth.
competitively priced products, combined underlying growth rates and key trends with excellent delivery and service levels.
vary depending on the end-market served Key new product opportunities Accordingly, these advances help to ensure and the respective fluidor vapourImproved technologies to further that the business is optimally positioned handling challenge being addressed.
enhance fluidand vapour-handling for a recovery in the oil & gas industry.
capability Printing systems: platform extension Additional technology platforms, Separately, we consolidated our presence and performance improvements to take advantage of new endon the west coast of Canada, with the Customers continue to introduce new market opportunities 2 opening of a new 23,000ft facility in Leduc, platforms, as well as enhance the strategically located in the heart of the performance of their products such Further range expansion Alberta oil patch and accommodating both as through the use of increasingly Investment in faster-growing product our PPT and Components ranges.
end-markets, such as medical distribution centre provides the necessary space to continue the rapid expansion of our Healthcare: infection prevention Continued focus on offering to this important market, where our control, enhanced fluid-handling customer partnerships PPT range includes the Tector Plus series of capabilities and changing customer thread protectors, a heavier closed-end patient needs What we measure product designed specifically to meet the Infection prevention and control is requirements of the Canadian market, increasingly a critical requirement, INNOVATION PERCENTAGE OF SALES providing protection from environmental prompting the development of DERIVED FROM NEW PRODUCTS elements as well as easy handling.
Why we measure it Demonstrates the success of new products 2016 key initiatives Market growth is also partly driven by the and technologies Continued range and geographic migration from slower and more expensive expansion to drive growth laboratory-based testing to results being How we have done opportunities in speciality wipes provided at the point of care.
12.9% of revenue generated from products Further development of antimicrobial launched in the last three years In addition, a globally ageing population is wound care foam and medical resulting in a change in the incidence of components to meet growing need SUSTAINED IP DEVELOPMENT medical conditions such as diabetes which for infection prevention and control Why we measure it require advanced wound care products.
Continued development of intellectual Drive writing instrument nib property to support future growth and conversion of global customer base, Household and personal care: emerging strong development project pipeline leveraging capabilities in fibre, acrylic market growth and lifestyle trends and porous plastics Consumers are increasingly transitioning How we have done to more sophisticated household and Continue to manage PPT cost base Currently 34 2014: 38 patents in force in the personal care products.
In addition, effectively, to contain the financial US, with 10 2014: 10 applications pending insecticide products continue to evolve impact of the ongoing challenging from solvent to water-based systems.
environment in the oil & gas industry CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS Why we measure it Expand further in technical extruded Non-woven products: growing Drives performance of quality systems and plastic profiles, and identify additional requirement for sensitive environments service delivery cross-selling opportunities through Industries such as electronics operate in leveraging the Groups Key Account controlled environments, while others How we have done Management strategy eg, hospitals have a requirement for clean 57 complaints, being a 29.6% decrease room conditions to combat infection and versus 2014 26 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | SPECIALIST TECHNOLOGIES ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM MAN HOURS PER MACHINE HOUR What we measure Practicality and reliability Why we measure it In many end-markets, particularly in Indicative of shop floor productivity SALES PER MACHINE HOUR construction and furniture, the use of Why we measure it plastic is increasingly displacing more How we have done Indicative of business mix and productivity traditional materials such as wood and 1.85 2014: 1.73 man hours per machine hour metal, in a wide variety of applications How we have done from finishing to protection, and 6.0% decrease in sales per machine hour, for interiors and exteriors alike.
Pipe Protection Technologies reflecting the slowdown in the oil & gas industry Regulatory requirements Market trends and sustainability NEW CUSTOMERS ADDED As regulation evolves and sustainability The global oil and gas market is prone to Why we measure it concerns increase, so there is a growing volatility in supply, with the consequent Reflects our ability to successfully target demand for products which use more fluctuations in energy prices having an new growth opportunities , non-PVC impact on the level of drilling activity and raw materials.
How we have done 85 compares to 67 in 2014 Key new product opportunities Evolving oil and gas Continue to invest in high value-added production techniques ON TIME IN FULL tooling and design capabilities, to meet Over the cycle, the significant increase Why we measure it demand for technical and efficient in shale gas and oil will result in the Demonstrates the ability to meet high-end profile solutions and reduce development of more efficient drilling rigs delivery demands lead times and the adoption of new technologies, Actively outsource tools where which benefit suppliers with the ability How we have done appropriate, to provide greater to invest in supporting industry growth.
94.6% compares to 91.0% in 2014 capacity flexibility Industry specification Investigate alternative suppliers and As end-markets become more sophisticated Extrusion or raw materials to meet regulatory and demanding, so the requirement for sustainability requirements and higher quality components increases.
Market trends customer need Over and above this more general trend, customers are increasingly facing regulatory Management estimates the global What we measure guidelines in terms of the specification of addressable market for extruded plastic the components they use.
products at around EUR 400m, with low NEW CUSTOMERS WON FROM to high single-digit growth.
The underlying MADE QUOTES Cost growth rates and key trends vary Why we measure it Continued customer focus on their cost depending on the end-market served and Demonstrates the ability to translate base benefits suppliers with a broad the respective solution being provided.
quotes into revenue-generating product offering across price points and opportunities the ability to invest in more efficient Increased demand for fully-engineered equipment and manufacturing processes.
and rapid solutions How we have done Customers are increasingly seeking more 18% compares to 12% in 2014 Key new product opportunities sophisticated and bespoke solutions to Continue to invest in state-of-the-art their needs, which typically require more WASTE manufacturing capability and further value-added equipment and a more Why we measure it capacity, to meet industry demands technically-educated workforce.
In Drives productivity and the efficient use addition, with solutions required ever more Launch products which are compliant of materials rapidly, the ability to provide prototype with new industry standards tooling for example, through the use of 3D How we have done Leverage new product development printing, as well as to integrate the design 15.5%, an improvement from 16.6% expertise, to provide customers with and manufacturing process, is becoming in 2014 the most comprehensive and more important.
