22 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Operating Review Trading has remained difficult, particularly in performance of the groups asset management operatiNg review Trading review investment banking, where tougher regulation, businesses has remained robust throughout the Total revenues decreased by 1% to 403.4m.
increased compliance costs and significant fines year, and subscription revenues, particularly Underlying revenues, after also adjusting for levied by regulators have led to banks reducing for data and research products, have proved unfavourable event timing differences, decreased headcount and cutting spend on marketing resilient.
Emerging markets, which account for by 2%.
A 1% increase in the first half was and information.
The commodities sector has more than a third of the groups revenues, have followed by a 5% decrease in the second, largely also suffered from oversupply, falling prices proved challenging with increased geopolitical due to weakness in the commodities sector.
In contrast, the risk and weakening currencies.
Underlying change excluding 2015 2014 Headline Underlying timing revenues m m change change differences Subscriptions 210.5 196.8 7% 2% 2% Advertising 48.9 52.2 6% 11% 11% Sponsorship 59.2 56.6 5% 4% 2% Delegates 70.5 71.1 1% 12% 5% Other 12.1 13.3 9% 11% 11% Sold closed businesses 1.6 13.7 Foreign exchange gains on forward contracts 0.6 2.9 total revenue 403.4 406.6 1% 4% 2% Growth in underlying subscriptions partly platform, and the impact of the Dealogic transaction.
In addition, the adjusted operating margin fell offset the declines experienced in advertising by nearly two percentage points as a result of the high marginal profit on declining advertising and and event revenues.
Permanent headcount has fallen by 23 to 2,168 people since September 30 2014 revenues have been increasing at a steady but like many businesses operating in the digital space the group continues to experience increases in rate of 2% for the past two years from a people costs in excess of inflation, particularly in technology, data and research.
combination of new products and a robust Business division review asset management sector.
After first half The research and data division, with its revenues derived predominantly from subscription services, growth of 5%, underlying event revenues held up well during the year.
Financial publishing continued to suffer from the structural and cyclical excluding event timing differences declined by challenges facing global investment banks, while business publishing, which is less advertising 9% in the second half due mainly to weakness dependent, was more robust.
The conferences, seminars and training division had a difficult year in the commodities sector.
Most of the groups after the sharp downturn in energy markets in the second half.
This particularly hit the training larger events have performed well, particularly business which was hit by reductions in training spend both from the energy sector itself as well as in the specialist finance and wholesale telecoms from banks in energy-dependent economies, many of them in emerging markets.
sectors, but this has been more than offset by the weaker performance from smaller events Underlying Adjusted Adjusted and training which traditionally struggle more change operating operating excluding margin margin in difficult markets.
Underlying advertising 2015 2014 Headline Underlying timing 2015 2014 revenues continued to decline as a result of the revenues m m change change differences m m structural and cyclical headwinds which have reduced banks marketing spend, and more Research and data 125.8 120.8 4% 0% 0% 35% 37% recently due to reductions in spend by energy Financial publishing 74.3 75.8 2% 6% 6% 25% 28% companies in response to weak oil prices.
Business publishing 70.0 67.8 3% 0% 0% 35% 34% Conferences, seminars The adjusted operating margin fell from 30% and training 131.1 125.6 4% 7% 2% 25% 27% to 26% as a result of a number of factors Sold closed businesses 1.6 13.7 highlighted at the start of the year, including Foreign exchange gains on forward higher property costs, the full year impact of contracts 0.6 2.9 the groups investment in its Delphi content total revenue 403.4 406.6 1% 4% 2% 26% 30% 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8 Strategic report oPEratIng rEvIEw Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23 research and data: the asset management Conferences, seminars and training: The strength of the US dollar has had a favourable sector remained robust throughout 2015 the 7% decrease in underlying revenues is impact on the translation of overseas profits.
and renewal rates at BCA and NDR remained primarily attributable to the difficult market The average sterling-US dollar rate for the year high.
However, the groups emerging market conditions faced by the groups commoditiesto September 30 was $1.55 2014: $1.66.
This information and data products, CEIC and EMIS, related events, including metals and coal, improved headline revenue growth rates for the which generate a significant proportion of their particularly during the second half.
Even year by approximately three percentage points revenues from local emerging markets as well after adjusting for some unfavourable events and adjusted profit before tax by approximately as the banking sector, fared less well.
As a timing, this commodities weakness more 7m.
Each one cent movement in the US dollar result, underlying revenues for the division were than offset the strength of Institutional rate has an impact on profits on translation of flat.
The adjusted operating margin fell two Investors subscription-based memberships approximately 0.6m on an annualised basis.
percentage points to 35% due to amortisation for the asset management industry which Acquisitions and disposals at BCA for its new Delphi content platform, continued to grow at double digit rates.
The Acquisitions remain an important part of the investment at CEIC in content automation, and adjusted operating margin dropped two groups growth strategy.
In particular the board new product and sales investment at EMIS.
percentage points to 25% reflecting the high believes that acquisitions are valuable for taking margin flow-through from lower delegate the group into new sectors, for bringing new financial publishing: underlying revenues revenues, and investment in e-learning products technologies into the group and for increasing decreased by 6% reflecting continued for Euromoneys training division.
The increase the groups revenues and profits by buying into weakness in the groups financial titles and in headline event revenues reflects the acquisition rapidly growing niche businesses.
The group their dependence on bank advertising.
In of Mining Indaba in July 2014, which achieved continues to look for strategic acquisitions contrast, subscription revenues for the division revenues of more than 9m the first time which will fit well with its existing businesses.
increased, including strong growth from Insider it was run under Euromoney ownership in Equally, where businesses no longer fit, the Publishing, the insurance information business February 2015. group divests.
acquired in 2013, and Euromoney TRADEdata, Currency the groups derivative data business.
The During 2015, the group made three minority The group generates approximately two thirds adjusted operating margin fell three percentage investments in financial technology companies: of both its revenues, including approximately a points to 25% reflecting amortisation for a 15.5% equity stake in Dealogic in December third of its UK revenues, and profit before tax in GlobalCapitals Delphi content platform, and 2014, a 10% equity stake in Estimize in US dollars.
The exposure to US dollar revenues increased technology spend, particularly for July 2015 and a 9.9% interest in Zanbato in in its UK businesses is hedged using forward HedgeFund Intelligence.
The group disposed of its contracts to sell US dollars, which delays the interests in two businesses Capital DATA and business publishing: underlying revenues impact of movements in exchange rates for at Capital NET to Dealogic and four Institutional were flat despite a strong performance from least a year.
However, the group does not hedge Investor newsletter publications.
All three the wholesale telecoms business, TelCap, which the foreign exchange risk on the translation of investments were consistent with the groups was offset by the challenging energy markets overseas profits.
While it endeavours to match strategy of expanding its digital offering into faced by Gulf Publishing.
Despite tougher foreign currency borrowings with investments, workflow and  SaaS metals markets, Metal Bulletins revenues as debt levels have fallen the related foreign solutions for the global investment banking held up well.
The adjusted operating margin currency finance cost has been of only limited and asset management sectors.
Details of all improved from 34% to 35% attributable to the benefit as a hedge against the translation of investments, acquisitions and disposals are set strong performance of TelCap and an improving overseas profits.
out in notes 13 and 14 to the group financial margin for Metal Bulletin following a period of statements.
investment in its steel information service and pricing database.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8 24 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Operating Review continued equity total iNveStmeNt DeScriptioN Date acquireD Stake coNSiDeratioN Leading provider of an SaaS platform for the global capital markets industry.
15.5% 37.8m December 18 2014 Leading provider of a crowdsourcing platform for corporate earnings forecasts.
10% 2.3m July 14 2015 Leading international private capital placements platform and workflow tools provider.
9.9% 3.5m September 29 2015 Dealogic transaction However, with its strong brand and global The migration to the new consolidated office Euromoney acquired a 15.5% equity interest, use among investment banks, Dealogic offers premises and flexible working model in London and 20% of the voting rights, in Dealogic in Euromoney attractive strategic potential.
The was successfully enabled by the operations and December 2014.
This investment was funded Dealogic transaction has significant potential service delivery teams and tools are now in place through the sale to Dealogic of Euromoneys long-term financial upside but, as highlighted to support an increasingly mobile workforce.
interests in two businesses, Capital DATA and at the time of the transaction, in the short-term An example of this was the project to migrate Capital NET, which Dealogic and Euromoney the loss of earnings from the Capital DATA the Institutional Investor Memberships division had operated since the 1980s.
The transaction and Capital NET arrangements have more than from a legacy CRM to Salesforce that went live valued Euromoneys participation in these two offset the groups share of profits from the on time and budget during the summer.
businesses at $85m, for which Euromoney Dealogic associate interest.
Talent attraction and development remain a key received equity in Dealogic valued at $59m, Systems and information technology capability.
The group has an active graduate cash of $5m, and preference shares of $21m Technology remains at the heart of the groups programme linked to a number of universities in which are redeemable in December 2015.
The business with significant investment throughout both the UK and US, supported by a Hackathon transaction generated a gain on sale of 48m the year in the people, products, process, tools at Google.
which has been included in exceptional items.
and infrastructure to support the groups digital and events-based businesses.
It has enabled For the year to September 30 2014, Euromoneys innovative new product development as well subscription revenues and adjusted operating as driven cost efficiencies throughout the value profits included licence fees of 5.4m from chain.
its investment in Capital DATA.
For the same period, Euromoney recognised a profit after tax Project Delphi came to a close at the end of of 0.3m from its 48.4% associate interest in the financial year with new products now live Capital NET.
In financial year 2015, for the three at BCA, Global Capital, Capacity Intelligence months prior to the transaction, Euromoney and HedgeFund Intelligence as well as a new recognised subscription revenues of 1.2m corporate website.
Agile and lean principles from Capital DATA and a profit after tax of have been successfully assimilated into the 0.1m from Capital NET.
For the nine months working culture alongside key technical subsequent to the transaction, Euromoney capabilities in search, authoring, analytics, recognised an adjusted share of profit in data management and continuous integration.
As well as Over 75 digital projects have been successfully reducing the groups adjusted operating margin delivered across the group by a function that by one percentage point, the transaction now accounts for nearly 10% of the groups diluted Euromoneys 2015 adjusted after-tax total workforce.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8 Strategic report oPEratIng rEvIEw Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25 Increasingly, customers want to access and Marketing and digital development pay for the groups products and services The group continues to invest in digital BCA in different ways.
The group has started to development, especially customer engagement build new digital billing and subscription and product innovation.
management capabilities to replace existing Research The groups digital success is reflected in its legacy technology and processes.
The goals engagement metrics with now more than 100 are: to remove friction in a customer journey businesses active on social media.
The groups from registering for a trial and logging-in to social media connections have increased 38% buying, renewing and upgrading subscriptions: year on year, and the group has more than BCA Research has to improve the efficiency and manual processes 700,000 members across major social platforms, continued to innovate its for nurturing of sales leads: and, to standardise such as LinkedIn and Twitter.
The group has and automate sales and business reporting.
product offerings both also developed a more integrated approach This will increase flexibility to test new products, in terms of content and to content marketing in both publishing and prices and bundles in order to add more value digital solutions and events businesses.
This combines multi-media for customers.
launched during the year: and agenda-led content with speaker, sponsor The group continues to invest in EDEN, the and attendee interaction throughout the year.
groups marketing database, which has in The company has accelerated the roll-out of excess of two million active names.
The BCA Edge enables users quickly new subscription-based digital products: BCA customer insight team provides more in-depth to discover and integrate research Research launched BCA Analytics and BCA analysis of customer usage behaviour, renewal content into their investment Edge using the new Delphi digital platform: cycles, web usage, demographics, helping to workflows.
It is an investment TelCap launched Capacity Intelligence, an online identify opportunities for cross-selling and new research platform that leverages database providing proprietary information customer opportunities.
the Delphi technology stack to on telecoms companies, M&A activity and semantically deconstruct BCAs Headcount partnership data: HedgeFund Intelligence research and analysis and overlays this The number of people employed is monitored recently relaunched its platform, which includes with a set of client-requested tools monthly to ensure there are sufficient resources the worlds most sophisticated relationship and applications.
to meet the forthcoming demands of each database of hedge fund performance: CEIC business and to make sure that the businesses BCA Indicators module is the first data launched an online China Discovery product continue to deliver sustainable profits.
product to integrate BCAs marketthat provides actionable insights on Chinas During 2015 the directors have focused on leading proprietary indicators into markets: EMIS launched a Thought Leadership maintaining headcount at a similar level to client models and systems.
product which creates thought-provoking that in 2014, hiring new heads only where it content for global business leaders: Metal BCA Research is working with was considered essential or for investment Bulletin launched Copper Price Briefing to Estimize to build a set of innovative purposes.
Headcount has fallen by 23 since provide crucial information for the copper features and products that deliver September 2014 to 2,168, mainly attributable market: and Trade Finance relaunched its insights and predictions on individual to 23 leavers from the disposal of the four product to provide customers with an improved company earnings and revenue and Institutional Investor newsletter publications database and customer experience.
and closure of Euromoney Yearbooks.
continues to invest in product training by offering best practice tools and techniques to individual businesses and participating in intracompany product management workshops run by DMGT.
