Strategic report OPERATIONAL REVIEW RETAIL REVENUE REVENUE INCREASE SHARE OF TOTAL REVENUE 1 1,000.7m 5.9% 76% At the year end our Retail division comprised 466 destination pubs and restaurants and 594 segmented local pubs across Britain, appealing to a broad range of the population.
HIGHLIGHTS OF OUR YEAR AVERAGE WEEKLY SALES OPERATING PROFIT NET PROMOTER SCORES FACEBOOK FOLLOWERS 1 2.3% 3.6% 12.3% 64% to 18,100 1.
Variances shown on an adjusted 52 week basis.
M anaging constant change in customer perceptions year of growth in Greene King Retail.
Total Retail revenue grew by 5.9%, of value, service and quality 2 outperforming the market, which grew by 4.9% over a comparable In terms of value, we re-launched and expanded our known value period.
LFL sales were affected by a item KVI strategy across Hungry Horse, Meet & Eat and Flame Grill disappointing World Cup in the first half, tougher comparatives in offering customers enhanced value at 80% more sites than the previous the second half and the impact of the new drink driving legislation year.
In OEI, both leisure and corporate customers were able to take in Scotland from December.
advantage of our great-value breaks, while in Farmhouse Inns we introduced a Carvery Baps lunch offer for 3.95 and a new Room sales achieved the best LFL sales growth while LFL sales in breakfast menu with generosity at its core.
drink and food performed broadly similarly.
Our best performing brands and formats were Metropolitan, our premium London estate, On service, initiatives such as enhanced menu training programmes Farmhouse Inns, our growing carvery brand, core Local pubs and OEI.
and menu simplification helped to improve our average Net Promoter Scores by 12.3%.
In Farmhouse Inns, we reconfigured the carvery We exceeded 1bn of total Retail revenue for the first time and this layout to reduce queue times by over 60%, while in Hungry Horse was up 5.9%, or 55.9m, on the previous year.
Both Retail divisions, weintroduced pagers to proactively manage peak trading Local Pubs and Destination Pubs, enjoyed growth in the year and customerrequirements.
the average weekly sales per pub across Retail grew 2.3% to 18,100.
Operating profit was up 3.6% to 190.8m while the operating margin On quality, we expanded the fresh supply chain in our Premium was down 40bps, having been down 80bps in the first half.
The margin Locals format, which was subsequently recognised with the award decline was due to the dilutive effect of lower sales growth and of best pub menu by Restaurant Magazine, while we were proud increased labour investment, partly offset by cost savings and tosee Flame Grill announced as the winner of the National Fish amore benign cost environment.
Our ongoing progress in Retail is driven by a number of key factors, 1.
all predicated on putting customers at the heart of our business, 2.
offering them experiences to remember and ensuring their time andmoney are well spent.
Annual report 2015 GREENE KING PLC 19 Strategic report OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED RETAIL CONTINUED Serving coffee in a Hungry Horse.
A Crabacado burger in a Metropolitan pub.
Staying close to our customers 5.
Emplo ying and developing the best-trained and most motivated people in the sector We have identified a number of ongoing and emerging consumer trends including all-day eating out and inter-generational eating out occasions.
Our people are fundamental to the success of our business and we continued to grow our own talent with the launch of initiatives such Daytime Retail sales grew 8% following an expansion of the as a bespoke apprenticeship scheme in Loch Fyne Seafood & Grill breakfast offer in Hungry Horse, the introduction of Afternoon Tea and the introduction of a coffee diploma for all team members in in Farmhouse Inns, new lighter snacks such as chocolate-coated Hungry Horse.
The impact of our people initiatives is evident in a popcorn and a salt-beef sandwich, and a new weekend brunch offer 13.4% reduction in team turnover across Retail and improvements in Loch Fyne Seafood & Grill, which recognises the brands Scottish across our annual employee engagement survey.
Now that we have heritage by including meals such as the full Scottish, and has led completed the acquisition of Spirit, we employ over 40,000 people, toa 76% increase in weekly sales from 7.00am to 11.00am.
We take the responsibility of employing and developing so many young people seriously and will look We continue to promote family dining in our sites, with the roll-out tofurther increase investment in our people going forward.
of our Golden Years offers to further brands across the estate and the introduction of sharing tables and zones designed to enhance 6.
Continuing industry-leading asset investment sharing occasions in selected new sites.
We also introduced a new We lead the industry in terms of investing in our existing estate and ice cream offer for families in Farmhouse Inns to complement additions to our estate.
Our investment in repairing, maintaining and oursuccessful Cakeaway offer.
improving the quality of our existing estate rose 5.5% to 79.3m, while we opened 26 sites and transferred in six sites from Pub Partners 3.
Expanding our digital platform in the year helping to take the estate to 1,060 sites at the year end.
For the increasingly connected consumer, we further extended our We spent 75.9m on acquiring and developing these sites.
Our expansion digital capability, getting closer to our customers by increasing the programme slowed in the year as resources were diverted to important channels through which we engage with them.
Digital initiatives M&A activity, while, following the acquisition of Spirits 1,207 sites, included the Golden Ticket data capture project in Hungry Horse, we expect to open around 15 additional high quality new sites in the with 115,000 customers signing up through a monthly prize draw 2016 financial year.
We also expect to sell a similar number of non-core towin 100 golden tickets, and the development of our OEI Retail sites, on top of the agreed CMA disposals.
accommodation website to engage more customers on the move.
Wealso introduced an app-based platform to capture live feedback from field-based employees.
Overall, traffic to our websites grew by20%, the number of loyalty card holders grew by 17% andthenumber of Facebook followers grew by 64%.
Gr owing our branded retail presence in the eating and drinking out markets All our pubs are branded, utilising at least one of the pub name, aformat or retail brand name, or Greene King.
We are focused on growing our retail branding and at the year end we had 763 sites with a retail brand or format, against 710 12 months earlier.
Our leading brands and formats by number of sites are Hungry Horse, with 241 sites at the year end, Meet & Eat 182 sites and OEI 115sites.
The brands receiving the most expansion investment areHungry Horse and Farmhouse Inns.
20 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015
