STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY OPERATIONAL REVIEW This was another year of strong Retail A YEAR OF STRATEGIC performance, driven by PROGRESS, STRONG SALES our actions to improve the product and service GROWTH AND IMPROVED offer.
how were beginning to build a significantly enhanced Retail customer experience.
programme and the Boardman Bikes acquisition.
Total Group Revenue The repositioning of Halfords Retail Group inventory levels were reduced marginally, to offer an enhanced customer Divisional Sales % despite the addition of Boardman Bikes and experience is now well under way, Retail 85.4% continued strong Retail sales growth.
Net debt at with significant steps taken during Autocentres 14.6% the end of the year was down 37.8m at 61.8m, the year.
with a non-lease-adjusted net debt: EBITDA 52 week ratio of 0.6:1 versus 1.0:1 in the prior year.
This has resulted in a strong sales performance, particularly in Cycling and Car Maintenance, The Board has recommended a final dividend of as well as further improvements in customer 11.0 pence per share FY14: 9.1 pence which, feedback scores.
Under new leadership, if approved, would take the full-year dividend Autocentres has a clear strategy centred on to 16.5 pence per share.
If approved, the final building trust, and the early signs are encouraging, dividend will be paid on 28 August 2015 to including an improved sales performance through shareholders on the register at the close of the year.
There is plenty more to do and FY16 will business on 7 August 2015.
The Board continues be the busiest year of investment activity under to look to maintain a c. 2x dividend cover over the our Getting Into Gear Retail plan.
medium-term, growing full-year dividends broadly in line with earnings per share growth.
Based on All reference to FY15 performance in this review is the proposed final dividend, the ratio of interim in respect of the proforma 52 weeks to 27 March and final dividend payments has moved in line Retail Categories % 2015, unless otherwise stated.
Cycling 34.4% SUMMARY OF GROUP RESULTS OPERATIONAL REVIEW: RETAIL Sales of 1,004.9m were up 6.9%, with likeCar Maintenance 32.2% Halfords Retail produced another year of strong for-like LFL revenue growth of 6.8%.
Group Car Enhancement 21.6% sales performance with sales up 6.8% to 857.9m.
gross margin fell by 40 basis points to 53.2%.
LFL growth of 7.0% and online growth of 14.3% Total operating costs rose by 5.7% primarily as Travel Solutions 11.8% reflected the improvements made in the range of a result of the strong sales volumes, the logistics products and brands available, customer-centric transition and investments made in key areas offers, colleague engagement, and training.
Investment in the expansion of Weather conditions were favourable for Cycling Autocentres continued as the business added during the summer and for Car Maintenance nine centres with seven closures, making a net during the fourth quarter but the main driver of the addition of two and in Retail we opened four better performance has been the actions taken Cycle Republic shops.
Cycling was the Group earnings before non-recurring items, highest growth category with sales up 11.4% and finance costs, depreciation and amortisation continues to be the largest element of Retail sales.
Group However, FY15s performance was more broadearnings before finance costs, tax and nonbased with Car Maintenance sales up 8.5% and recurring items EBIT were 84.6m, which Travel Solutions sales increasing by 5.4%.
compares with 77.8m in the prior year.
Profit Within Cycling, all elements were in growth.
before tax and non-recurring items was 81.1m Premium Bikes was the standout performer with and earnings per share before non-recurring items LFL growth of 24.9%, following growth of 29.9% were 32.7p, up 11.4% and 13.8% respectively.
Childrens Bikes sales were The cash flow performance was robust with also strong with 13.3% growth, particularly driven increased operating cash flows more than by older childrens bikes, with sales up 40.5% due offsetting the impact of our capital expenditure to an enhanced range and a successful Does Getting Into Gear 12 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION STRATEGY Anything Beat a Bike?
Christmas marketing opened in recent years and the balance due to pay and oil in its centres and running a consistent campaign.
Representing approximately one half rises, enhanced training and investments in supporting Halfords 5-point winter checks campaign in stores of premium-cycle sales, Cycle-To-Work revenues functions.
Trust Pilot is used as a measure of grew by 15.4%.
Sales of Parts, Accessories and monitoring the service improvements and as of Nine new Autocentres were opened and seven Clothing PACs grew by 8%, which was lower May 2015 this had increased significantly to around were closed, taking the total number of Autocentres than we would have liked: it remains an opportunity 8.5 out of 10.
The early signs are encouraging but locations to 305 at the end of the year.
10-15 new that we are well-positioned and determined to there remains much to be done.
centres will be opened in the year ahead and subtake.
Shortly after the end of the year we launched optimal centres will continue to be closed as a matter COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT a range of Boardman clothing.
Cycle Repair sales We continue to take steps to increase our of course.
were up 17.8% with second-half sales up 27.3%, community engagement and have set out our helped by the roll-out of the new operating model, HALFORDS BUSINESS REVIEW progress in a number of case studies throughout which is now in over 400 stores.
The strong performance of Car Maintenance Halfords mission is to Help and Inspire CURRENT ACTIVITY products and services was primarily driven by Parts Customers With Their Life on the Move within the The year ahead will be a busy one, both for and Workshop.
The sale and fitting of bulbs, wiper following categories: Supporting Drivers of Every product developments and further progress under blades and batteries 3Bs again represented Car, Inspiring Cyclists of Every Age and Equipping the strategic plans in Retail and Autocentres.
the largest single element of the category and the Families for their Leisure Time.
fitting of these parts grew by 13.6%.
Just before In Retail there will be new bike ranges, including Equipping Families for their Leisure Time gives the Christmas the number of 3B fitting jobs exceeded VooDoo in June, a childrens range in the autumn flexibility to extend the range, introduce innovative 100,000 in a single week for the first time and the and Boardman in the fourth quarter, as well as products and leverage space.
However, the vast week between Christmas and New Year saw the filling gaps within ranges, including the introduction majority of managements focus is currently on highest ever sales of both batteries and blades, of several premium womens bikes.
During the year, Supporting Drivers of Every Car and Inspiring helped by the 3-Gears training programme, which we will also re-lay our cycling departments, at the Cyclists of Every Age as these markets are means we have more multi-skilled colleagues in same time rationalising the range and refreshing the significant and, with strong execution, management our stores.
Workshop sales were aided by the very merchandising.
Cycling department colleagues will anticipates sustainable opportunities for growth.
successful Halfords Advanced 200-piece socket receive a face-to-face training course throughout set, complete with lifetime guarantee.
The Retail strategy, Getting Into Gear, is based the summer, aimed at further equipping colleagues with the capability to sell customers the right bike on the following five elements designed to Car Enhancement LFL revenues decreased by significantly enhance the customer experience: and the right accessories.
Sat Nav and Audio sales continued to reflect also be new product launches, including tool sets, structurally declining markets, but Car Cleaning 1.
Service Revolution up-skilling colleagues in-car connectivity solutions and an extended revenues grew by 12.6%, boosted by new gifting capability to bring about a step change in range of in-car dash cams.
Merchandising ranges and a focus on brands of choice.
customer service enhancements, including a wider roll-out of 2.
The H Factor reasserting the business electronic vehicle registration look up screens and Travel Solutions LFL revenues increased by proposition authority to Support Drivers of enhanced 3B displays, making product selection 5.4%, driven by Travel Equipment, due to Every Car, Inspire Cyclists of Every Age and simpler, will also be implemented.
strong product and promotion offers, and Child Equip Families for Their Leisure Time Car Seats, with the investment in training resulting Also within Retail is the launch of a marketplace in a significant increase in the number of our 3.
Stores Fit to Shop investing to raise initiative online.
This enables Halfords customers accredited car seat fitters.
the Halfords store estate to a standard the to access thousands of additional Auto and business is proud of Cycling products through Halfords.
These Online Retail revenues grew by 14.3% and st 4.
21 Century Infrastructure providing products are delivered direct from the vendor to the represented 12.2% of total Retail sales FY14: systems and infrastructure to support customer, without Halfords needing to hold 11.3%.
The growth was aided by the continual increasing service and sales levels the inventory.
developments and enhancements being made to the online proposition, as well as an increased 5.
Click with the Digital Future creating a In Autocentres we remain committed to new extended range, with customers now able to service-led, modern digital proposition centre openings, with 10-15 planned for the year, access around 160,000 products online.
The On pages 14 and 15 we have set out our along with the commencement of a roll-out across importance of our store network and service progress on these five priorities.
the wider estate of the low-cost but high-impact overlay is highlighted by the strength of Click & learnings from the Croydon concept centre trial.
AUTOCENTRES Collect, with over 90% of orders picked up in store.
In addition, productivity, utilisation and customer A refreshed Autocentres strategy was launched retention are focus areas.
Total in-store service income increased to 26.7m, in the year under new leadership, with a focus with the majority of revenues flowing from 3Bs on building trust with our customers.
Trust in the And the best until last: on behalf of the Board I fitting and Cycle Repair.
automotive service and repair sector is key to would like to thank all colleagues for their fantastic attracting and retaining customers.
Investment OPERATIONAL REVIEW: AUTOCENTRES contribution, support and commitment to the further during the year was focused on new centre progress and strong performance made in Halfords Total Autocentres revenues were up 7.6% and, on an openings, including a new concept trial in Croydon, LFL basis, up 5.3%, improving during the year from this year.
It has been a pleasure to work with you and technology, including the latest diagnostic over the past year.
I would also like to welcome Jill 4.3% in the first quarter to 6.6% in the final quarter.
equipment to keep Autocentres at the forefront of Gross margin reduced by 109 basis points in the McDonald, our new CEO, and we all look forward to capability and also a mobile-optimised website with working with her in the years ahead.
year due to the tyre sales mix.
Core Service, MOT online booking capability.
The plan also includes and Repair margins were marginally up in the year.
Dennis Millard closer working with the Retail stores.
During the Operating costs increased by 6.7%, with the vast Chairman year Autocentres started using Halfords batteries majority of the increase coming from new centres 4 June 2015 STOCK CODE: HFD 13 halfords.
