16 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT Operational review Having been listed on the FTSE4Good social responsibility OVERVIEW benchmark index since 2012, we were, for the first time, ranked Interserve serves the needs of its broad client-base by providing in Business in the Communitys annual benchmark of responsible integrated outsourcing and construction services.
The value of business, the Corporate Responsibility Index, highlighting the our services is founded on the skills and ingenuity of our people, strides the business has made in integrating responsible business and so we invest extensively in the development and training practices at all levels.
of our 80,000 strong team to ensure we continue to retain and attract the right people.
We apply our collective knowledge and We segment our results into three main areas - Support experience to meet our customers needs and develop lasting, Services, Construction and Equipment Services - all of which long-term relationships.
are supported by central Group Services.
We made good progress during 2015 in markets that offered SUPPORT SERVICES both opportunities and challenges.
We delivered volume growth Support Services focuses on the management and delivery of across the board, and growth in headline earnings per share operational services to both public and private-sector clients in of 15 per cent, with strong profit performances in our Support the UK and internationally.
Services UK and International, International Construction and Equipment Services businesses and a break-even result in Results summary 2015 2014 Change UK Construction.
Revenue We continued to invest in building our future capacity, in UK 1,834.4m 1,679.9m 9% terms of both our physical infrastructure and the culture that 1 International 224.3m 157.2m 43% differentiates our business: our people, innovation and shared Contribution to 100.4m 88.8m 13% best practice and insight.
total operating profit SustainAbilities, our broad-based growth plan, shapes every UK 92.2m 81.4m 13% aspect of how we operate.
The core of the plan recognises 1 International 8.2m 7.4m 11% that sustainable business success and shareholder value are Operating margin dependent on a broad range of factors: the strength of our UK 5.0% 4.8% reputation, the relationships we have with our customers and 2 communities, how we manage risk and conduct our operations.
International 4.1% 4.8% Our focus on sustainability generates positive outcomes over 3 Future workload both the near and long term: it helps us reduce waste, minimise UK 5.6bn 6.2bn consumption, invest in skills, manage risk and give confidence 1 International 0.3bn 0.3bn to customers.
Our commitment to making positive contributions in natural, social and knowledge capital, while continuing to 1 Including share of associates.
deliver an excellent financial performance, is an important 2 Operating margin is calculated based on the underlying operating margin of differentiator with customers, investors, our people and our associates and the reported operating margin of subsidiaries.
3 Future workload comprises forward orders and pipeline.
Forward orders are those for which we have secured contracts in place and pipeline covers contracts for which we are in bilateral negotiations and on which final terms are being agreed.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 17 WE MADE GOOD PROGRESS DURING 2015 IN MARKETS THAT OFFERED BOTH OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES, DELIVERING VOLUME GROWTH ACROSS THE BOARD.
ADRIAN RINGROSE CHIEF EXECUTIVE Operationally, our public-sector business evolved significantly in UK the period, reflecting a number of developments that occurred Support Services UK continued to perform well, achieving in 2014.
Our defence portfolio was scaled down following the revenue growth of 9 per cent and a further improvement in loss in 2014 of the South East Regional Prime contract.
Winning the operating margin to 5.0 per cent.
We also made further a considerably re-scoped services contract for the MoDs strategic progress on a number of fronts, broadening our National Training Estate NTE contract was a key achievement offering in front-line services and expanding our portfolio of in the year in which our sustainability credentials played a large private-sector clients.
As anticipated, the General Election led part in our retention of this longstanding contract.
This was to a temporary hiatus in public-sector outsourcing opportunities, demonstrated by our success in winning the Energy Institutes which is reflected in the reduction in our future workload in this Energy Excellence award for helping our client, the Defence business.
Near-term visibility remains strong, however, and the Infrastructure Organisation, cut carbon emissions and energy pipeline of bidding opportunities is building encouragingly.
spending across the UK defence estate.
We strengthened our significant presence in the UK transport We remain one of the MoDs largest and enduring infrastructure sector by securing contract extensions with Govia, London partners, managing, in addition to NTE, services at Welbeck Underground and Network Rail.
Defence Sixth Form College, the Defence Communications Services Agency and the Permanent Joint Overseas Bases We also made good progress in the retail sector adding new Falklands, Ascension, Cyprus and Gibraltar.
clients including New Look and Superdrug as well as the Bicester Village shopping outlet and shopping centres in Telford and Some 5,000 of our colleagues are involved in the delivery of Redhill.
We also secured a three-year, 35 million extension front-line services direct to the citizen, wherein we generate with B&Q, doubling the scale of the cleaning service and adding annualised revenues of c250 million in the learning and catering at around a quarter of the estate and extended our employment, healthcare and justice sectors.
During the year relationship with Debenhams, for whom we have delivered we successfully mobilised important new contracts to provide facilities services to their UK stores and offices for over probation and rehabilitation services for low and medium- 25 years.
risk offenders in five areas of England Cheshire and Greater Manchester: Hampshire and the Isle of Wight: Humberside, We also mobilised our contract with Sony Europe to manage Lincolnshire and North Yorkshire: Merseyside: and West the companys estate, which includes offices, research and Yorkshire as part of the Ministry of Justices Transforming development sites and retail stores, in 27 countries.
Working in partnership with the National Probation Service and local charities, we are As noted above, the pace of public-sector procurement of new responsible for supporting and rehabilitating around 40,000 contracts slowed somewhat but, encouragingly, are now starting offenders each year.
to see an increased level of bidding, as procurement activity increases in response to continued public-spending pressures.
Our healthcare business, which provides care in the home for During the year we secured new work with Brighton and Hove high acuity patients, is well placed to grow in 2016, while our City Council and secured a contract extension with Slough learning and employment unit, which is one of the largest Borough Council.
providers to the Department of Work and Pensions Work Programme, providing support and training to help the longterm unemployed back into work, supported customers into over 16,000 jobs during the year.
18 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT Operational review continued As a significant delivery partner for our clients we play an important role in helping them achieve their operational goals.
We used our expertise in energy management to help the EXPERTISE Home Office achieve a 27 per cent reduction in greenhouse gases against its 2009-10 baseline, IN ENERGY exceeding the 25 per cent government-set target.
This was primarily achieved by estate consolidations and the introduction of energyMANAGEMENT saving measures across the estate managed by Interserve.
We see further opportunities to link areas of our skills, We also secured a seawater treatment works contract with education and justice businesses and are now able to bid Veolia Water and a maintenance support contract with Dolphin for new work with a strong combined offer around skills Energy in the UAE.
Our FM businesses won contracts with and employability services aimed at groups with challenging new clients including: the Abu Dhabi Equestrian Club: the behaviours or those who are excluded or disadvantaged.
Environment Agency of Abu Dhabi: Tecom Properties in Dubai: We believe that these joined-up capabilities will prove and secured further work in Qatar with IKEA and education increasingly attractive as the direction of policy moves provider GEMS International.
towards more integrated and potentially devolved publicWe mobilised our first FM contracts in Saudi Arabia for services service commissioning.
at the Information Technology and Communications Complex ITCC and at the prestigious King Abdullah Financial District International in Riyadh for the Al Raidah Investment Company.
Internationally we provide outsourced services in sectors such as hospitality, leisure, education, defence, retail and oil and gas The acquisition in 2014 of esg included three new contracts across the Middle East region.
for the provision of education in Saudi Arabia under the governments Colleges of Excellence programme.
Our role under A mix of contract wins and increasing volumes with existing these contracts is to deliver a modern curriculum to enhance customers resulted in strong revenue growth and a 11 per cent the employability of young Saudi men and women.
Demand rise in operating profit to 8.2 million.
potential for such activity is significant and we look forward to developing our presence in this market over the coming years.
Highlights during the period included winning fuel pipeline construction and installation contracts with BP Khazzan, Gulf In recent years we have developed greater reach and capability Petrochemicals Services Company and RasGas, as well as a across the oil and gas services sector in the region, offering contract to provide technical support to Qatar Shell GTL.
customers pan-regional, as well as national services and enhancing our operational efficiency by more effectively leveraging our scale.
An example of this is a recent oil and gas REDUCED RELATIVE CARBON EMISSIONS services contract with Petrofac in Oman, having initially worked TONNES CO e BY for this client solely in the UAE.
2 19.7% VS 2013 BASELINE OVERVIEW S S S ST T T TR R R RA A A AT T T TE E E EG G G GIIIIC C C C R R R RE E E EP P P PO O O OR R R RT T T T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 19 Interserve has started work on the new 200 million Defence BUILDING and National Rehabilitation Centre DNRC at Stanford Hall, near Loughborough.
FACILITIES FOR The project, for BS Stanford Ltd, involves the construction of THE UK MILITARY a new 37,000 square metre specialist clinical facility together with the alteration and refurbishment of the Grade II listed Stanford Hall, an Art Deco Theatre and other ancillary listed buildings as well as extensive landscaping work.
The new clinical rehabilitation centre for the armed forces will improve and advance treatments already provided for injured service-men and women and will provide immediate access to on-site patient diagnosis and treatment plans, support significant advances in medical research and offer extensive outdoor facilities to benefit the early stages of rehabilitation.
The new facility is due to be operational in 2018.
20 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW As part of our seven-year contract with the Ministry of Justice MoJ to provide probation and rehabilitation services for low and medium-risk offenders, we HELPING OFFENDERS introduced through-the-gate services to help offenders reintegrate into society.
REINTEGRATE We provide specialist support for those dealing with issues such as substance abuse, homelessness and INTO SOCIETY debt management, as well as providing offenders with education and employability services from the final weeks in prison through to release and resettlement into the community.
Since we started mobilising the contracts in February 2015, our 2,000 probation staff have managed services for some 40,000 low-to-medium risk offenders in Cheshire and Greater Manchester: Hampshire and the Isle of Wight: Humberside, Lincolnshire and North Yorkshire: Merseyside and West Yorkshire.
We operate these contracts under Purple Futures, an Interserve-led partnership, which includes the charities Shelter and P3 and the social enterprise 3SC.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPERATIONAL REVIEW INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 21 In partnership with Business in the Community and Asda we launched the arc social enterprise support programme in Yorkshire, which aims to create social value, and specifically 1,000 jobs, in the region.
SUPPORTING Our capacity to leverage many of our operational activities in Yorkshire was a SOCIAL significant factor behind choosing this region to launch the scheme.
We ran a successful pilot scheme in 2015 and believe we can continue ENTERPRISES to give social entrepreneurs free access to tailored, practical support from within the business to help grow their businesses and create employment opportunities.
CONSTRUCTION UK We offer design, development, consultancy and construction Market demand continued to strengthen in the period, services to create whole-life, sustainable solutions for building particularly in fit-out and regional building, reflected in and infrastructure projects.
Our focus is on forming longour revenue growth of 7 per cent.
However, as previously term relationships and delivering repeat business through highlighted, supply-chain pricing pressures continued to be felt commercial structures such as framework agreements and and the divisions performance was adversely impacted by three project-financed schemes.
Our presence in the Middle East in UAE, Qatar and Oman is Notwithstanding the particular challenges outlined above, structured through longstanding joint-venture partnerships, we remain confident in our operating model, which blends our enabling us to form enduring relationships with clients and to strong regional business with public-sector and infrastructure combine our international experience with our partners local frameworks, along with our growing presence in the commercial knowledge to deliver outstanding service.
Work winning in the period was strong, leading to further Results summary 2015 2014 Change growth in our future workload to 1.6 billion 2014: 1.4 billion.
Revenue Our regional building business was particularly successful, UK 1,040.8m 970.7m 7% winning a number of new contracts in our core sectors of health, 1 International 279.0m 207.9m 34% education and defence, while Paragon, our specialist fit-out Contribution to 13.1m 26.2m -50% and refurbishment business, continued to thrive, building on total operating profit its longstanding reputation for delivering high-end projects and benefitting from a buoyant market and access to the wider client UK 0.1m 15.4m base served by other Group businesses.
1 International 13.0m 10.8m 20% Operating margin Our credentials in building facilities for the defence sector - UK 0.0% 1.6% were reinforced through new awards, including the prestigious 2 200 million Defence and National Rehabilitation Centre at - International 4.3% 4.7% Stanford Hall.
We also won contracts to revamp Sandhursts Future workload Grade II listed Royal Military Academy and MoD training facilities UK 1.6bn 1.4bn in south-west Scotland as part of the UK governments defence 1 International 0.3bn 0.3bn construction framework.
2 Operating margin is calculated based on the underlying operating margin of associates.
REDUCED CONSTRUCTION WASTE BY 21% ACROSS OUR GLOBAL OPERATIONS 22 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT Operational review continued In education, we were selected to build facilities for the During the year we spent roughly half of our total supply-chain universities of Durham, Edinburgh, York and Hull and reached costs with companies local to our construction projects, with financial close on the contract to build seven secondary 81 per cent of these orders placed with small and mediumschools across Hertfordshire, Luton and Reading.
We are also working with our major suppliers to standardise the materials procured through our existing Significant wins in the health sector included a 35 million supply-chain partners to help us further influence outcomes contract to design and build a new clinical facility for related to carbon use, waste reduction we, ourselves, cut UK Birmingham Childrens Hospital and a contract to build a new construction waste by 31 per cent during the year, the use 43.3 million A&E department at the Leicester Royal Infirmary.
of recycled content and ethical sourcing issues which are increasingly important to our clients.
Paragon delivered an excellent performance, growing revenue by 28 per cent as it won fit-out work from existing clients We showcased our ability to design and build high-tech, served by our FM business, including Boots, Socit Gnrale innovative projects during the year through the high-energy and Bourne Capital.
Paragon won 106 million of new work proton beam cancer therapy facility for The Christie NHS overall, including contracts to fit out premises for clients Foundation Trust in Manchester.
Having worked closely with including Colt, Blackrock and Hammerson.
The Christie a long-standing client from the projects inception to develop this groundbreaking project, we expect An increasingly important differentiating factor in winning to complete our work in 2018.
We also completed work on the new work is our commitment to make a positive economic UKs first fully reconfigurable research and assembly plant.
and social impact in the communities in which we deliver our Factory 2050, which is part of the University of Sheffields projects.
Our Social Value Mapping Tool which we developed Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre, can be easily jointly with Groundwork and Social Enterprise UK, helps us altered to switch between different tasks and reconfigured target and track our supply-chain spend, where we seek to for future changes of use.
The Social Value Mapping Tool combines publicly available data on employment levels, Digital modelling of our construction projects is increasingly demographics, health, crime, education and poverty with important both in terms of assuring design and building our operational data on contracts, people and procurement, processes and also in predicting cost in use of a building over which has helped us target our activity to address the needs of its life.
We have been developing our capability in this respect specific regions to best effect.
for some time and are the first among our peers to be certified The Khansaheb Training Centre in Dubai run by our UAE business, which runs a full trades training curriculum taught by Construction Industry Training TRAINING & Board qualified tutors, delivered over 65,000 training days in 2015.
The centre trains 160 employees per month, on a 12-day structured curriculum for DEVELOPMENT each trade.
Over 1,700 of our people have already benefitted.
The curriculum covers key site skills, such IN THE as masonry, block-laying, plastering, tiling and paving, steel fixing, carpentry and supervisory skills.
Health and safety is also a critical component of the training, MIDDLE EAST which includes demonstrated, practical tutorials.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 23 In Oman, contract wins included work on a new power plant for SEPCO: the extension of a desalination plant for Osmoflo INCREASED NUMBER OF APPRENTICES, and office fit-out work for BP.
TRAINEES AND GRADUATES ON PROGRAMME BY As the Middle East market matures, Interserve remains committed to driving standards forward, particularly in the 49% training and development of our people.
We achieved a number of significant advances in terms of improving the skills and employability of the local workforce in 2015, safeguarding workers rights and addressing the environmental and cost as Building Information Modelling BIM Level 2 compliant challenges of resource use in the region, all of which are under the BRE Global Business Systems Certification Scheme, closely aligned with our SustainAbilities agenda.
reinforcing our commitment to achieving faster delivery, lower costs, reduced risk, enhanced sustainability and an improved For example, our recently-opened training centre in Dubai, whole-life performance of buildings for our clients.
which runs a full trades training curriculum taught by Construction Industry Training Board qualified tutors, delivered International over 65,000 training days in 2015. International Construction continued to gain momentum in improving, albeit highly competitive, markets stimulated by Other highlights in the year included winning the Emirates development plans such as Qatars Vision 2030, the UAEs Green Building Council award for introducing Bionest plans for Expo 2020 and the ongoing need for infrastructure technology, which allows waste water to be re-used, into the development to keep pace with rapid population growth in Middle East market.
We also installed a further 22 Bionest the region.
plants at sites across the region.
Contribution to operating profit in our associate businesses EQUIPMENT SERVICES rose by 20 per cent to 13.0 million 2014: 10.8 million, driven Equipment Services operates globally, designing, hiring by a strong increase in volume, albeit at slightly lower margins and selling formwork and falsework solutions for use in of 4.3 per cent 2014: 4.7 per cent.
Future workload remained infrastructure and building projects.
Our activities have a stable at 0.3 billion 2014: 0.3 billion.
broad geographic spread, the mix of which can change quickly, hence we manage our equipment fleet globally, combining our Key contract wins included work for the Dubai International scale and expertise with agility and responsiveness to meet Convention and Exhibition Centre to expand the citys World customers needs and safeguard our operational efficiency.
Trade Centre: a new residential community on the Palm Jumeirah Island and an executive jet terminal at Al Maktoum Results summary 2015 2014 Change International Airport for Dubai Aviation City Corporation.
Revenue 211.0m 195.5m 8% We also successfully completed one of our most technically challenging projects, the 110 million extension of Dubais Mall Contribution to 41.9m 26.6m 58% of the Emirates, which involved the construction of 42,000 total operating profit square metres of new premium shopping, entertainment and Operating margin 19.9% 13.6% dining space above the existing live mall.
The extension, which was completed with no disruption to trading in the stores Performance in the period was excellent: volume growth below, opened on schedule towards the end of the year.
achieved over a number of recent years continued, enabled by sustained investment in our fleet and an expansion in our In Qatar we won contracts to undertake civil engineering and geographical footprint, driving the margin in this operationally building work on 14 sub-stations for Siemens as well as work geared business up by 63 basis points and increasing profit by on the expansion of the Doha West sewage treatment plant for 58 per cent to 41.9 million FY 2014: 26.6 million.
the Marubeni Corporation and on a water pumping station for a desalination plant for the Toya Thai Corporation.
24 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT Operational review continued The operational gearing that comes with scale and market Activity increased in North America, despite ongoing pricing reach has been further enhanced through our focus on supplypressures, with the opening of a new location in Seattle and the chain management, fleet logistics and our pricing strategy.
As exploitation of our important strategic alliance on the West Coast such, the business is delivering sustainable margins in excess of with Webcor Builders.
We continued to grow in Latin America our previously guided through-cycle range.
winning work on a variety of projects including the extension to Tocumen Airport and the Hotel Concordia in Panama and the We further extended our reach during the year, opening new extension to the International terminal at Jose Maria Cordova branches in India and the United States but also downsized Airport and a number infrastructure projects in Colombia.
in weaker markets, such as Australia, relocating our fleet to exploit opportunities and keeping our cost base responsive to GROUP SERVICES demand fluctuations.
All central costs, including those related to our financing and central bidding activities, are disclosed within the Group We continued to see strong growth in the Middle East, especially Services segment.
This segment now also includes Investments in Qatar where a number of large-scale infrastructure projects which was formerly reported separately.
Following the disposal are now underway, including the East West Highway project of the majority of our PFI portfolio it is no longer judged where we are supplying equipment on several bridge structures.
Demand remained robust in the UAE, where work has been delivered on the Dubai Opera House, the Saadyatt Resort in Abu Group Services costs fell to 23.6 million FY 2014: Dhabi and on the new Dubai-Abu Dhabi highway.
24.4 million, due principally to a reduction in employment costs as long-term incentive payments were lower than In Asia-Pacific, we delivered strong performances in Hong previous years.
This net reduction accommodated an increased Kong and the Philippines, driven by increased investment in investment in back-office capabilities, IT infrastructure, infrastructure projects, including the Kowloon Rail Terminus, people development and communications.
We anticipate this the Hong Kong Macau Bridge and the Manila Bay Development.
increased level of investment will continue in the medium term, We performed well in New Zealand but demand in Australia as we continue to scale our support and assurance functions remained muted following the conclusion in 2014 of a series of appropriately with the growth of our operational businesses.
This investment is also reflected in an increased level of capital expenditure as we start the construction of a new Midlands hub The UK performed very strongly in increasingly confident into which we will consolidate many of our back-office activities.
construction markets, with work continuing on sizeable rail improvement projects in Reading and on the Stockley Viaduct project near Heathrow airport.
We showcased our innovation in helping our customers understand how our services and products add value to their construction project by applying augmented reality from the gaming industry to demonstrate how equipment will integrate with new or existing construction sites.
The live 3D visualisations enable clients to view equipment GREW THE NUMBER OF TRAINING solutions and zoom inside designs for construction projects.
We also redeveloped our sales training programme - putting DAYS IN THE UK BY sustainability at its core - and re-launched it across the business.
During the year we launched a new range of high 98% TO 24,089 specification ground-shoring products and have begun to penetrate this large new market segment in the UK.
O O OV V five E ER R RV V VIIIE E EW W W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G G GO O OV V five E ER R RN N NA A AN N NC C CE E E F F FIIIN N NA A AN N NC C CIIIA A AL L L S S ST T TA A AT T TE E EM M ME E EN N NT T TS S S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 25 RANKED IN THE Interserve was ranked in Business in the Communitys BITC annual benchmark of responsible business, the Corporate CORPORATE Responsibility Index CR Index, for the first time during the year.
RESPONSIBILITY The CR Index is a robust benchmarking tool which helps companies measure and manage the progress they are INDEX FOR THE making to integrate responsible business practice into their mainstream business at all levels.
FIRST TIME We achieved a rating of 2 stars, which means the Company has developed policies for all areas of CR, integrated them into the business and publicly reports on them.
The Company was also credited for having appointed a Board member to be accountable for different areas of CR and for having included CR objectives as part of the performance review criteria for senior managers and Board members.
BITC said the Company had reliable baseline data to develop appropriate KPIs, set relevant targets that will demonstrate performance improvement and was well placed to identify CR-related risks and opportunities as part of a formal process.
26 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT Operational review continued We take every step to ensure working environments are free OUR PEOPLE from harassment and bullying, where all individuals are treated Employee consultation and participation equally and fairly and that selection for employment, promotion, We believe in involving our people in matters affecting them as training or any other benefit will be taken solely on merit and employees and keeping them informed of all relevant factors ability against job-based criteria.
We avoid discrimination in concerning the Groups performance, strategy, financial status, working conditions and terms of employment and are committed charitable activities and other issues.
We achieve this through to making reasonable adjustments for disabled employees.
formal and informal briefings, our Group newspaper Focus We oppose all forms of unlawful and unfair discrimination.
Diversity and inclusion We continued to grow our web-based employee portal, In 2015 we completed an assessment with the National Equality www.
com, specifically aimed at reaching our Standard fines, a cross-industry recognised standard covering all thousands of employees.
The portal, launched in 2014, is areas of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in the UK.
The results accessible on mobile devices, giving staff access to company will be input into a three-year plan to help us achieve exemplar news, the ability to participate in discussion forums, and to give standards in equality, diversity and inclusion.
days of their time in support of good causes, as well as access to staff discounts at a range of retailers and leisure outlets.
Interserve already works with a variety of different organisations who are helping us put in place programmes and practices that We operate two all-employee share schemes in order to support improve the diversity of our talent pipeline and build our culture our Employer of Choice goal and to encourage our employees of inclusion.
These include BITC Business in the Community, to share in the future of the Group.
In our Sharesave Scheme, Investors in Diversity IiD, The Princes Trust, WISE, Ban the employees save small amounts each month which can be then Box, Leonard Cheshire and Two Ticks for disability, to name used to purchase Company shares at a discount to the market several.
The fines will be the consolidating standard that binds all price.
In our Share Incentive Plan, employees can purchase our activities together and through their process will help our Company shares through lump-sum or monthly payments which selection of partner organisations moving forward.
are deducted from their salaries before income tax and national insurance liabilities are assessed.
To improve the gender split of our talent pipeline, Interserve has invested in the following activities in 2015: development of a Equal opportunities Woman in Interserve network, provision of one-on-one and group Interserve is committed to eliminating discrimination among our coaching to support career progression of our female talent and workforce in order that we may offer employees an environment an enhancement on maternity benefits across the divisions.
where there is no unlawful discrimination and all decisions are based on merit.
As at 31 December 2015, 34,786 of our global workforce of 63,570 were male and 28,784 were female.
Further information Our policy is to promote equality and fairness for all in our is provided in the table below.
The Group aims to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment or is disadvantaged Throughout our worldwide operations we strive to operate to high by imposed conditions or requirements that cannot be shown to standards of human rights in accordance with our values and all be justifiable, on the grounds of gender including sex, marital or appropriate legislation.
civil partner status, gender re-assignment, race including ethnic origin, colour, nationality and national origin, disability, sexual orientation, religion or belief, age, and pregnancy or maternity.
2 Subsidiary directors and Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibility PDMRs at year end.
3 Employees of wholly-owned subsidiaries included within Group consolidation at year end.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 27 We are regularly recognised for our contributions to delivering HEALTH AND SAFETY high standards of health and safety and in 2015 this included: Interserve adopts a formal and proactive approach to the management of health and safety throughout our operations.
Winning over 20 awards in this years Royal Society for the Senior directors have responsibility for health and safety in each Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Awards, taking the Groups division and, together with divisional Heads of Safety, meet total RoSPA honours over the last decade to more than 220. quarterly to review performance and the various health and Our UK Construction business was awarded RoSPAs safety initiatives being undertaken.
prestigious Order of Distinction award.
Our standard is for all operating businesses to implement safety Gulf Contracting won the Health & Safety Initiative of management systems that meet the OHSAS 18001 standard.
the Year award at the Qatar Construction Week Awards Across the world 93 per cent of our employees work under safety for its collaborative work with ALEC on the Doha Festival management systems certified to this standard.
To support our City project.
management systems, in the Middle East we have launched our Adyard was recognised by its client, Shams, for its safety Brownfield Hotwork Gold Standard and our Life Saving Rules to work at a solar-power plant in Abu Dhabi, where the team provide clear guidance on standards to operating staff.
carried out modification and maintenance works on the plants steam super heaters.
Safety performance is clearly defined as a line-management responsibility and, together with formal management systems, The result of this proactive approach is that over the year our we provide appropriate training and professional support to reportable injury incidence rate reduced by 30 per cent with ensure managers are able to effectively discharge their duties.
our overall accident rate for all lost-time injuries reducing by Proactive site visits and safety inspections are carried out by 13 per cent.
directors, management teams and safety advisers.
Members of the Executive Board carried out a total of 126 site safety visits during the year and across the Group a total over 2,700 management safety tours were recorded.
As a result of these and other inspections, over 134,000 unsafe conditions were identified and corrected, preventing potential incidents.
REDUCED THE ACCIDENT INCIDENT RATE BY 30% TO 146 ACHIEVING OUR 2020 TARGET FIVE YEARS EARLY
