Strategic report Operating review Consumer Goods The Consumer Goods division has continued to grow well, with strong growth in emerging markets.
KEY BUSINESS LINES Financial highlights 2015 Softlines Organic 2015 2014 Change at Change at change at Hardlines m m actual rates constant rates constant rates Product Intelligence Revenue 404.3 375.3 7.7% 4.4% 4.4% Auditing Adjusted operating profit 136.1 124.8 9.1% 4.4% Adjusted operating margin 33.7% 33.3% 40bps 0bps SERVICES & CUSTOMERS Intertek is a market leading provider OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2015 MIDTO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK of services to the textiles, toys, Total revenue was 404.3m, up 4.4% Our Consumer Goods division benefits footwear, hardlines and retail at constant exchange rates.
At actual from strong long-term structural growth industries.
As partner to retailers, exchange rates total revenue was drivers including product variety, brand manufacturers and distributors, 7.7% higher.
and supply chain expansion, product the Company offers expertise on innovation and regulation, and the Total adjusted operating profit was quality issues ranging from restricted increasing quality and sustainability 136.1m, up 4.4% at constant exchange hazardous substances and demand of developed and emerging rates, reflecting good growth in the sustainability, to supply chain security economies globally.
textiles and chemical testing businesses.
and legislation relating to Total adjusted operating profit was up Through these trends we expect longenvironmental, ethical and trade 9.1% at actual exchange rates.
term continuing growth from expanding security issues.
Services include testing, investment in quality.
inspection, auditing, advisory services, In 2015 our Consumer Goods division quality assurance and hazardous delivered a 4.4% organic revenue growth substance testing.
Our customers performance with stable margin driven CASE STUDY include the worlds leading retailers, by a strong growth in Softlines and a their partners and suppliers.
Interteks smart approach Our Softlines business benefited from STRATEGY to chemical screening strong demand from our customers for Consumer Goods supports our chemical testing to reduce harmful In 2015, we launched our global customers with quality solutions chemicals and from the expansion of Chemical Smart Screening service for that add value throughout their supply their supply chains in new markets where textile, apparel and footwear chain and which support their brand we have opened new facilities.
This single screening test and desirability of their products Our Hardlines business continues to can detect up to 400 substances in to their end consumers.
We do this take advantage of growth in new chemicals and auxiliaries used in by ensuring that we deliver high sourcing markets and strong global production, allowing manufacturers levels of service and expertise in account relationships.
and retailers to identify harmful key locations, and by continuously chemicals even before reaching the innovating the range of services 2016 OUTLOOK prototype stage.
we provide by anticipating customer In 2016 we expect our Consumer Goods demands and their future business to deliver good organic growth.
This innovative approach gives geographic needs.
customers higher visibility into their Our Softlines business will benefit from supply chain as well as lowering the risk the supply chain expansion in Vietnam, of extra production cost and turnaround Cambodia and India, as well as from the time caused by rehandling.
strong growth we are seeing in the footwear sector.
Our Hardlines business will benefit from the supply chain expansion in India and Mexico, as well as from the launch of 404.3m innovative technology for Inspections Revenue in factories.
136.1m Adjusted Operating Profit 24 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY Activewear isnt just for working out any To meet the rising demand from clients Intertek sports new more.
As workout clothes have become for activewear testing, in 2015 Intertek testing for activewear more fashionable spurring the popular developed its Activewear Testing athleisure trend men, women and Solutions service.
children are now wearing activewear to We now carry out testing for functional work, to run errands, to school and even and performance properties like antiout to dinner.
Additionally, as people bacterial, thermal regulation, moisture become more health-conscious by adding management quick-dry, breathability, sport into their daily lives, activewear UV protection and water repellency for a becomes a natural choice as it improves variety of products including performance user performance.
outerwear, fitness apparel, team uniforms, footwear and outdoor clothes.
CASE STUDY Intertek launches innovative E-fit service for textiles and clothing Intertek launched a new innovative computer-modelling E-fit service in India using CAD Computer Aided Design that codifies product specification to help local factories meet their clients standards for textiles and clothing.
Our tool uses a combination of hardware and software systems, to help manufacturers create 3D designs and patterns, as well as showing fabrics stitched onto a virtual model to visualise the final product.
As well as reducing costs at every point in the manufacturing process including fabrics, logistics and prototypes, the E-fit CAD-enabled testing studio reduces production time for clients and provides a better understanding of fits and falls.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 25 Strategic report Operating review Commercial & Electrical The Commercial & Electrical division has grown revenue strongly with good growth across Electrical, Transportation Technologies and Building Products.
KEY BUSINESS LINES Financial highlights 2015 Electrical & Wireless Organic 2015 2014 Change at Change at change at Transportation Technologies m m actual rates constant rates constant rates Building Products Revenue 411.7 359.6 14.5% 10.5% 6.1% Adjusted operating profit 60.5 51.0 18.6% 13.9% Adjusted operating margin 14.7% 14.2% 50bps 50bps SERVICES & CUSTOMERS Our global network of accredited OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2015 2016 OUTLOOK facilities provides manufacturers and Total revenue was 411.7m, up 10.5% In 2016 we expect our Commercial retailers with a comprehensive scope at constant exchange rates, driven by & Electrical Business to deliver good of safety, performance and quality strong growth in our Transportation organic growth.
Technologies business line and the Our E&W business will benefit from The division supports a wide range acquisition of PSI.
At actual exchange expansion of our operations in South of industries including home rates revenue growth was 14.5%.
Korea and Mexico into the fast growing appliances, consumer electronics, Total adjusted operating profit was EMC sector.
On a global basis we are information and communication 60.5m, up 13.9% at constant exchange seeing an increased demand for Internettechnology, transportation, lighting, rates with the total adjusted operating of-Things IOT testing across multiple medical, building products, industrial margin increasing 50 basis points at industries.
Total adjusted customers include the worlds leading Our Building Products business will operating profit was up 18.6% at brands and manufacturers of a wide benefit from the growth of the actual rates.
range of consumer electrical and commercial and civil construction industrial products and components.
Our Commercial & Electrical business markets in the USA as well as from delivered strong organic growth of 6.1% the integration of PSI.
STRATEGY in 2015 with improved margin driven by Our Transportation Technologies broad based growth in Electrical & Commercial & Electrical delivers operations will take advantage of the Wireless E&W, Transportation solutions that add value along the strong growth of testing activities for Technologies and Building Products.
length of our customers supply chain electric and hybrid vehicles.
and which support their brand and Our E&W business continued to benefit MIDTO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK the desirability of their products to from higher regulatory standards in As with our other Products-related their end consumers.
Our key focus energy efficiency and from the increased divisions, Commercial & Electrical is leveraging our global network demand for wireless devices.
benefits from long-term structural of centres of excellence and The growing demand for greener and growth drivers including product variety, comprehensive suite of technical higher quality buildings and infrastructure brand and supply chain expansion, accreditations and market-leading in the US market are the major drivers product innovation and regulation, and customer service to help our clients of growth for our Building the increasing quality and sustainability get their products to market quicker Product activities.
demands by developed and emerging through our global market economies globally.
Our Transportation Technologies operations are capitalising on our Through these trends we expect longautomotive clients investments in R&D term continuing growth from expanding to develop new models and more fuel investment in quality.
The quality of our innovative solutions to support the performance and safety agenda of our customers is an important driver of the strong results we have 411.7m delivered in 2015 in our Commercial Revenue & Electrical business.
60.5m Adjusted Operating Profit 26 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY Intertek leads the world in Qi wireless charging testing and certification Interteks Center of New Technology and Knowledge in Hong Kong became the worlds first Wireless Power Consortium WPC - authorized testing laboratory to provide testing and certification services for medium to low-power Qi pronounced chee wireless charging products.
Qi wireless charging technology is a close-range inductive-charging technology, and any Qi-compatible device can be placed on medium low-power charging pads or docks to charge safely and easily.
Together with our global expertise and cutting-edge technological solutions in electrical and wireless testing, we are now able to help our customers get their wireless charging products certified according to the highly recognised Qi standard.
CASE STUDY Interteks award-winning Transportation Our European Centre of Excellence for Intertek launches Portable Technologies laboratory based in Milton high-end automotive powertrain testing Emissions Measurement Keynes, UK, responded swiftly to changes and engineering services, which was in European exhaust emissions legislation recognised across Europe as the Engine System testing capability by launching a service to deliver accurate Test Facility of the Year in the 2015 on-road vehicle exhaust emissions testing Automotive Testing Technology Awards, and analysis, enabling manufacturers to has also invested in low carbon vehicle, report real world drivingemissions.
high performance electric machine and hybrid testing cells to enable our Intertek was one of the first UK test automotive customers to reach their laboratories to offer vehicle-mounted goals on airquality emissions and Portable Emissions Measurement System CO reduction.
2 testing for cars and light commercial vehicles, providing real world driving analysis of vehicle tailpipe emissions on public roads rather than in a laboratory.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 27 Strategic report Operating review Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals The Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals division had good growth and benefited from restructuring carried out within Europe.
KEY BUSINESS LINES Financial highlights 2015 Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Organic 2015 2014 Change at Change at change at m m actual rates constant rates constant rates Revenue 183.8 173.1 6.2% 5.5% 5.5% Adjusted operating profit 22.3 18.6 19.9% 18.0% Adjusted operating margin 12.1% 10.7% 140bps 130bps SERVICES & CUSTOMERS Serving a wide range of industries, OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2015 2016 OUTLOOK including chemicals and refined Total revenue was 183.8m, up 5.5% at In 2016 we expect our Chemicals & products, pharmaceutical, healthcare constant exchange rates.
At actual rates Pharmaceuticals business to deliver and beauty, and automotive and total revenue was up 6.2%.
aerospace, the division offers advanced Total adjusted operating profit was We will continue to leverage a good laboratory measurement and expert 22.3m, up 18.0% at constant exchange pipeline of new pharma products in both consultancy related technical support rates with an 130bps increase in margin the USA and in the UK.
on the prior year, primarily due to It has an established track record of We will support our existing and new restructuring activities and strong success in laboratory outsourcing with customers based on the breadth and performance in lubricants testing.
Total many large, internationally recognised depth of our assurance solutions as they adjusted operating profit at actual rates companies.
The divisions world increase their focus on the management increased by 19.9%.
leading technical experts also support of regulatory risk.
Our Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals division MIDTO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK Our customers include leading brands delivered strong organic growth of 5.5% Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals benefits and suppliers of products and R&D with improved margin.
from long-term structural growth drivers to the pharma industries, makers of We continue to benefit from good including product variety, brand and healthcare and beauty products, growth in the health and beauty sector supply chain expansion, product and a wide range of industrial and as our customers invest in the innovation and regulation, and the consumer-facing corporations who use development and global roll out of increasing quality and sustainability our expertise to help them develop the innovations to differentiate their brands.
demands by developed and emerging materials and chemicals of the future.
The increase in demand in emerging STRATEGY markets for better health and beauty Through these trends we expect longproducts is creating strong growth term continuing growth from expanding Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals supports opportunities for our testing and investment in quality.
our customers as they develop new assurance services.
products, materials and technologies, as they anticipate and meet their endOur Health, Environmental and customers quality demands and as they Regulatory business saw strong growth anticipate and meet new regulations.
in assurance activities as companies prepare for the next EU REACH chemical restriction regulatory deadline.
In September we opened a world class immunochemistry laboratory in Manchester.
The new facility will help our pharmaceutical clients to navigate the many technical challenges associated with bringing biological medicine to the market.
183.8m Revenue 22.3m Adjusted Operating Profit 28 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY Intertek helps research into more effective inhaled medicines Intertek worked with academics from Kings College London and The University of Parma, Italy, to investigate how effective formulations can be tailored for different inhalation devices.
The study highlighted that the medicine formulation must be co-optimised with the device during product development.
Conducting research such as this enables our experts to help global clients to develop more effective therapies for asthma, Cystic Fibrosis, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary disease and other serious conditions.
For over 20 years, we have built a reputation for providing outstanding and responsive customer service for challenging pharmaceutical development which includes specialist expertise for inhaled drug delivery analysis, stability and formulation support.
CASE STUDY When Janssen PMP wanted to explore Janssen PMP partners a newantimicrobial ingredient for with Intertek to explore plastics theyturned to Intertek for its unique capabilities in testing novel SANAFOR, anovel plastic materials.
antimicrobial technology Our polymer scientists studied how for plastics easy it wasto include this new ingredient into plastic materials at our polymer processing facility in the Netherlands.
We then produced test samples, using film extrusion and injection moulding, and carried out a suite of physicaltests.
Our teams were able to show that it was straightforward to include the antimicrobial SANAFOR into plastics and to demonstrate suitable performance for a wide range of potential applications.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 29 Strategic report Operating review Commodities The Commodities division has grown revenue and margin in its Cargo business line, being partially offset by the weaker conditions in the Minerals business.
KEY BUSINESS LINES Financial highlights 2015 Cargo & Analytical Assessment Organic 2015 2014 Change at Change at change at Minerals m m actual rates constant rates constant rates Government & Trade Services Revenue 554.8 542.4 2.3% 3.7% 3.8% Adjusted operating profit 79.1 65.5 20.8% 21.7% Adjusted operating margin 14.3% 12.1% 220bps 220bps SERVICES & CUSTOMERS Provides independent cargo inspection, OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2015 Our Mineral business delivered a resilient analytical assessment, calibration and Total revenue was 554.8m, up 3.7% organic growth performance for the full related research and technical services at constant exchange rates, primarily due year with a slight positive organic growth to the worlds petroleum, mining, to growth in the Cargo and Analytical performance in the second half of minerals and biofuels industries.
At actual exchange the year.
division also provides services to rates total revenue was 2.3% higher.
Providing our customers with bespoke governments and regulatory bodies to Total adjusted operating profit at trade inspections and testing solutions support trade activities that help the constant rates was 79.1m, up 21.7% is important to increase our customer flow of goods across borders.
Our versus prior year, with a 220 basis point retention and win new contracts.
customers are global and national increase in margin supported by commodities retailers, traders and 2016 OUTLOOK restructuring activities.
Total adjusted storage companies, and governmentIn 2016 we expect our Commodities operating profit was up 20.8% at ministry clients in the Middle East, business to deliver a good organic actual rates.
Our Commodities division delivered Our Cargo AA operations will benefit STRATEGY good organic growth performance of from the expansion of the new facilities 3.8% in 2015 with margin improvement In Commodities, we deliver solutions in 2015 and will leverage the increased driven by good organic growth that help our clients protect the value volume of Cargo shipments for refined performance in both our Cargo AA of their downstream hydrocarbon products.
activities and our Government & products during their custody-transfer, Trade Services GTS businesses.
Our GTS activities will focus on increasing storage and transportation around the the scope of our export Testing and world.
Our expertise, service Cargo AA has delivered a consistent Inspection in the Middle East and innovations and advanced analytical performance during the year benefiting Africa with existing clients.
capabilities allow us to optimise the from increased Inspection and Testing return on our customers cargoes and activities as our existing clients grew their MIDTO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK help them resolve difficult technical cargo volumes and as we gained new The long-term end-demand for resources challenges.
In the mining sector we clients.
The business also benefited from and energy, development and trading of partner with clients along the supply the expansion of our additive and commodities as well as new fuel sources chain to validate the quality and lubricants testing capabilities.
will continue to drive growth in this value of their resources being division through the cycle.
We have also invested in new facilities explored, produced and shipped.
to support the LNG growth of our Our independent product assessments customers in Gladstone, Australia, provide peace-of-mind to our and Papua New Guinea.
government clients that the quality of products imported into the Our GTS business delivered strong country meet their standards organic growth performance in H1 and import processes.
benefiting from export volume growth with existing clients and from new contracts.
This was partially offset by lower organic 554.8m growth performance in the second half Revenue of the year as we saw a reduction of trade volume in both the Middle East and Africa.
79.1m Adjusted Operating Profit 30 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY Intertek supports Liquefied Natural Gas projects in Australia Intertek supported the shipment and custody transfer of the first cargo from the GLNG project, an AU$25 billion venture located on Curtis Island in Queensland, Australia.
The Gladstonebased project converts gas from coal seams to Liquefied Natural Gas LNG for export from Australia.
In October the first cargo left Australia forSouth Korea.
Intertek undertook a shipsurvey for the AU$40 million cargo bymanaging independent witness quality andquantity testing of the product at discharge and loading.
Intertek also undertook continuous product sampling tointernational standards.
Earlier in the year at Australias largest onshore oil field at Barrow Island, Western Australia, we supported the inaugural import of Mono Ethylene Glycol MEG at Chevrons LNG plant.
As part of an engagement with Ixom, we undertook extensive sampling, surveying, testing and dissolved oxygen-monitoring initiatives to support the first of three MEGimports, a first for the AU$60 billionGorgon LNG project.
We continue to invest in and develop ourcargo testing network services in anticipation of future customer requirements and as a result, we opened new laboratories in Gladstone and Papua New Guinea to support the LNG growth in theregion.
CASE STUDY Intertek fuel quality experts and mobile Intertek becomes official testing labs provide testing services fuel quality testing partner on-site at race tracks performing realtime, on-track, fuel compliance testing.
for the FIM We are also providing additional expertise to ensure that teams comply with the Already an official global partner of FIM fuel regulations.
the FIM International Motorcycling Federation, Intertek became the exclusive As part of the partnership, we will assist fuel quality testing services provider for FIM with fuel approval process support, FIM race events including Superbike, as well as updating FIM management Motocross, Supercross, and Endurance on changes to fuel regulations and including 24h Le Mans.
developing quality and testing standards.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 31 Strategic report Operating review Industry & Assurance The Industry & Assurance division with good growth in Food, Agriculture and Business Assurance has been impacted by the decision to exit low value contracts and lower levels of capital expenditure by the oil and gas industry.
KEY BUSINESS LINES Financial highlights 2015 Industry Services Organic 2015 2014 Change at Change at change at Business Assurance m m actual rates constant rates constant rates Food & Agriculture Services Revenue 611.7 642.9 4.9% 3.0% 5.8% Adjusted operating profit 45.4 64.5 29.6% 27.8% Adjusted operating margin 7.4% 10.0% 260bps 260bps SERVICES & CUSTOMERS Using in-depth knowledge of the oil, OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2015 industry, we recorded a non-cash gas, nuclear, power, renewable energy, Total revenue was 611.7m, down 3.0% at impairment charge of 577m against construction, food, chemical and constant exchange rates.
This was primarily Industry Services in the year.
agricultural industries, the division due to the continued low oil price reducing 2016 OUTLOOK provides a diverse range of services to capital project work in the year.
At actual In 2016 we expect to deliver strong help customers optimise their assets exchange rates revenue was 4.9% lower.
organic growth performance in Food, and meet global quality standards for Total adjusted operating profit at constant Agriculture and Business Assurance.
Our services provide rates was 27.8% lower at 45.4m with a clients with independent verification of Our Agriculture business will benefit from 260 basis point reduction in margin.
At the integrity of new assets being the strong growth momentum with our actual rates adjusted operating profit was constructed, and existing assets being existing clients in fast growing markets.
The reduction in underlying maintained, with key services that Our Food business will focus on the margin is due to the revenue decline in our include technical inspection, asset integration of the FIT acquisition Industry Services business.
integrity management, analytical capitalising on the growth of the Food testing, and consulting and training Our Industry and Assurance division service sector.
The division also provides delivered, as expected, a mixed Our Business Assurance business will quality and safety services to the Food performance in 2015 with a decline of focus on the integration of the DIC and Agri sectors, certification services, 5.8% in organic revenue.
acquisition and the growth in Supplier second-party supplier auditing, The double-digit organic growth Audit management.
sustainability data verification and performance we delivered in the Food process performance analysis.
Our In 2016 we expect the trading conditions & Agriculture and Business Assurance customers include the owners, in Industry Services to remain challenging businesses was more than offset by the operators and developers of new and as we have not yet reached the trough in continuing challenging trading conditions existing industrial infrastructure, global the oil and gas Capex activities given the in Industry Services and by the planned food and hospitality brands and their lag between changes in the oil price and contract exits.
suppliers, and the worlds agricultural the Capex investments of our clients.
Our Food & Agriculture businesses are Our Industry Services operations will benefiting from increased focus on food focus on cost and capacity management STRATEGY safety requirements, and also from our in our Capex Inspection businesses while clients expansion of their supply chains in continuing to diversify our activities in We help our customers to manage risk newer markets like Turkey and Brazil.
non-Oil Capex Inspection and NDT and optimise the returns of their Opex activities.
infrastructure assets across a wide range The increased focus of corporations of industrial sectors.
By partnering with to manage the intrinsic risks of more MIDTO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK Intertek, our customers gain peace-ofcomplex supply chains is an attractive We expect oil and gas infrastructure mind that their projects will proceed and source of growth for our Business markets to recover and that the longtheir assets will operate with a lower risk Assurance businesses.
term growth in Industry Services will be of technical failure or delay.
driven by global population and energy The revenues in Industry Services were consumption growth, and capex and lower than last year as we saw a reduction opex spending to support world in volume and increased price pressure in economic growth.
the Capex Inspection activities, as well as 611.7m a delay in the maintenance of refineries by Growing consumer demand for quality Revenue our main customers.
In addition we exited, products and brands in developed and as planned, low-value contracts, which developing economies, increasing represented a full year revenue loss regulations, and public food scandals, of 25m.
will continue to drive growth in the 45.4m Food & Agriculture and Business As a result of the continuing challenging Adjusted Operating Profit Assurance markets.
trading conditions in the global oil and gas 32 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY Intertek helps drive down road traffic accidents According to the World Health Organization, injuries related to road traffic accidents are the eighth leading cause of death globally.
An estimated 1.4 million people die of traffic-related injuries each year and approximately 20-50 million are seriously injured.
In order to help our customers reduce their own road traffic risks, we became accredited in 2015 to certify to ISO 39001, the international standard for Road Traffic Safety Management Systems.
ISO 39001 helps organisations implement road safety management systems to improve traffic safety and reduce the number of persons killed or severely injured in road traffic incidents.
The addition of ISO 39001 accreditation complements our range of risk management solutions including Business Continuity Management ISO 22301, Asset Management ISO 55001, to which Intertek became accredited in 2015, and Supplier Management Assessments which help organisations mitigate risk, reduce environmental impact and minimise operating costs.
CASE STUDY CASE STUDY Intertek provides Intertek helps safeguard technical services for new Queensferry Crossing 1,850km gas pipeline Intertek is providing corrosion monitoring equipment and software Intertek was awarded a contract by that will be used to safeguard the new Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline Queensferry Crossing.
When opened in TANAP to provide services that will 2016, the bridge will cross the Firth of allow the pipeline to operate safely Forth in Scotland, allowing vehicles, as well as help minimise flow and pedestrians and cyclists to pass contamination risks to the gas between Edinburgh and Fife.
Structural health monitoring system This natural gas pipeline, due to be supplier Strainstall will provide a completed in 2018, will run from complete health monitoring system Azerbaijan through Turkey to Europe for the new 2.7-km cable-stayed bridge.
and is expected to carry 16 billion Interteks corrosion data monitoring cubic metres of gas a year.
Concerto units will form a key part of the system, providing details of the Through a combination of technical integrity of the concrete within the inspection, quality assurance and structure.
Overall, 120 units will be pipe testing services, Intertek will installed which will relay information ensure the quality and integrity of between one another and send data the line pipe, verifying material, to a central hub.
This information will dimensions, welding, coating and be used by engineers to assess when other parameters to meet the clients maintenance is required on the bridge.
specifications as well as industry standards and requirements.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 33
