Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 LEGOLAND Parks LEGOLAND PARKS ENJOYED ANOTHER EXCELLENT YEAR FOLLOWING THE RECORD PERFORMANCE REPORTED IN 2014.
THE POSITIVE UNDERLYING MOMENTUM OF THE LEGOLAND BRAND CONTINUES, SUPPORTED BY THE STRENGTH OF THE LEGO TOY BRAND AND OUR ONGOING INVESTMENT ACROSS THE ESTATE.
IN ADDITION, THE STRONG EARLY PERFORMANCE OF THE NEW 152 ROOM FULLY THEMED HOTEL AT LEGOLAND FLORIDA HAS PROVIDED FURTHER CONFIDENCE IN OUR ONGOING RESORT POSITIONING STRATEGY.
WE REMAIN ON TRACK TO OPEN THREE NEW LEGOLAND PARKS OVER THE COURSE OF 2016 TO 2018 AND TARGET A FURTHER OPENING BY THE END OF 2020.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - LEGOLAND Parks Constant 2015 2014 Growth CurrencyGrowth Visitors m 12.7 12.7 0.1 % Revenue m 429 386 11.2% 10.6% 1 1 EBITDA m 169 142 18.6% 16.7% 1 1 Operating profit m 146 120 21.8% 19.7% Like for like revenue growth 8.2% 1 Excluding the effect of the change in allocation of central costs in 2015.
Reference in the narrative below is made to these adjusted figures, unless otherwise stated.
Further detail is provided on page 50.
Including this reallocation, reported EBITDA and operating profit growth were 19.3% and 22.6% respectively, and 17.4% and 20.5% respectively on a constant currency basis.
Tradingperformance This reflected the opportunity to close the pricing differential The positive momentum around the LEGOLAND brand with competitors in the North American market, coupled with continued in 2015.
The strength and product development of lower overall promotional activity compared to 2014, which the core toy brand, coupled with the continued investment in included promotions related to The LEGO Movie.
Like for like compelling product across the LEGOLAND park estate and growth in EBITDA and operating profit was strong, reflecting the impetus provided by the 2014 release of The LEGO Movie RPC-led revenue growth and the non-recurrence of certain have delivered another year of strong growth.
remedial costs related to the LEGOLAND Windsor Hotel which suppressed the 2014 result.
Overall revenue growth of 10.6% was driven predominantly by growth in revenue per capita RPC, supporting strong Capitalinvestment conversion of revenue into profit, with EBITDA growth of LEGOLAND parks operate under a four year pre-determined 16.7% and operating profit growth of 19.7% for the year capital investment cycle whereby high or medium years are all at constant currency.
At reported currencies, the results typically followed by a low year.
from our two parks in North America benefited from the translation impact of the strength of the US Dollar, leading In 2015, the high year investment was in LEGOLAND Windsor, to revenue growth of 11.2%, converting into EBITDA growth with a medium year in LEGOLAND Florida.
In both of these of 18.6% and operating profit growth of 21.8%.
parks, the new product was based around LEGO Friends, the LEGO toy range targeted towards girls, with themed areas added, Existingestate including new ride and show content.
This was complemented Revenue grew by 8.2% on a like for like basis, despite the tough with new LEGO Friends themed rooms at our on-site hotels.
comparatives created in 2014 which saw like for like revenue These investments were well received by our guests and helped growth of 13.2%.
Growth in the prior year benefited from to broaden the customer demographic, with LEGOLAND increased visitation following the launch of The LEGO Movie Windsor for example seeing a 2% increase in the number and the associated marketing and promotional opportunities that of girls visiting compared to boys.
Although 2015 saw continued strong visitation, the revenue performance was primarily driven by growth in RPC.
Resortpositioning Our strategy of developing the parks as short break destinations continued in 2015.
In May we opened the fantastic new 152 room hotel at LEGOLAND Florida.
The hotel benefited from being the first on-site themed accommodation and delivered a strong opening performance, both directly in the hotel and in its contribution to park volumes see page 27.
We also ran a trial of 14 giant-sized beer barrel chalets in LEGOLAND Deutschland.
LEGO Friends at This accommodation concept has proved extremely popular and will be rolled out further in 2016.
LEGOLAND Windsor and Florida The strong performance of our existing accommodation, as well proved highly popular, broadening as the success of the LEGOLAND Florida Hotel, provides us with the customer demographic further confidence in our resort positioning strategy.
We continue to see significant further opportunity for accommodation expansion at our existing resorts, as well as exploring options to accelerate the accommodation strategy at any new parks.
25 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - LEGOLAND Parks Customersatisfaction  It is a testament to the strength of the product and our excellent 2015 has seen continued progress on the three new staff that, in a year of continued growth, our already high guest LEGOLAND parks currently being developed in Dubai satisfaction score improved further in 2015.
Lookingahead LEGOLAND Dubai We will continue to make further investments across our estate, LEGOLAND Dubai is on schedule to open in the fourth providing guests with new, innovative and compelling features quarter of 2016.
Together with its associated waterpark, which at each of our parks, under our defined four year capital will be run as a second gate attraction, the park will operate investment cycles.
under a management contract and be funded primarily by Dubai Parks and Resorts.
Similar to the operating model Our high year investment in 2016 will be at LEGOLAND used for LEGOLAND Malaysia, Merlin will earn fees for the Billund in Denmark.
Opening early in the season, NINJAGO - management of the park, including additional amounts based upon performance, with no upfront or ongoing capital The Ride, will be a brand new, interactive dark ride capitalising investment obligation.
The LEGOLAND park and waterpark on LEGOs own NINJAGO brand.
We will also open smaller will be located as part of a wider resort, consisting of a number scale attractions using the same underlying concept in California of other complementary leisure attractions and hotels, including and Malaysia and plan to roll the product out to other parks motiongate in future years.
Dubai and Bollywood Parks Dubai.
The resort is well located on the main highway connecting Dubai and Abu It is the large and increasing scale of the Operating Group Dhabi and is equidistant between the two citys international that allows us to invest so effectively in this way.
The resort is expected to attract a range of visitors, investments, in both the existing estate and accommodation, primarily from the Middle East and Indian sub-continent.
benefit from the Operating Groups attractions being similar in their core concept, design and construction.
As we roll out LEGOLAND Japan compelling new product for our guests at any given park, LEGOLAND Japan is on schedule to open in the first half of 2017, we are able to capture and learn from the guest feedback, with construction well progressed.
Opening under an Operated operational improvements and efficiencies seen in prior and Leased model, Merlin will invest approximately a third of the launches.
Exploiting synergies in this way helps us to drive overall cost.
The balance of the funding will be met by KIRKBI, who growth with capital efficiency.
own 75% of the LEGO Group and are a 29.89% shareholder in Merlin.
Japan is the second largest theme park market in the world Further harnessing the strength of the LEGO brand and the and, given the level of LEGO brand awareness and the specific momentum created around The LEGO Movie, we will also be young family target demographic, LEGOLAND Japan is expected launching The LEGO Movie 4D A New Adventure throughout to be complementary to the existing parks in the region.
our parks, beginning with Florida and California in the first half of the year.
Partnering with Warner Bros. and the LEGO LEGOLAND Korea Group, the short, animated film will again feature our guests Located on Jung-do island in Chuncheon, South Korea, favourite characters such as Emmet and Wyldstyle.
LEGOLAND Korea is expected to open in 2018.
Similar to LEGOLAND Japan, the park will operate under an Operated Longer term, we will again seek to explore any potential and Leased model with Merlin investing approximately marketing and promotional opportunities around further one-third of the total park cost.
LEGO movies as they are launched, with further releases expected over the coming years.
Further developments With the sustained success of the LEGO and LEGOLAND brands we continue to pursue options for the roll out of further LEGOLAND parks.
In the fullness of time we firmly believe that there is scope for over 20 parks worldwide.
In addition to the parks in Dubai, Japan and South Korea, we target one further opening by 2020.
This is likely to be in either North America or China, where we are actively negotiating potential projects, including a partnership with China Media Capital for a joint venture in the Shanghai area, as announced in October 2015.
Furthermore, we see opportunity for accommodation at each of the parks which have yet to open, with a range of possible funding structures.
Specifically, we have plans for accommodation in both Japan and Dubai.
NINJAGO - The Ride at LEGOLAND California 26 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 LEGOLANDHOTELAT LEGOLAND FLORIDA RESORT The 152 room LEGOLAND hotel at LEGOLAND Florida Resort opened on 15 May 2015, representing the beginning of this locations resort positioning journey.
Located just 130 kid steps from the theme park entrance, the hotel is a fully immersive LEGO experience, with each guest room heavily LEGO themed.
There are also themed restaurants and live entertainment - we even have special VIP suites and a Disco Elevator - it is a truly magical experience!
Performance so far has been strong and we DID YOU KNOW?
saw occupancy levels of 98% in the key summer period.
Were also delighted that the hotel has There are more than 2,000 LEGO created over 100 new jobs for the surrounding models in the entire hotel created local community, who have given us out of more than two million fantastic support.
Looking forward, we see significant scope for further accommodation at the site.
In 2015, we This is the first LEGOLAND hotel purchased adjacent, undeveloped land for the to have its own Model Shop where resorts second phase of accommodation, which guests can build exclusively with is expected to follow the holiday village style.
Existing expansion space provides opportunities for still further accommodation.
These could Behind reception is an entire wall include a Castle hotel, lodges or glamping.
created out of more than 5,000 Each would have different levels of theming LEGO Minifigures.
and offer varying price points to ensure we cater to as many guests as possible.
Hotel guests are greeted by a smoke-breathing LEGO dragon created out of more than 445,000 LEGO bricks.
