Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 RESORT Theme Parks THE RESORT THEME PARKS OPERATING GROUP HAS HAD A CHALLENGING YEAR IN 2015.
DESPITE A POSITIVE START TO THE SEASON, THE OVERALL PERFORMANCE WAS MATERIALLY IMPACTED BY THE ACCIDENT WHICH TOOK PLACE AT ALTON TOWERS IN JUNE.
OUTSIDE OF OUR UK DAY-VISIT TRADING WE ARE PARTICULARLY PLEASED WITH THE PERFORMANCE AT GARDALAND.
IN ADDITION THE RESILIENCE OF OUR ACCOMMODATION OFFERING THROUGHOUT THE YEAR GIVES US CONFIDENCE IN THIS STRATEGY.
OUR PRIMARY FOCUS SINCE THE ACCIDENT ON 2 JUNE HAS BEEN WORKING TO ENSURE EVERY POSSIBLE LESSON IS LEARNT.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - RESORT Theme Parks Constant 2015 2014 Growth CurrencyGrowth Visitors m 10.2 12.0 14.2 % Revenue m 285 331 14.0 % 10.2 % 1 1 EBITDA m 47 87 49.2 % 46.5 % 1 1 Operating profit m 18 60 75.0 % 73.6 % Like for like revenue growth 12.4 % 1 Excluding the effect of the change in allocation of central costs in 2015.
Reference in the narrative below is made to these adjusted figures, unless otherwise stated.
Further detail is provided on page 50.
Including this reallocation, reported EBITDA and operating profit growth were 46.2 % and 70.7 % respectively, and 43.3 % and 69.0 % respectively on a constant currency basis.
AltonTowersaccident As a result of this, and despite good trading in Gardaland, the The Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Report, and Health, significant revenue shortfall at Alton Towers resulted in a Safety and Security Committee Report comment in detail on the significant decline in EBITDA and operating profit.
As a accident at Alton Towers.
The review of the Resort Theme Parks result, EBITDA margins declined to 16.5%.
Operating Group which follows focuses on the implications on operations and trading during the period.
Capitalinvestment Consistent with our strategy of deploying capital in the existing  estate according to a pre-determined four year cycle, 2015 Revenue in the Resort Theme Parks Operating Group fell by saw a major investment at Gardaland.
Oblivion - a new dive- 12.4% on a like for like basis, primarily reflecting the significant coaster - opened at the start of the 2015 season, decline in visitation at Alton Towers following the accident on receiving excellent guest feedback and helping contribute 2 June.
This led to a decline in EBITDA of 46.5% and operating to a good trading performance for the resort.
Further profit of 73.6% at constant currency.
The reported trading results details are set out on page 31. of the attractions in Continental Europe were adversely impacted by the translation impact of the weakening of the Euro against Resortpositioning Sterling.
At reported foreign exchange rates, revenue fell by Our strategy of developing our resorts into short break 14.0% and EBITDA and operating profit fell by 49.2% and destinations continued in 2015.
Alton Towers Resort saw the 75.0% respectively.
launch of a new 125 lodge Enchanted Village in April, which complements the existing 391 rooms across two hotels at the resort.
Notwithstanding the challenging trading within the The performance of the Operating Group was dominated by the day-visit market, this new accommodation offering performed impact of the incident at Alton Towers and the resulting significant broadly in line with our expectations, and received excellent guest decline in park visitation through the main trading season.
The 2015 performance further benefited from the full the majority of the impact was experienced at Alton Towers year impact of the new Azteca hotel opened in August 2014 at Resort, this created a difficult day-visit theme park market across Chessington World of Adventures, and reinforces our continued the UK.
As a result THORPE PARK, our other major rides park, confidence in the strategy.
also experienced a decline in visitation.
Action was taken to limit the decline in volumes and refocus marketing efforts towards younger families and the broader short break appeal of the resort.
However, this had limited effect over the key summer trading period in the face of ongoing media coverage of the incident.
Outside of the UK, Gardaland - Italys largest theme park - traded well, benefiting from a major new ride investment.
Whilst our larger resorts typically have a significant element of variable costs, the vast majority of these for the 2015 season had been committed by the end of May.
The Enchanted Village at Alton Towers Resort 29 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - RESORT Theme Parks Customersatisfaction We are pleased that, in a difficult year for the Resort Theme Parks Operating Group, guest satisfaction scores remain high, increasing slightly as a result of continued investment in new products and features together with the exceptional staff that helped deliver enjoyable days out to our guests.
Lookingahead We will continue to invest in the Resort Theme Parks Operating Group through our four year capital investment cycle in new and compelling propositions, delivering fun, memorable days out to our guests.
Our resort positioning strategy will take another step forward in 2016 as we open a new 100 room Adventure Hotel in Gardaland, adjacent to the existing 247 room hotel.
This forms a major part of the resorts ongoing strategy to increase multi-day visits, and appeal more to the approximately three million international visitors who already come to the Lake Garda region of Italy.
2016 will also see us launch a new glamping offering at Chessington World of Adventures, complementing the existing 219 rooms currently offered through our two hotels at Galactica at Alton Towers Resort that resort.
At Warwick Castle, we will be opening the Knights Village, where 28 themed lodges will complement our existing successful medieval glamping experience.
 We view the use of Intellectual Property IP and technology Beyond 2016, we see a strong pipeline of further as an increasingly important part of the Resort Theme Parks accommodation across each of our resorts as part of the growth strategy.
It is an opportunity to generate marketing and Group target to open 2,000 new rooms by the end of 2020.
PR opportunities and grow first-time and repeat visitation These include a combination of further hotels, lodges, glamping, with good capital efficiency.
and other exciting options for our guests to enjoy!
Where possible, we may also look to use Intellectual Property in Across the RTP estate, we already benefit from the Groups our accommodation projects in the same way that we have excellent relationships with major IP owners, such as the BBC, for our existing estate investments.
DreamWorks Animation, ITV and Rovio.
2016 will see further significant developments with existing, and new, IP partners, We remain cautious on the outlook for Alton Towers in 2016, including Derren Brown at THORPE PARK.
given the challenging year we have experienced in 2015 and the inherent uncertainty around customer behaviour.
We are We will launch new themed areas at Gardaland Kung Fu Panda confident in the resorts opportunities and strength longer term.
and Heide Park How to Train Your Dragon using DreamWorks Animation IP.
These new features will build on the expertise We remain optimistic on the short term performance of gained from the CBeebies Land themed area at Alton Towers our European theme park resorts, as well as our to both support visitation levels during the year of launch and, as accommodation offerings.
attractions targeted towards young families, to help broaden the resorts demographics.
In the UK, our major high year capex project is at THORPE PARK where we have partnered with Derren Brown - the acclaimed British maestro of mind control - to create a worlds first experience combining the unique talents of Derren to those of the Merlin Magic Making creative team see page 35.
Finally, at Alton Towers, we will use state-of-the-art, Virtual Reality technology to create Galactica, a completely new space travel experience.
The use of technology in this way, alongside an existing roller coaster, allows us to create a truly unique experience for our guests with good capital efficiency.
The new glamping offering at Chessington World of Adventures 30 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OBLIVION AT GARDALAND RESORT 2015 saw the launch of a new dive-coaster at Gardaland.
At a total investment of over 20 million, not only was this the first of its kind for the park, it was also the first for the Italian theme park market!
It was not however a completely new ride for Merlin.
The original Oblivion ride, manufactured by Bolliger & Mabillard, was opened at Alton Towers in March 1998.
Bringing the ride into the 21st century, the original concept and brand were re-developed, fusing updated and refreshed Intellectual Property with the latest in roller coaster technology.
The ride was launched at the start of the season with an excellent marketing and PR campaign, which drove very high pre-launch awareness.
Guest satisfaction KPIs were strong from launch, with the ride enjoying excellent product scores.
The strength of the Oblivion brand has allowed us to offer dedicated retail offerings which has helped drive secondary spend in the park.
Furthermore, the ride has delivered wider park benefits as the area around Oblivion has been refreshed, with noticeable uplifts in the number of guests enjoying our food and beverage, retail and other units in the vicinity.
As a further sign of the Oblivion brand strength - an internally-generated IP - and our ability to capitalise on this through our resort positioning strategy, we also opened two new Oblivion themed rooms at the Gardaland Hotel.
