Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 MIDWAY Attractions THE MIDWAY ATTRACTIONS OPERATING GROUP SAW FURTHER GROWTH IN 2015 IN THE EXISTING ESTATE.
THERE WERE STRONG PERFORMANCES IN ASIA, PARTICULARLY IN MAINLAND CHINA, AND EUROPE, ALTHOUGH LOWER VOLUMES IN OUR LONDON DIVISION AND TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS INTO HONG KONG SUPPRESSED THE OVERALL RESULT.
IN ADDITION, OUR STRATEGIC MIDWAY ROLL OUT PROGRAMME CONTINUES APACE, WITH SEVEN NEW ATTRACTIONS OPENED IN 2015 ACROSS FOUR COUNTRIES, INCLUDING THE LAUNCH OF THE NEW DREAMWORKS TOURS - SHREKS ADVENTURE!
WE TARGET OPENING 40 NEW ATTRACTIONS BY THE END OF 2020.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - MIDWAY Attractions Constant 2015 2014 Growth CurrencyGrowth Visitors m 40.0 38.1 4.9% Revenue m 561 529 6.0% 7.5% 1 1 EBITDA m 221 214 1.2% 2.0% 1 1 Operating profit m 167 167 2.4 % 1.9 % Like for like revenue growth 2.3% 1 Excluding the effect of the change in allocation of central costs in 2015.
Reference in the narrative below is made to these adjusted figures, unless otherwise stated.
Further detail is provided on page 50.
Including this reallocation, reported EBITDA and operating profit growth were 3.0% and 0.0% respectively, and 3.8% and 0.4% respectively on a constant currency basis.
Tradingperformance Existingestate The Midway Attractions Operating Group trading was robust 2015 revenue grew by 2.3% on a like for like basis, reflecting a in 2015, with continued growth in visitor numbers and revenue.
strong performance in Midway Asia, particularly in mainland Revenues grew by 7.5% on a constant currency basis, driving China, and Midway Europe.
This was offset by specific EBITDA growth of 2.0% and a decline in operating profit of challenges in London and Hong Kong.
Movements in foreign exchange rates adversely impacted reported results, resulting in revenue growth of 6.0% and Our attractions in Shanghai continue to benefit from ongoing operating profit 2.4% down against last year.
market growth in the country, and were further boosted this year by excellent new product, in particular at MT Shanghai where Overall, the Operating Group continues to benefit from both we launched a new Ice Age 4D experience see Focus on the consumers desire for high quality, branded, location based China on page 23. entertainment, and the continuing growth in visitation to large gateway cities, particularly from the burgeoning middle class in Our attraction in Hong Kong was however adversely impacted by emerging markets.
However, the attractions are exposed to travel restrictions imposed on visitors from the neighbouring city fluctuations in inbound and domestic tourist flows which of Shenzhen.
We continue to expect volumes to remain subdued have created some specific challenges in 2015. whilst this policy continues.
Midway Europe benefited from good new product and relatively favourable weather over the summer season.
This was however offset by lower volumes in London, primarily due to the persistent weakness of the Euro against Sterling impacting both domestic city breaks and inbound tourism from the key Eurozone region, with inbound tourist volumes flat in January to November source: VisitBritain.
Margins declined by 1.8%, excluding the effect of changes in the allocation of costs across the Group, as a result of the dilutive effect of new openings, and the investment in regional structures and support functions across our developing markets as we expand the estate in both North America and Asia.
This was The brand new compounded by the lower like for like revenue growth and DreamWorks Tours - Shreks the relatively fixed cost nature of the Midway Attractions Operating Group.
opened in London in July 21 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - MIDWAY Attractions Elsewhere, we also opened two LEGOLAND Discovery Centres, in Osaka, Japan and in Istanbul, Turkey.
The latter immediately formed a cluster with the existing SEA LIFE Centre located in the same shopping mall.
Finally, 2015 saw the launch of the new DreamWorks Tours - Shreks Adventure!
attraction, opened alongside our existing cluster of attractions on Londons famous South Bank.
The new brand concept has received a positive customer response, which bodes well for further potential roll out.
Lookingahead Our Midway roll out programme will see us open seven attractions in 2016, including three in Asia - a Madame Tussauds and a SEA LIFE Centre in Chongqing and the first LEGOLAND The new LEGOLAND Discovery Centre in Osaka, Japan Discovery Centre in China, to be opened in Shanghai.
Six of these attractions will be creating or adding to clusters, Capitalinvestment where we have more than one attraction in the same location, Our existing estate growth was underpinned by our strategy providing operating cost, marketing and cross-selling advantages.
of planned capital investment cycles, with each Midway attraction New attractions in Arizona, Michigan, Istanbul and Shanghai will having a high year once every five years, followed by four be located alongside existing attractions: in Chongqing, China, low years.
our two openings will create a new cluster from the outset.
This years major high year capital projects included the new Star Wars experiences at Madame Tussauds London and Berlin, and Ice Age 4D at MT Shanghai.
In the non-high capital investment years, many attractions receive mobile features which we move around the estate to several different locations over a period of years, thus maximising capital efficiency.
Customersatisfaction Our focus on customer service and investment in new products and features has seen us enjoy continued excellent guest satisfaction scores.
The Orlando Eye observation attraction in Orlando, Florida  2016 will see significant further investment in the existing estate, including a new drop ride at MT Berlin, a 4D movie in Bangkok The 2016 opening schedule reflects our longer term ambition at our MT attraction there, and penguins in SEA LIFE Sydney.
of an even geographic spread of revenue across Europe, the Americas and Asia Pacific, and also that our focus will  be primarily on cluster cities.
Our Midway roll out strategy continued apace in 2015, with seven attractions opening throughout the year.
Longer term, we continue to see scope for 100 new Midway attractions across the world.
By the end of 2020, we target SEA LIFE Michigan was the first attraction to open, in January.
opening 40 new attractions, prioritising opportunities in the As is typical of new aquariums, the attraction opened very Americas and Asia Pacific, continuing our cluster city focus.
strongly with excellent PR coverage and high penetration of the local resident market.
Our other North American openings Reinforcing our plans for growth in Asia, in October 2015, we comprised a SEA LIFE, Madame Tussauds and The Orlando Eye announced an agreement with China Media Capital which will observation attraction in Orlando, Florida.
Located on the see us form a joint venture and accelerate our Midway roll out in world-renowned I-Drive this cluster of three attractions the region.
In November we then announced plans for our first opened on the same day - another first for Merlin!
business in India, Madame Tussauds New Delhi, scheduled to open in early 2017.
22 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 FOCUSONCHINA China has been a major growth driver for Merlin in recent years, where we have continued to increase brand awareness and drive product innovation.
We have a strong pipeline of new openings, supported by the recent announcement to partner with China Media Capital.
Underpinning this growth are the rapidly expanding number of middle class households, which economic forecasts suggest could potentially increase from 47 million to 472 million over the period 2010-20.
We believe that in the fullness of time, our China Midway estate could expand to over 30 attractions.
Organic expansion OurhistoryinChina In 2013 we opened MT Wuhan, focused on the domestic market, followed in 2014 by Acquisitions MT Beijing in a great location close to Our transformational acquisition in 2007 of Tiananmen Square.
The Tussauds Group brought with it Madame Tussauds MT Shanghai and MT Hong Kong, Futuregrowth followed in 2012 by Chang Feng Ocean World, 2016 will see an MT and a SEA LIFE Centre a large aquarium in Shanghai then owned by open in Chongqing, with the first LEGOLAND Living and Leisure Australia.
Discovery Centre LDC in China also opening in Shanghai.
We have identified further sites and Our strategy to raise brand awareness and will continue to roll out our MT, SEA LIFE and increase visitor numbers at the MTs has led to LDC attractions.
several years of strong growth.
In 2015 MT Shanghai benefited from high year investment Looking further ahead, we have entered into in a new Ice Age 4D cinema, driving significant a strategic agreement with China Media increases in visitor numbers and revenue.
MT Capital, a leading investor in the media and Shanghai continues to be one of the most entertainments industries, to explore wider profitable attractions across the Merlin estate.
We plan to work with them initially to tailor our Dungeon brand to the At Chang Feng Ocean World, our focus on Chinese market and in turn leverage their improving the guest experience through an ownership of DreamWorks IP in China.
We improved product offering has yielded great hope this will see the development of other results.
This focus, on top of an already strong DreamWorks Tours attractions in China, most level of visitation, brought good price and yield likely based upon the Kung Fu Panda character.
Both of our Shanghai attractions have been buoyed by significant growth in domestic tourism.
