H a r d F M : 6 2 1 m Operating review Facilities Management The shape of 2015 2014 Growth Revenue our business today Soft FM 1,280.3m 1,190.8m 7.5% Hard FM 621.1m 595.3m 4.3% 1,901.4m 1,786.1m 6.5% Healthcare Operating 91m profit Soft FM 81.9m 74.8m 9.5% Hard FM 31.4m 25.6m 22.7% Property Management 113.3m 100.4m 12.8% 273m Operating profit margin Soft FM 6.4% 6.3% 0.1ppt Hard FM 5.1% 4.3% 0.8ppt 6.0% 5.6% 0.4ppt Mitie revenue 2015 Order book 7.6bn 7.4bn 2.7% 2.3bn Our core FM business comprises two divisions: Soft FM, which includes cleaning and environmental services, security, and catering and front of house: and Hard FM, which consists of a range of technical and building services.
Our integrated FM offering brings together the full range of soft and hard FM services in a single Facilities Management tailored proposition.
1,901m There has been a slight change to the way we report our FM results this year, with our Energy Solutions business now Facilities Management revenue split incorporated into Hard FM because it 1 supports the strengths and objectives of that division.
2 1,901m 3 4 5 2015 2014 m m 1 Cleaning and environmental service 360 363 2 Security 214 216 3 Catering and front of house 114 76 4 Hard FM 479 463 5 Integrated FM 734 668 Energy Solutions incorporated in Hard FM Mitie Group plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S o f t F M : 1, 2 8 0 m Strategic Report Governance Financial Developments during the year Our ability to deploy such broad expertise Elsewhere, our recent acquisition, The FM business performed very well demonstrates our value to clients, Source8, provides property consulting throughout the year, delivering strong supports the generation of new, profitable services across the globe for a range of organic growth of 6.1%, through important revenue streams and positions us as UK, European and US based businesses.
The a clear leader in our chosen markets.
Our Care and Custody business is also operating profit margin improved in both In addition, the introduction of a wider continuing to expand its presence in the the Soft and Hard FM divisions, reflecting mix of service lines has enabled us justice sector, where we look after a good market conditions and a continued to support our margins through the number of immigration removal centres.
introduction of consultancy activities In 2014, we successfully mobilised our Client satisfaction is central to our success to support our clients strategic estate 180m, eight-year contract to manage management objectives, with margins and we were rated the top overall service and maintain two immigration centres.
provider in the FM industry for the second consistent with those achieved by other Three years after entering the market, consultancy or professional services consecutive year in the 2014 i-FM brand we are now the largest provider of survey.
The same survey also identified businesses.
In the second half of the year, immigration detention services to the we have seen a significant contribution us as the most innovative provider with Home Office.
the best brand identity, and placed us from our consultancy stream in FM, The mobilisation process included and we expect revenues in this area to either first or second in several of the merging the two centres into one, service categories, including integrated continue to develop.
Our operationally-led, helping two discrete groups of staff professional expertise and experience FM, technical FM, cleaning and security.
adopt a new operating model based in FM is highly valued by our clients and We have made considerable progress on a central team, consistent operations the provision of selected FM consulting developing our FM business, working and centralised services such as the services will also incorporate our activities with our clients to deliver both tactical control room.
from Source8 and Utilyx going forward.
and strategic support to their activities.
For our largest clients, we utilise our Our international presence remains extensive experience to: provide tailored relatively small.
In continental Europe, we consultancy services to support their support a small number of key clients: in strategic objectives: operational solutions some countries through a self-delivery to manage and oversee the demands model and in others using supply chain of complex and changing estates: and management.
In Ireland, we have made trained people who carry out day-to-day, excellent progress since our entry into bespoke FM services.
that market in 2010, where our revenues have trebled over that time.
Our catering business, Gather & Gather, has now expanded into Ireland and has made excellent progress with the award of a number of exciting contracts there during the year.
Mitie Group plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Operating review Clients also view a providers track record Integrated FM Soft FM as a way for them to achieve assured Key clients Cleaning and environmental services quality and our broad expertise across Key clients Lloyds Banking Group multiple sectors has underpinned much of our success this year.
In the financial Tesco Rolls-Royce and professional sector, in addition Co-op Vodafone to extending our contract with Lloyds Royal Cornwall Hospitals Ministry of Justice Banking Group, we were awarded a new contract with a major insurance and St Georges Hospital BSkyB professional services company.
In the First Great Western technology and communications sector, Our integrated FM business incorporates we retained and extended our contracts the full range of hard and soft FM We are one of the UKs largest providers with both Vodafone and Eircom.
During the year it generated of cleaning, pest control, landscaping, revenue of 0.7bn, a 10% increase on Expertise in other areas, such as waste management and winter gritting, the prior year.
technology, is also critical to our success.
Investment in systems, such as our With the integrated FM UK market The cleaning business today is more management platform Miworld, has valued at around 22bn, we continued sector oriented, with a sharp focus enabled us to provide greater data and to prosper and grow, underlining a clear on the transport, commercial, retail, management information and therefore trend for clients to outsource multiple FM manufacturing, leisure and health sectors.
insight into strategic decision making services to a single partner as it offers The years highlights included contract helping clients reduce total cost of them greater access to value added retentions with clients including Ascot occupancy while still improving service advice beyond day-to-day operations.
Racecourse, Standard Life and Heathrow quality and responsiveness.
Airport, as well as new agreements with Our clients see us as their trusted adviser Santander and Arriva, where we clean, we manage all services delivered on fuel and garage 1,600 buses every day.
the account and are the single point of contact from an operational, tactical and In the healthcare sector, we secured strategic perspective.
Delivering over major cleaning contracts with Marie Curie, 95% of the services through our specialist Hull NHS Trust, Epsom and St Helier businesses means we also offer our Hospitals, as well as a soft FM contract clients a level of ownership, performance with Royal Cornwall Hospitals NHS Trust.
and value that is a critical differentiator.
In the retail and consumer goods sector, our waste management business was awarded its largest contract to date with a multinational consumer goods company, providing services across 22 sites, with a value of 18m over three years.
Our pest control business also retained its largest contract, with Sainsburys, for a further two years.
Our landscaping business is growing rapidly: during the year it was awarded its largest ever contract, as part of the FM services we will be delivering for Jones Lang LaSalle.
Mitie Group plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Security Catering and front of house Hard FM Key clients Key clients Key clients Heathrow RBS Heathrow Airport Eurostar Standard Life Ashworth & Rampton Hospitals AWE Channel 4 Tesco Jaguar Land Rover Olympia Jones Lang LaSalle Eurotunnel Co-op BBC Worldwide We provide customers with total With the UK contract catering market We deliver a full range of technical and security management, from traditional estimated at 4.2bn, our Gather & Gather building services to clients across a broad manned security to technology-led catering business continues to thrive range of market sectors.
We are the services such as remote monitoring and grow in this market.
It has created a largest provider of these services in the and pre-employment vetting services.
differentiated offer based on innovative, UK, employing over 5,000 people in this The addressable market for our services locally-sourced food and hand roasted area of the business, as well as training is around 2.5bn, which is now growing coffee.
During the year it was awarded over 120 apprentices at any one time.
at approximately 1% per annum following important new contracts, including with Our focus is on building long-term industry contraction.
White Rose, TSB and Gloucester Police.
relationships with clients, managing It also expanded into Ireland, through We follow a risk-based approach built and maintaining all of their mechanical contracts with Primark and LinkedIn.
on people, technology and consultancy and electrical engineering maintenance In London, Gather & Gather opened its and see excellent opportunities in needs.
We also provide additional, first retail caf, The Bench, situated in the sectors including critical security critical specialist services, which new Goldsmiths Centre in Clerkenwell.
environments CSE, the public sector, extend our offering and bring valuable and transport and aviation.
In CSE, we The focus for our events hospitality new opportunities to the business.
work for risk-averse clients who need business, Creativevents, shifted during the These include heating, cooling, lighting, high standards of security, such as year, from a predominantly venue-based fire and security, water treatment, AWE, Cumbrian Collaboration, Lockheed operation to an outdoor events business.
compliance, building controls, roofing Martin and BAE.
In the public sector, Highlights included the Chelsea Flower and projects.
we gained several new clients, notably Show, the RHS Hampton Court Show, The business performed well during the in the health and education sector.
Royal Ascot Silver Ring and Winter year, continuing to grow with existing We continue to dominate the aviation Wonderland at Hyde Park.
clients and building new relationships.
and transport sector, where we work The front of house team made steady Highlights include maintaining two of with clients including Eurostar, Eurotunnel, progress during the year, with a regular the largest, state of the art, data centres Birmingham Airport, airlines at Heathrow flow of contract awards and retentions, in the UK and new work awarded with Airport and Virgin Atlantic Airways.
both standalone and as part of our Heathrow and Gatwick airports, BBC integrated contracts.
Worldwide, Turner Broadcasting, Tesco and AB InBev.
Our lighting business, the largest in the UK, has had a good year, with demand for LED lighting projects driving growth in this area.
We utilise the latest technology to improve visual quality as well as significantly improving energy savings and efficiency.
Mitie Group plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Operating review Our compliance business is one Over the last 12 months we were awarded Property management of the fastest growing in the UK.
a number of property management Changing legislation means that our contracts with clients such as Circle 2015 2014 Growth clients need to stay a step ahead, and Housing, Orbit, London & Quadrant Revenue 273.4m 264.8m 3.2% we have the broadest range of services Housing Association and A2Dominion, Operating and are the market leaders in our use of while retaining key contracts with profit 10.4m 14.4m 27.8% technology in this area.
clients including Leeds Council and Operating Sovereign Housing.
With energy continuing to be a major profit margin 3.8% 5.4% 1.6ppt factor for all our clients, our energy We are the market leaders in painting and Order book 1.0bn 0.8bn 25.0% proposition provides the analytics and repair services, with national coverage, solutions that help improve efficiency and during the year we secured new Our Property Management business and reduce costs.
Through our Utilyx contracts with Home Group and A2 serves a wide range of clients in the consultancy, we enable clients to take Dominion, amongst others.
We also domestic housing market, including a more strategic approach to energy provide domestic heating services and housing associations and local authorities, issues, helping them buy better and have identified increasing opportunities through long-term contracts.
Utilyx is one of the largest to supply boiler replacements, insulation buyers of business energy in the UK, on and associated projects.
Our insurance Whilst the business delivered good behalf of its clients, making it an energy services business, which performs growth in revenues, there was some partner of choice.
In 2014, Utilyx was repair services on behalf of insurance pricing pressure in its markets during the named Most Trusted Consultancy and companies, has also made good progress year.
We experienced an acceleration also Large Consultancy of the Year at during the year.
We anticipate growth of revenues in the second half of the the Energy Live Consultancy Awards.
across these service offerings over the financial year and the pipeline of future coming year.
We are differentiated by our national scale, but have a focus on local delivery, Property management works in enabling us to service both regional and whatever way best meets clients needs.
We have continued to This includes via a variety of models such invest in technology during the year, for as bespoke partnering models, strategic example market-leading auditing tools planning, investment consultation and and engineering systems, which allows stock surveys.
An increasing number us to provide truly integrated, end-to-end of existing clients are joining the trend solutions.
We have also focused on our towards bundled services and we have account management capabilities and also seen a renewed emphasis on the our infrastructure, ensuring we continue quality of service delivery.
to provide quality services and maintain Although currently the majority of our proven track record.
revenues are derived from the public sector, the business is moving towards a sharper focus on the private rented sector, which currently accounts for 17% of the UK housing market and is experiencing high levels of growth.
Mitie Group plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Like other developed nations, the UK Healthcare has an ageing population, with the number of over 85s expected to double 2015 2014 Growth in the next 25 years.
Homecare services Revenue 91.4m 91.7m 0.3% undoubtedly benefit both the person Operating receiving care and the body funding profit 4.9m 12.7m 61.4% that care: people often prefer to remain Operating in their own homes whenever possible: profit margin 5.4% 13.8% 8.4ppt and central government and local Order book 0.4bn 0.5bn 20,0% authorities recognise homecare as a more cost-efficient alternative to care in hospitals or retirement homes.
We expect We provide homecare also known as this will also drive a long-term trend adult social care services to people who towards integrating health and social require help and support due to illness care provision.
or disability, through our MiHomecare business.
We also have Complete Group, Growth in the medium to long term will which provides nurse led complex care come from two main sources.
Firstly, solutions in the home.
Today, homecare our MiHomecare brand continues to win is in most cases publicly funded and important new contracts.
area where we anticipate growth is in working with partners such as the NHS The financial performance of this business to improve the delivery of public services.
has been impacted significantly as a Such partnerships combine the best result of the local authority spending cuts, of both private and public sectors and which is the primary client base of this can lead to a marked improvement business.
In the last year, we continued in quality accompanied by increased to focus resource on branches that efficiency and reduced costs.
We have were able to perform to the standards continued to invest in the business with that we expect and our service users a view to these medium and long-term deserve, and exit regions where local opportunities and during the year, we authority cost pressures are most intense.
were part of the UnitingCare Partnership The other major short-term challenge in which was awarded a contract to provide the homecare market relates to recruiting older peoples healthcare and adult and retaining the right number of high community services in Cambridgeshire quality care workers.
We are investing in and Peterborough.
recruitment, training and development programmes in order to ensure a pipeline of well-trained, committed staff.
While the branch closures impacted our performance during the year, we are confident of the longer-term growth drivers in the homecare market, which is valued at 17bn.
Mitie Group plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
