36 Strategic report REVIEW OF OPERATIOnS The Groups commitment to technology is RESEARCh AnD DEVElOPMEnT demonstrated by the Groups total research and development spend in 2015 of 25.4 million equal to 2.8% of sales, representing a significant increase compared to the 2014 spend of 21.7 million, 2.3% of sales and the Group anticipates increasing this by a further 1% of sales over the next three to five years.
Centres of excellence There has been a growing recognition of the benefits of consolidating research and development efforts and this is reflected in the move towards Global Materials Centres of Excellence.
The intent is that these Centres will be the acknowledged leaders in the materials science and product development of the Groups key technologies, maintaining Morgan as one of the very best advanced materials companies in the world.
Regional management, who are closest to their customers, interact with the Centres to ensure miKe mUrrAy that their efforts and focus retain a very strong ChIEF TEChnOlOGy OFFICER commercial direction.
The demand placed on the Centres is that they will provide differentiated materials technology that is scaleable across the Morgan Group and that delivers quantifiable benefits and value for the Groups customers.
MORGAn IS DEPEnDEnT On AnD DISTInGuIShED By The largest Global Materials Centre of ITS ADVAnCED MATERIAlS SCIEnCE AnD PROCESSInG Excellence is for the Insulating Fibre business CAPABIlITIES.
ThESE unDERPIn ThE GROuPS ABIlITy and this is based in Bromborough in the uK.
In 2015, the Group opened a new Centre TO ESTABlISh lOnG-TERM, COllABORATIVE for Structural Ceramics that is based at the RElATIOnShIPS WITh A DISCERnInG CuSTOMER BASE.
Stourport-on-Severn facility in the uK.
MORGAnS SIGnIFICAnT FOCuS On AnD InVESTMEnT This Centre ensures that Morgan maintains its position at the leading edge of advanced In RESEARCh AnD DEVElOPMEnT AllOWS ThE GROuP ceramics science and manufacturing technology.
TO MAInTAIn ThIS MARKET ADVAnTAGE.
The Insulating Fibre Centre is a state-of-the-art facility employing 25 dedicated scientists focused on the continued development of Morgans fibre One of the key execution priorities identified research and development product range.
Morgans market-leading low as part of the review of strategy is to improve The long-term profitable strength of Morgan bio-persistent Superwool fibre technology the technical leadership of Morgan and to Advanced Materials plc depends on constantly and product range continue to be developed accelerate new product development.
refreshing the innovation pipeline to anticipate, with patented materials science.
Morgan is now or respond to, market needs.
The Groups extending the operational temperature range, The Groups research and development research and development activities are allowing it to provide customers with superior strategy will continue to be governed by headed and co-ordinated by the Chief insulation performance, improved fire protection three key underlying principles: Technology Officer, Dr Mike Murray, with and weight-saving opportunities in more research and development resource deployed applications.
There has been particular success Establishing Global Material Centres across the globe.
Whilst some Regions or across a range of end-markets such as iron of Excellence to build critical mass businesses may pursue local technology and steel, aluminium processing, automotive and focused expertise in our core initiatives, the focus is primarily on those things and passive fire protection.
that can be developed at scale to be rolled out using technology as a key promoter across the whole of Morgans infrastructure for the whole of the Groups product and for this reason the Group is presenting portfolio to the largest or largest the technology review in a single place.
Driving innovation and sales growth and targeting our chosen markets through the new Business Development Pipeline nBDP and our technology roadmaps.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 37 The Structural Ceramics Centre in Stourport As part of the increasing focus on technology insulation offers the low thermal oversees the major materials science and innovation, the Group created a Morgan conductivity needed in hot piping developments for the Group, allowing greater Technical Advisory Board.
The Group identified applications to ensure that materials inside global leverage on major scaleable programmes.
world-leading academics from around the globe are insulated from ambient conditions, The facility will focus on leading-edge ceramic who are recognised as subject-matter experts in addition to protecting workers from materials developments to support both for a number of Morgans key technology burns due to contact with non-insulated current and new markets.
This provides a sounding board hot piping.
has been on major opportunities that have for Morgans plans for technical development A new lighter weight metallised current been identified in the medical, aerospace of ceramic, carbon and polymer composite collector strip pantograph for rail and environmental sectors, whilst a focus on products and processes and keeps Morgan transportation, which enhances rail system new emerging markets and technologies also Advanced Materials plc abreast of the latest reliability and extends service life by about ensures that Morgan Advanced Materials plc developments in materials science and 35%.
The new collector strips boast an stays at the forefront of materials science.
advises on new areas where there may arc protection system, which maximises This will include enhancing the Groups be opportunities for the Group.
collector strip life, reducing maintenance network of global technology partners to and running costs for rail contractors.
ensure it is positioned to work with the As part of this approach, Morgan is working The system also provides improved worlds best academics and research institutes.
with the worlds best research centres around service for passengers, since the collector the globe, ensuring that we maintain and strips require less frequent replacement, Two more Centres of Excellence are planned, develop our leading edge in materials science drastically reducing downtime.
The new one for Brazing and Joining, in support of the in new and emerging applications.
One such lighter metallised collector strips are Technical Ceramics business, and one for collaboration was formalised when Morgan the latest addition to Morgans line of Carbon science, that will support the Electrical Advanced Materials plc announced a new joint performance carbon and metallised Carbon and Seals and Bearings businesses.
development agreement with The university carbon current collector strips for metro The Group will continue to assess the benefits of Manchester, aimed at scaling up a new systems, high-speed trains, trams and of the formation of more Global Materials process for manufacturing graphene a onetrolley buses.
atom thick carbon allotrope first isolated at the After continued research and development university 10 years ago and for which a nobel in its technical ceramics manufacturing These Centres are supported by the Morgan Prize was awarded.
The worlds thinnest capabilities, Morgan now has the capability Technology Advisory Board, which is made up material and a potent conductor, graphene to manufacture balls with a bore diameter of some the worlds leading academics, to help is also extremely lightweight, chemically inert of up to 250mm in diameter for severe ensure the Group maintains and develops its and has a large surface area which means, service valves from its acclaimed nilcra leading edge in new and emerging materials with further research and testing, that it could zirconia-based material.
Previously, valve science around the globe.
change the way we think about electrical and balls have only been available in bore chemical engineering.
diameter sizes of up to 150mm but the Supporting morgans unified approach trend in process industries to reduce cost Some of the specific areas of technology-led to its markets by designing systems with larger pipe success in the Group in 2015 are: The Groups materials technology is and will diameters which require fewer devices remain a unifying feature across its organisation A new high-performance nitrite-bonded overall has led Morgan to create a structure.
Major technology initiatives are silicon carbide material kiln furniture capability to manufacture balls in this larger effectively co-ordinated and new products suitable for use at temperatures of up to size.
The product is ideal for use with flow effectively rolled out across the global 1,500C 2,732F.
The material, known control valves operating in industries such customer base ensuring that maximum value is as halsic-n, combines the properties as mineral processing, oil and gas, and pulp derived from the investment made in product of proven materials such as silicon carbide and paper.
nilcra delivers exceptional and process development.
During 2015, many SiC and silicon nitride Si3n4 in a strength and toughness together with meetings have been held with the Groups microstructure which delivers strength, erosion and corrosion resistance and is excellent refractory properties and major existing and potential customers, where therefore frequently used in place of resistance to oxidation and thermal shock.
the Groups senior commercial and technology conventional materials such as metal alloys Thermocouple protection tubes made management have successfully presented the to provide longer component lifetimes.
from halsic-n are ideal for the melting Groups product and technology portfolio in The materials properties make it ideal of non-ferrous metals such as aluminium a single, consistent way, allowing the full range for use with slurries generated in mineral and magnesium, where its strong of the Groups capabilities to be demonstrated.
processing as well as abrasive rock particles metal-repelling characteristics help ensure There has been excellent engagement from and sand encountered in oil and gas long service life and optimum a number of these customers and this initiative extraction and processing.
has now effectively been built in to the way the ability to withstand high actuation torques Group does business and is expected to bring The development of its WDS applied during valve operation, has led further benefits in 2016 and beyond.
ultraShell microporous insulation, to nilcra being regularly specified by whose superior insulating properties make the worlds five largest valve OEMs for driving innovation and growth it ideal for energy sector applications more than 25 years.
The Group uses a consistent, systematic process demanding hot piping, including power for managing new business development across plants, refineries, and renewable energy the whole Morgan Group.
Morgans Porextherm WDS the Group to identify the largest and most ultraShell solution enables the profitable growth opportunities and allows construction of smaller, lighter, and more decisions to be effectively made in terms of cost-effective double wall pipe in pipe hot deployment of resource on those opportunities.
WDS ultraShell AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 38 Strategic report REVIEW OF OPERATIOnS continued business description Footprint nORTh AMERICA For Morgan Advanced Materials plc, the north As at 31 December 2015 the north America America Region comprises the uSA, Canada Region comprises 23 operating sites employing and Mexico.
The principal hIGhlIGhTS manufacturing sites are in the uSA, Canada The majority of businesses in the Region The financials of the north America Region and Mexico.
The Mexican operations are used saw a decline in revenue in the second-half comprise those of all the businesses that are to satisfy both the local market and, more of 2015 having achieved revenue growth located within those countries, including importantly and increasingly, as an effective in the first-half.
For the full year, revenue the sales made directly to and profits from low-cost point of supply to the uSA and to decreased by 2.3% at constant currency third-party customers outside of the Region.
other Morgan businesses across the world.
Sales made to Morgan companies outside The Region also has a comprehensive network Region continues to deliver Group-leading of the Region are not included in north of sales offices allowing immediate access to mid-teen margins.
Americas reported revenue but the profit and facilitating direct working with end-users.
made on these inter-Regional sales is included Some sales, particularly for the insulating fibre in north Americas results.
and crucibles product ranges, are made REVENUE through a well-established distributor network.
m The north America Region offers the full Morgan product range and the vast majority Performance 2015 368.4 of revenue is from products made within the Revenue for the north America Region 2014 353.1 Region.
north America has a number of for the year was 368.4 million, representing important primary processing sites that provide an increase of 4.3% compared with Morgan businesses across the world with base REGIONAL EBITA 353.1 million in 2014.
At constant currency, m materials, semi-finished and sometimes year on year revenue decreased by 2.3%.
finished products, particularly in the electrical Revenue in the second-half of 2015 was 6.7% 2015 51.5 brush and seals and bearings businesses.
lower than the first-half at constant currency.
2014 52.5 As shown in the chart to the left, north EBITA for the Region was 51.5 million 2014: America serves all of the Groups chosen 52.5 million with the margin maintained in NORTH AMERICA end-markets.
Of the three Regions, it currently the mid-teen range at 14.0% 2014: 14.9%.
2015 % OF REVENUE has the greatest proportion of revenue from the higher margin end-markets such as aerospace, included in transportation, and healthcare.
Energy 6% Transportation 31% Security and defence 6% Healthcare 7% Electronics 14% Petrochemical 6% Industrial 30% Definitions of the measures can be found in the Glossary of terms.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 39 The north America Region incurred 0.9 million business review of restructuring costs and other one-off items The north America Region experienced a in the year 2014: 0.8 million relating weak second-half of 2015 across the majority to headcount reductions at a number of sites.
of its businesses compared to the first-half, resulting in a 2.3% decrease in constant During the year there was a review of the currency revenue year on year.
Thermal carrying value of assets that support the vehicle Ceramics for the year was marginally down and personal protection and high-temperature on 2014 by 1.0%, with the second-half down furnace-lining businesses in north America.
9.8% compared to the second-half of 2014.
Both of these businesses saw significant growth The decline in large project orders coupled and investment in previous years but more with a reduction in orders in automotive, recently they have been in decline.
The oil and gas and general industrial applications expected future cash flows from these were the major reasons for this decline.
The businesses have been compared with the book Technical Ceramics business continued to value of the property, plant and equipment that experience a mixed trading landscape with is dedicated to them and it has been flat revenue half-on-half with some positive determined that a total impairment charge of growth from consumer electronics offset 5.9 million is required.
An income tax credit by declines in other parts of the business.
of 2.1 million was recognised in respect of The Certech business, which supplies ceramic the impairment charge.
The 5.9 million of cores used in the manufacture of turbine blades, impairment loss forms part of the total plant and has continued to improve its operational equipment impairment loss of 6.6 million and yields in 2015, with EBITA margins improving, has been reported as a specific adjusting item.
however yields and operational performance need to improve further in 2016 in order to achieve acceptable profit levels.
Seals and Bearings was negatively impacted by oil and gas in the second-half as well as a general slowdown in trading and a further reduction in body armour revenue to a very low level of business.
The order book in north America has declined each month through the second-half of 2015 with the full-year book-to-bill ratio at December 2015 at 0.98 times.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 40 Strategic report REVIEW OF OPERATIOnS continued business description Footprint EuROPE For Morgan, the Europe Region is defined As at 31 December 2015 the Europe Region as the uK, Continental Europe and Russia, comprises 25 operating sites and employs but excludes Turkey, which is reported in Asia approximately 2,700 people.
The principal hIGhlIGhTS Rest of World.
The financials of Europe manufacturing sites are in the uK, France, Full-year like-for-like sales growth comprise all of the Morgan Advanced Germany, luxembourg, Italy and hungary.
of 1.7% compared to 2014 despite Materials businesses that are located within a weaker second-half of the year.
It includes the sales The Region also has a number of sales offices Full-year EBITA margin declined to made directly to and profits from third-party providing Regional coverage and customer 11.7% 2014: 12.2%.
Sales made to proximity, allowing the Regions people to Morgan companies outside the Region are not work directly with end-users.
Some use is also included in Europes reported revenue but the made of well-established distribution networks.
profit made on these inter-Regional sales is included in Europes results.
Performance Revenue for the Europe region for the year REVENUE The Europe Region offers the full Morgan was 305.7 million, representing a decrease of m product range and the vast majority of 6.1% compared to 2014.
At constant currency revenue is from products made within the and adjusting for the impact of acquisitions and 2015 305.7 Region.
Certain specific grades of material and exits, the increase was 1.7%.
2014 325.7 some finished products are sourced from the north America and Asia Rest of World Regions.
EBITA for the region decreased to 35.8 REGIONAL EBITA million 2014: 39.8 million, with the full-year m As shown in the chart to the left, Europe margin reduced to 11.7% 2014: 12.2%.
serves all of the Groups chosen end-markets.
2015 35.8 The Region has a broad spread of end-market 2014 39.8 exposure.
The security and defence revenue is primarily from the Composites and Defence Systems C&DS business.
EUROPE 2015 % OF REVENUE Energy 4% Transportation 14% Security and defence 12% Healthcare 6% Electronics 2% Petrochemical 8% Industrial 54% Definitions of the measures can be found in the Glossary of terms.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 41 As a result of the continued reduction in As reported in the 2014 Annual Report business review demand on C&DS from uK MoD, the review and Accounts, in January 2015 the Group The Thermal Ceramics business achieved of the carrying value of the remaining completed the sale of a Thermal Ceramics good organic revenue growth of 10.7% at intangible assets of C&DS resulted in a further business in Wissembourg, France.
The Group constant currency compared to 2014, with impairment charge of 5.8 million, relating to incurred a loss on the disposal of 6.1 million large project orders from north America and a full impairment of the customer relationships.
in 2015, in addition to the 1.9 million of the Middle East the main drivers for this.
The Following this impairment charge, the carrying business exit costs recognised in the 2014 other businesses in Europe had a much more value of the C&DS intangibles was 9.8 million, accounts, both of which were reported as mixed performance, as the second-half of all in respect of technology and trademarks.
2015 saw declines in demand across many This was supported by the current expectations end markets.
Revenue growth in Seals and of the future trading performance of the C&DS Bearings was close to 2% for the full year but business.
An income tax credit of 1.0 million the second-half was marginally weaker than was recognised in respect of the impairment the second-half of 2014, reflecting the impact charge.
This has been reported as a specific of oil and gas market declines.
Carbon business was down 3.5% year on year at constant currency reflecting softer general In April 2006, the Group acquired a 51% industrial demand.
Technical Ceramics shareholding in Morgan Thermal Ceramics revenue in the period fell 3.0% at constant Sukhoy log limited liability Company currency, with end-market conditions generally Sukhoy, a fibre business based near soft, but particularly in the piezoceramics yekaterinburg, Russia.
The results and assets product range that serves the aerospace, of Sukhoy have previously been consolidated automotive, marine and medical markets.
on the basis that the Group was satisfied that it The C&DS business saw a further decline exercised management control.
During 2015, in second-half revenue with this business there has been a deterioration in the relationship continuing to operate in a difficult uK defence between Morgan and the minority partner.
As market whilst still looking to develop new a result, it became clear to the Group towards business to increase its international and wider the end of 2015 that it no longer had effective commercial exposure.
control of the business and that it was no longer appropriate to consolidate.
Based The order book in Europe has declined on the recent financial performance and the through the second-half of 2015 with the Groups view of the future prospects of the full-year book-to-bill ratio at December 2015 retained investment that the Group holds it at 0.98 times.
was concluded that the value of the Groups investment in Sukhoy is nil.
As a result the The Europe Region incurred 1.2 million of Group has recognised a 2.8 million charge in restructuring costs and other one-off items business exit costs in the 2015 accounts which in the year 2014: 1.2 million relating to has been reported as a specific adjusting item.
headcount reductions at a number of sites.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 42 Strategic report REVIEW OF OPERATIOnS continued business description Performance ASIA REST OF WORlD For Morgan Advanced Materials plc, the Revenue for the Asia Rest of World Region Asia Rest of World Region comprises Asia, for the year was 237.7 million, representing Australasia, India, Africa, the Middle East a decrease of 2.1% compared with 242.9 hIGhlIGhTS including Turkey, and South America.
On a like-for-like basis, The Region experienced headwinds financials of the Region comprise those of all revenue decreased by 1.5%.
in trading with revenue down 1.5% on the businesses that are located within those a like-for-like basis.
China remained the countries, including the sales made directly to EBITA for the Region was 27.5 million principal headwind with revenue down and profits from third-party customers outside 2014: 31.2 million, a margin of 11.6% 11.2% year on year.
Sales made to Morgan companies 2014: 12.8%.
EBITA margin at reported rates reduced outside the Region are not included in Asia to 11.6% 2014: 12.8%.
Rest of Worlds reported revenue but the business review profit made on these inter-Regional sales Trading conditions in the Region have been is included in Asia Rest of Worlds results.
China revenue fell by 11.2% compared to 2014 on a constant REVENUE The Asia Rest of World Region offers the currency basis.
The Chinese domestic market m full Morgan product range.
The Region has has been weak through 2015 across the significant manufacturing capability and capacity industrial markets served with large project 2015 237.7 for insulating fibre, including Superwool, and orders particularly impacted.
Indian revenue 2014 242.9 firebrick and some capacity for electrical brush was down by 3.0%, whilst the first-half of 2015 material, however it does source a large was encouraging, the second-half saw general amount of material, semi-finished and finished REGIONAL EBITA weakness across industrial markets.
South East m products from Morgan businesses in north Asia, including Korea, continued to achieve America and Europe, either finishing locally revenue growth, up 13.3% year on year 2015 27.5 or selling finished products to end customers.
Other parts 2014 31.2 of the Region were mixed, the Middle East As shown in the chart to the left, the Asia Rest flat year on year, while the South American of World Region serves all the Groups chosen business continued to experience very weak ASIA REST OF WORLD end-markets.
The majority of revenue in the economic conditions.
The Molten Metal 2015 % OF REVENUE Region is currently from industrial markets, Systems business with approximately 50% but there is a significant opportunity to drive of its revenue in the Region, continued to a positive mix shift through increased sales experience weak demand in Asia offset by to markets such as aerospace and healthcare.
improved demand in the Middle East.
lower revenue in China and reduced profitability Footprint in South America were the two main As at 31 December 2015 the Asia Rest of contributors to the margin reduction in 2015.
World Region comprised 24 operating sites employing approximately 2,750 people.
The The order book in Asia Rest of World overall principal manufacturing sites are located in was steady through the second-half of 2015 China, India, South Korea, Australia, Japan, with the full-year book-to-bill ratio at Energy 12% Brazil and Argentina.
These manufacturing December 2015 at 1.04 times.
Transportation 17% sites are supported by a network of sales and Security and defence 1% application engineers to ensure that customers The Region incurred 0.1 million of Healthcare 2% are well supported across this large Region restructuring costs and other one-off items Electronics 3% with the appropriate Morgan resource.
in the year 2014: 3.6 million relating to the Petrochemical 14% Where appropriate, use is also made of net of the charge for headcount reductions third-party distributors.
at a number of sites 0.6 million and the gain Industrial 51% on the sale of properties 0.5 million.
Definitions of the measures can be found in the Glossary of terms.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 43 The strategic objective to drive the outlook PRIORITIES AnD OuTlOOK performance of the Electrical Carbon and The Groups book-to-bill ie orders received Seals and Bearings businesses to mid-teen compared with sales made was 0.99 times margins and beyond has resulted in the As a result of the decision to move to a new and the Groups outstanding order book at the Group undertaking a significant rationalisation organisation structure the priorities and end of 2015 was approximately 5% lower than of the carbon material footprint.
This started outlook are provided at a Group level rather at the end of 2014. in 2014 in Europe with the downsizing of than by Region.
activities at the Swansea, uK site and has The book-to-bill profile has been mixed across continued in 2015 with the decision to and the Groups regions and businesses but there Priorities the announcement of the cessation of carbon has been an underlying trend of softening The Groups priorities have been set out in the material manufacturing at the Shanghai, China market conditions through much of the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 7 site.
These operations will be consolidated second-half of 2015, though this appears to to 9 of this Annual Report.
The mediuminto other Group locations, mainly the uSA.
have flattened out towards the end of the year.
to longer-term vision is for Morgan Advanced This decision has resulted in a charge of 1.5 The Group remains cautious about the macroMaterials plc to be renowned for world-class million in 2015, 0.7 million of which relates economic conditions for 2016 and the Groups materials science, application engineering and to the impairment loss on plant and equipment priorities are heavily focused on realising customer focus, and for these to underpin the and the balance to site clean-up costs and benefits from operational improvements, delivery of resilient financial performance and other write-offs.
0.4 million is expected to whilst ensuring an appropriate level of faster growth.
The six execution priorities set be settled in cash in 2016.
An income tax investment in R&D, sales effectiveness the immediate focus of Group, Divisional and credit of 0.2 million was recognised in respect and people development to make the best Global Business unit management for 2016. of these restructuring costs.
These costs have of the current environment and to position been reported as specific adjusting items.
the Group for growth when wider market The move to the new global structure has conditions improve.
been announced today, but significant planning has taken place and the Groups most immediate priority is to ensure that the transition goes as smoothly as possible and that there is minimal disruption to the Groups day-to-day operations, both in terms of the Groups sites and employees and their interaction with customers and suppliers.
The focus of the Divisional, Global Business unit and functional management teams will immediately be on the successful execution of the technology, operational, sales and people priorities set out on pages 8 and 9.
Whilst these priorities may vary in terms of relative importance across the individual Global Businesses they will provide the key principles for all of Morgans businesses and management and the metrics against which performance will be measured and assessed.
Attention will also be given to and resource deployed to ensure that the Group is simplified and that the whole of the Morgan portfolio of businesses satisfies the characteristic set out in the Group strategy on pages 8 and 9.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS
