Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information OPERATING REVIEW and most acutely in new operating areas where readiness to launch our Customer First Building Responsibly and Sustainably we need to establish a base of subcontractors initiative.
Customer First is being rolled-out As well as ensuring we deliver homes built to I AM DELIGHTED TO REPORT A SIGNIFICANT INCREASE IN high standards, we are also conscious of the that can meet our demanding standards.
As a across the business throughout financial year need to build responsibly and sustainably.
TURNOVER AND PRE-TAX PROFITS, BOTH A RECORD FOR THE GROUP consequence we have faced build delays that 2016.
It more closely engages with customers inevitably have a knock-on effect to customer at an early stage with managers dedicated to Last year we increased build output by over satisfaction.
We have also seen build costs providing a high level of service supported by 20% but despite this, we managed to reduce increase during the year.
Material prices have the latest hand-held technology.
Customer our notifiable accidents per site from 0.37 in stabilised but labour costs, particularly for those First will complement Redrows reputation for 2014 to 0.23 in 2015.
We were also successful trades in short supply, have risen substantially: delivering well designed quality homes with in the annual NHBC Safety Awards with three we estimate that overall build costs have industry leading customer service.
of our Site Managers, from a total of 29 across increased by in excess of 5% over the past year the country, being highly commended.
On the subject of quality, for the second time and we anticipate this trend will continue for in the last three years, a Redrow Site Manager sometime to come.
We do however expect any Our developments continue to reduce their was the supreme winner for the large builder build cost increases will be more than offset by impact upon the environment and make category in the NHBC Pride in the Job Awards.
increasing contributions to local communities.
Rob Summers, our Site Manager at Cwm Calon Our carbon emissions are down and 56% of It was very pleasing to once again achieve a in South Wales, was the eventual winner with the homes we built last year contained five star rating in the annual HBF Customer Paul Greenaway our Site Manager at The recycling facilities and 57% were on Satisfaction Awards.
However balancing the Harringtons in Exeter also reaching the final.
We almost doubled the need to deliver on time against rising customer This year we have been awarded a record John Tutte amount of public open space we created to expectations means that maintaining a 90% 18 Pride in the Job Awards.
Group Chief Executive 209 hectares and committed 128m of funds or better rating is becoming more challenging.
To address this we have invested heavily in customer service over the past year increasing The Group has reported an excellent financial unfounded and the unequivocal outcome has We try hard to overcome these planning Product at the Centre of Divisional Growth both the size and quality of our teams in performance for the year.
Total completions brought further stability to the market, obstacles by consulting with local communities Our product differentiates us from our major exceeded 4,000 with private sales increasing particularly with the announcement that Help and working closely with planning competitors.
Throughout our developments we by 16% in the year.
Turnover was at record to Buy in England is to be extended to 2020. departments.
Indeed, at Maidenhead, where focus on delivering homes that are both levels with private revenues above 1bn for Sadly the Welsh Assembly has yet to make such Harrow Estates recently achieved planning attractive and functional.
We have an STRATEGY IN ACTION the first time in the Groups history.
a commitment which is affecting the industrys permission for 271 new homes on a brownfield unwavering attention to detail and a confidence to invest for the future.
site released from the greenbelt, we were programme of continuous improvement that Central to the Groups strategy is the quality complimented by the planning committee on ensures our designs respond to changing trends of its product, but fundamental to these strong Wales aside, the prospects for the housing MAINTAIN A QUALITY LAND BANK our collaborative approach.
My Redrow is also A QUALITY results is the dedication and expertise of the market elsewhere are encouraging.
The reinforcing our commitment to provide LAND ACQUISITION, CADDINGTON, BEDFORDSHIRE LAND BANK people we employ across the business.
A team underlying improvement in the economy Tackling the industrys skills shortage has been customers with greater choice to tailor their of people that has grown by over 20% in the coupled with a competitive mortgage market a priority for us in recent years.
We have homes to meet their needs: last year we sold Redrow acquired a former test track and past year with a significant proportion of those means more people can afford to buy their first annually increased our intake of trainees and 10m of extras to customers.
storage centre from General Motors in new recruits being young people taking their home or trade-up, and a more active housing apprentices and now employ c. 250 young December 2014.
The 59 acre brownfield site The Heritage Collection accounts for around first career steps.
We now employ over 1,650 market is also allowing many to trade-down as people on structured training programmes situated within the Bedfordshire Green Belt 80% of private volumes and underpins the people of which 15% are on structured training a lifestyle choice.
The key to meeting the across the business.
We also continue to has an outline planning permission for the Groups enviable reputation for designing and programmes including 130 apprentices.
And it increase in demand and tackling the severe develop our people at all levels and last year development of up to 325 homes and a building high quality well-planned homes.
We is very reassuring to know that our people rate housing shortage hinges upon bringing more we completed 3,859 days of training, a 30% community centre.
have extended the range during the year to working for us so highly: in our most recent sites through the planning system and increase: much of this was carried out at our include more house types aimed at those employee survey, 97% of those that responded addressing the skills shortage.
dedicated training centre or remotely through More than 30 acres of the site will be looking to trade down.
said they enjoy the work they do for Redrow e-learning.
We have extended our graduate given over to open space and woodland Managing Increased Demand and 95% think we are a good employer.
programme and introduced a Higher with the remaining area creating a leafy The Regent Collection with its traditional The last government did a lot to improve the Apprenticeship scheme for engineers and and green setting for homes from elevations and modern interiors is proving The Market planning system and the new administrations designers in partnership with Glyndr Redrows Heritage Collection.
popular amongst buyers looking to live in The early months of the financial year were recently published productivity plan Fixing University.
For the second year running we higher density housing in urban environments.
The innovative part of the development tougher by comparison to the summer of 2013 the foundations: creating a more prosperous have been listed as a Top 100 Apprenticeship Abode is our contemporary version of Regent plan is for 46 affordable homes to be that was buoyed by the introduction of the nation, sets out a clear intention and Employer in the National Apprenticeship sharing similar footprints but with simple provided at no cost to a community trust Governments Help to Buy scheme in the determination to build more homes that Service awards.
It is very satisfying that our modern elevations and open plan living space.
The rental income from Spring of that year.
Help to Buy continues to be people can afford.
Whilst a well training and career development programmes The number of Regent and Abode outlets is these homes will be used to fund a local an attractive incentive for our buyers and communicated policy at government level is are helping to deliver our future managers and expected to steadily increase.
bus service and other facilities which will accounted for around 40% of reservations in essential to building more homes, ultimately leaders with over half of our annual Director benefit residents of the development and the year with the largest take-up being those delivery is very much in the hands of local appointments coming from internal We are able to apply the same attention to the neighbouring community.
authorities where all too often planning is promotions.
detail we have on our standard ranges to stifled by local politics, a lack of resources Our design team are finalising details for bespoke solutions.
Most of these developments As the year progressed the market improved and unnecessary bureaucracy.
To materially Notwithstanding our commitment to tackling the development with work scheduled to are apartment schemes, particularly in London, with both sales rates and prices lifting.
Concerns increase output these fundamental issues the skills shortage, we continue to experience start later this year.
although in places such as South Cerney in the over the impact of the election were largely have to be addressed.
trade shortages in some parts of the country Cotswolds, we have created one-off designs for Aerial photograph of Caddington, Bedfordshire site lakeside living.
26 27 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information OPERATING REVIEW CO N T I N U ED The number of private apartments completed of this parliament, has created a hiatus new division each year in 2014 we London during the year increased by 24% and that will affect the delivery of social established a West Country division based London will now operate as a region in its STRATEGY IN ACTION represented 14.8% of private sales compared housing in the short-term.
in Exeter that has made a significant own right.
The new region will cover all London to 13.9% last year.
Social housing, as a contribution in the year and we recently split boroughs.
It will bring together the expertise Our nationwide reputation for designing and consequence of the timing of delivery, our business in the East to create divisions and skills we have amassed developing sites in MY REDROW building quality homes on well-planned sites INDUSTRY reduced from 17.6% in 2014 to 14.2% in 2015. north and south of the Thames.
We have also the Capital and allow us to undertake more of INDUSTRY LEADING SALES AND MARKETING LEADING SALES has supported our divisional growth.
The & MARKETING Although moving forward this position will recently announced a reorganisation of our our own construction with less reliance upon Heritage Collection in particular has been be reversed and social housing is set to be a London operation to meet our planned growth main contractors.
Initially there will be two My Redrow, our direct internet channel to our customers, has grown from strength to the bedrock for growth in our new regional larger proportion of output, the governments in the fastest growing area in the country.
divisions with capacity to add a third at some strength since launching in April 2013.
It continues to lead the way in the housebuilding divisions.
We continue to expand and open a announcement regarding year-on-year point in the future.
industry, providing our customers with support from their initial search to moving into reductions in social rents for the duration their new Redrow home.
The Colindale Gardens division will focus entirely on delivering this highly important It also enables them to personalise their home by choosing from an extensive range of development for the Group.
We recently extras and upgrades for their home, which can all be ordered online.
STRATEGY IN ACTION received a resolution to grant planning for Now with c. 27,000 members and growing by an average of 1,000 new members per 2,900 new homes and up to 100,000 sq ft month, My Redrow was substantially upgraded and moved to a faster operating platform of commercial space.
Under the planning HOUSE TYPE DESIGN PRODUCE in March 2015. agreement we will be providing healthcare A QUALITY PRODUCE A QUALITY PRODUCT PRODUCT and nursery facilities, land for a new school, The re-vamped My Redrow includes new features to further improve the online a significant contribution to upgrade customer experience.
Since the launch of the Arts & Crafts influenced Heritage Collection We have worked closely with our kitchen designers to achieve Colindale tube station and 4 hectares of We worked closely with a number of existing My Redrow members who were keen to in 2010 we have further developed our housing portfolio.
We have handle-less kitchen units presented as floating island and peninsular public open space and gardens.
Colindale support us and provided feedback both on the prototype and first release beta test introduced large houses with an enhanced specification including our units: a contemporary and desirable feature.
Open plan layouts Gardens has a gross development value of platform.
Their involvement and support has been invaluable in providing a customer Premier house types and our Regent Collection of elegant townhouses.
maximise space and light, giving customers the ability to use their over 1bn and is expected to take ten years centric solution.
Homes also have the advantage of underfloor to build.
We have also thought outside the box to develop our Abode heating and wet rooms for a quality spacious feel.
Since the re-launch weve had a fantastic response from our customers, who are telling us Collection of homes, which bring modern apartment-style living The Greater London division will oversee how much easier the new design is to use.
Weve seen this culminate in a record month in to a two-storey house type environment.
our other sites across the Capital including April for sales of optional extras totalling 1.4 million.
our Joint Venture in Croydon.
My Redrow will continue to evolve and additional enhancements are already in planning.
The new region will have a number of centralised functions including land buying, sales and marketing, customer service and finance.
Abode at Buckley, Flintshire Customer using My Redrow, our direct internet channel Blake Tower, The Barbican, London 28 29 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information OPERATING REVIEW CO N T I N U ED To preserve our growth, last year we acquired Colindale and Woodford in Stockport on-track part of the country: over half the owned and just under 6,000 plots across 52 sites and, to contribute.
We also added over 1,300 plots contracted land bank is now in the South and STRATEGY IN ACTION after taking into account legal completions, to the Forward Land bank after taking into Greater London and this is expected to land sales and replans, our owned and account transfers and adjustments as a result increase further with sites such as Colindale contracted land bank increased by nearly of our regular strategic review.
COMMERCIAL AND TECHNICAL APPRENTICES TRAINING 1,500 plots to 18,216. uncertainty over emerging local planning FOR THE TRAINING FOR THE FUTURE Despite a strengthening housing market, we policies, we have taken a particularly cautious FUTURE The Forward Land portfolio continues to make have found plenty of land opportunities within view on sites within the greenbelt.
an important contribution to the owned land the areas we operate that can be acquired on Two new apprentice programmes are helping to ensure a steady the apprentice programme there is the opportunity to go on to bank.
Last year we pulled-through 1,975 plots The geographical spread of the land bank is terms that meet our hurdle rates and we flow of talented, enthusiastic and suitably skilled young people into complete a fully accredited RICS degree.
across 22 sites and we expect 2016 will be trending towards the south as we focus on expect this to continue to be the case.
particularly strong with over 3,800 plots at opening more outlets and divisions in this Our Technical Apprentice programme, developed with Coleg Cambria Weve developed a two year Commercial Apprenticeship with Coleg and Glyndr University, combines a formal learning programme Cambria and the Chartered Surveyors Trust.
Apprentices are working delivered in-house and on the job practical experience.
The course STRATEGY IN ACTION towards their BTEC Diploma in Construction and the Built Environment covers designing new housing developments, including planning and and NVQ Level 3 in Quantity Surveying, with training taking place on a drawing site layouts, plus engineering design for associated roads, block release basis at our UK headquarters or national training centre.
Apprentices complete a BTEC Diploma in CUSTOMER FIRST Construction and the Built Environment and an NVQ in either Civil EXCELLENT Each apprentice is based in the commercial team at one of our CUSTOMER EXCELLENT CUSTOMER SERVICE Engineering or Architectural Technology.
On completing their SERVICE Divisional offices, where they learn all aspects of quantity surveying, apprenticeship they can progress to a fully accredited degree at e. g. estimating project costs, tendering, purchasing and ensuring that Glyndr University.
Over the last year, we sold over 4,000 homes.
Throughout that time N ew handover policies for finished homes allowing more developments are delivered within budget.
Following completion of weve been measuring how happy our customers are and how likely time for any remedial works they are to recommend us to other people.
A r e-engineered customer journey, proactively introducing the customer service team at the earliest opportunity and With more importance being placed on good customer service developing relationships than ever before, weve been working on a company-wide customer service strategy, aptly named Customer First.
Were committed U pdates to the website and bespoke customer service to making continuous improvements in customer service and we management software are targeting an increase in our Net Promoter Score NPS over the Brand new web and app platforms to support our customers course of the year.
Over the next few months we will finish rolling out the most Over the last 12 months we have implemented a number of positive comprehensive improvements to customer service that Redrow changes across the business, including: has ever seen, helping to ensure we give our customers the best experience possible.
An organisational restructure of all customer service departments Technical Apprentices attended a weeks block release BTEC Level 3 Diploma course, delivered by Coleg Cambria, at Redrows head office, St Davids Park The Central London market softened during Investing to Grow Outlets increase of 14.
In financial year 2016 we the year in response to the threat of mansion As our sales rates and average selling prices expect to open around 55 new outlets, after tax, increases in Stamp Duty Land Tax and reach optimal levels, our future growth will rely taking into account a higher number of uncertainties in the wider global economy.
As largely on increasing the number of outlets closures weighted to the second-half, we a consequence, we curtailed our land buying from which we operate and expanding our are forecasting to end the year on 128 outlets in the so called super prime areas and divisional structure.
and maintain our strong track-record of focused more on sites in the outer London increasing outlets year-on-year: by the end of Last year we opened 54 new outlets, and after boroughs where demand is strong and selling this financial year our outlets will have grown taking into account the closure of 40, we prices remain affordable for those that work by over 50% since 2012. ended the year on 117 active outlets: a net in the Capital.
Our newly launched iPad application Redrow Fine Tune 30 31 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information OPERATING REVIEW CO N T I N U ED Well Positioned for Future Growth The outlook for the market is encouraging.
STRATEGY IN ACTION We have an improving economy, a competitive mortgage market and an underlying strong HEALTH & SAFETY INITIATIVES demand for more homes.
HIGH STANDARDS HIGH STANDARDS IN HEALTH & SAFETY IN HEALTH Whilst there is still much to do to improve & SAFETY and speed-up the planning system, more Redrow has launched a year-long campaign to raise awareness of four hazards consents are being granted and this is helping which adversely affect the health of thousands of construction workers every year: to ensure the land market remains benign and attractive.
Our biggest challenge will be to Dust and respiratory diseases overcome the planning and technical Hand Arm Vibration obstacles we face to close land deals Skin problems including dermatitis and skin cancer and bring outlets on-stream sooner.
Noise Last year for the first time we set three year Research shows that although there has been a substantial reduction in the number of targets.
We have now updated those targets fatal injuries in the construction industry, there were still an estimated 76,000 cases of for 2018 and expect turnover to increase by work-related ill health last year, including 31,000 new cases identified in the year.
40% to 1.6bn, operating margins to improve Across the industry approximately 2.3 million working days were lost 1.7 million of them to 19% and return on capital employed to due to ill health.
The combined cost to society of injuries and new cases of ill health is more be in excess of 21% despite our ongoing than 1.1 billion per year: and the effects can be devastating for individuals and their investment in land and inventory to grow families in terms of quality of life and financial security.
We also set a target of 25% for return on equity.
Nine divisional roadshows were delivered across the country in May and June to raise awareness among Redrow contractors and their employees of the hazards associated with As we continue to grow the number of outlets inhalation of construction dusts and hand arm vibration syndrome, which can be caused by from which we operate we will inevitably prolonged exposure to high frequency vibrating power tools.
Attendees of these events increase the pressure on our teams and were also shown various extraction equipment and HAVi meters that can be used to reduce contractors to deliver.
We can however draw dust exposure and monitor the time that their operatives are exposed to vibrating work comfort from our track record of recruiting, equipment.
These roadshow workshops were delivered by the Redrow Health and Safety retaining and developing our people.
We have team supported by Dave Arscott, National Technical Manager for Brandon Hire.
a team of people that are proud to work for Roadshows are being supported with fact sheets, posters and toolbox talks.
Redrow and understand and share our values to build a great product and deliver excellent customer service.
John Tutte Group Chief Executive 7 September 2015 Contractors at one of Redrows Health & Safety workshop roadshows The Worcester house type at Summerhill Park, Liverpool 32 33 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
