20 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Operating review Group Overview The results of PET Power and Promens have been compared with the previous year with most of the shown separately for the purpose of reporting growth experienced in the UK and USA, whilst RPC is a leading international plastic products this year, given that the businesses were acquired sales volumes in mainland Europe were generally design and engineering company.
It operates in in February and by the year end had not been in line with last year.
The Group won several 24 countries from 91 manufacturing sites and integrated within the organisational structure awards for excellence in product design and was 23 separate distribution and sales operations, indicated above.
named the UK packaging company of the year including 13 design and development centres.
UK Packaging Awards, as well as the UK plastic The recent acquisitions of Ace and Promens have Strategy processor of the year Plastic Industry Awards.
widened the customer base and market operations The Group announced its Vision 2020 Focused Improvements in technology continued across outside RPCs traditional packaging markets.
Growth Strategy in 2013, of which there are three the Group, for example doubling the speed of the This provides new opportunities for the Group core elements: assembly lines for a single serve beverage system.
to exploit its innovative design, engineering and continuing focused organic growth in selected manufacturing capabilities in plastic products.
Selective consolidation in the areas of the packaging markets: Europeanpackaging market through The Group reframed its internal organisational selective consolidation in the European targeted acquisitions structure following the acquisition of Promens and, packaging market through targeted acquisitions In 2013 14 the Group made two acquisitions from 1 April 2015, reorganised its operations into to strengthen and extend market positions: and in Europe: M&H Plastics, whose principal five divisions replacing the former cluster structure, creating a meaningful presence outside manufacturing site is based in Beccles, UK, and servicing both the packaging and non-packaging Europe where growth rates in GDP are Helioplast, which is based in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
These are RPC Superfos, RPC Bramlage, considerably higher.
Both have been successfully integrated within the RPC Promens, RPC Bebo and RPC Ace.
Group and have made a positive contribution to the The Group also identified further opportunities to For the purpose of 2014 15 financial reporting results with the anticipated synergies more than optimise its existing asset base, resulting in the the former cluster organisational structure has achieved.
The combined organic growth realised in final phase of the Fitter for the Future business been retained, organised around the three main the year by these businesses was 19% compared optimisation programme which was completed polymer conversion processes used within the with the same period last year pre-acquisition.
Group, each site being managed within one of six In February 2015, RPC acquired Promens, a clusters which are defined along technological and The Group made good progress during the year in leading European manufacturer of rigid plastic market lines.
products for a wide range of end markets and Each cluster operates across a wide geographical Continuing focused organic growth headquartered in Reykjavik, Iceland.
This has area for reasons of customer proximity, local The Group achieved good underlying growth with strengthened our position across the enlarged market demand and manufacturing resource, sales up 4% on a like-for-like basis versus last year, Groups common packaging end markets and withthe Ace cluster based in China.
supported by higher levels of investment in product extended our geographic reach, adding new and process innovation.
Activity levels improved adjacent technologies to RPCs capabilities.
I am pleased with the Groups performance in the financial year ending March 2015.
We have made further progress in implementing the Vision 2020 strategy with additional platforms for growth established in Asia, North America, Africa and Europe.
The integration of Promens is progressing well and the Group continues to explore further opportunities for growth.
Despite the currency translation headwinds and the adverse impact fromthe time lag in passing through higher polymerprices, the start to the new financial  and in line with .
P R M Vervaat Chief Executive Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 21 With 41 production facilities spanning 20 countries In June 2014 the Group acquired Ace Corporation identified to optimise the combined manufacturing including sites in North America, Asia and North Holdings Limited Ace, a China based and Hong footprint in Europe 42 RPC plants and 34 Promens Africa and with annual sales of 590m, this was a Kong headquartered award-winning manufacturer plants, the Group is now projecting 30m per major acquisition for the Group: it will take time to of plastic injection moulded components and annum of overall profit synergies, increasing its fully integrate and realise the potential synergies injection moulding tools for the packaging and initial estimate by 15m, with 12.5m expected from combining the two businesses.
Operating from five to be realised in 2015 16.
The total integration factories in China and with sales of 104m, it costs to deliver these are projected to be 70m, Also in February 2015 the Group acquired PET provides RPC with a strong platform to support with the associated cash costs excluding capital Power, a Netherlands based manufacturer of its international customer base with high quality, expenditure expected to be lower at 25m.
PET products, serving the cosmetics, food and European standard packaging in Asia.
With sales of 37m it The PET Power business, which is now being provides opportunities to benefit from the high is recognised as a European leader in PET based managed by the M&H Plastics business within and sustained growth of this profitable niche products from an Injection Stretch Blow moulding the Bramlage division, is a stand-alone business manufacturer of injection moulded components ISBM technology platform.
PET is the fastest and has already been integrated into the Group, and moulds.
growing polymer material for conversion to rigid with purchasing and working capital synergies plastic in the packaging industry and has a number Business Integration quickly realised.
of unique characteristics which makes it an Recent Acquisitions Fitter for the Future attractive material to develop for both packaging Since its acquisition in June 2014, the strategic The Group completed the final phase of Fitter and other market applications.
potential of Ace has been confirmed by both for the Future, its business improvement More recently, in May 2015, the Group enhanced packaging and non-packaging customers.
This programme its position in PET further by acquiring Innocan, a Good progress has been made in developing focused on optimising the Groups existing Belgian based start-up company with a range of revenue synergies for the Group, with a number business portfolio and European manufacturing innovative and stackable PET containers.
of RPCs European businesses benefiting from footprint whilst disposing of its non-core Creating a meaningful presence Aces mould making expertise.
The objectives and final actions outsideEurope sales presence has been established in Shanghai included rationalising the manufacturing footprint and Promens Asia will be integrated into the in Sweden, France and Spain.
The trading During the year the Group completed its major Ace division.
disposables business at Offenburg Germany expansion programme at Morgantown, PA, USA, was sold in May 2014 and the Cobelplast sheet providing additional capacity for growth in food The integration of the Promens Group is also business comprising sites at Lokeren Belgium and packaging.
In addition, further capital expenditure proceeding well.
Within five weeks of acquiring Montonate Italy was sold in September 2014. to support Superfos growth in North America was the business a new organisation structure was made, alongside the expansion of M&H Plastics put in place and the new management teams facility at Winchester, VA, as its successful UK are working well together, with the Promens business model is rolled out to the USA.
Sales in integration programme now well established.
the USA relating to these sites have grown by Early purchasing synergies have been realised 52% versus last year to a level of 89m for the and corporate overhead duplications have been total Group.
Given the increased opportunities CONVERSION PROCESS CLUSTER MARKETS Superfos Food, soups & sauces, margarine & spreads, paints, DIY products Injection Moulding Bramlage-Wiko Personal care, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, food, coffee capsules UKIM Food, soups & sauces, margarine & spreads, paints, DIY products, pharmaceuticals, promotional products Ace Mould manufacture: food, cosmetic & consumer packaging, and medical, life-style, power and automotive injection moulded technical components Bebo Margarine & spreads, fresh, frozen and long shelf-life foods, coffee capsules, Thermoforming dairymarket, vending & drinking cups Blow Moulding Blow Moulding Personal care, lubricants, agrochemicals, food & drinks, long shelf-life foods For more detail about our acquisitions see page 10 22 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Operating review continued Revenue The programme costs incurred were 24.4m in The Group invested heavily in growth and the period 19.5m continuing business and 4.9m efficiency projects, with over 90m of capital relating to Cobelplast including a 3.7m loss on expenditure invested in the year.
The programme delivered steady state cost remained strong with 92.7m net cash from 1.2bn savings of 5m in the year, with cumulative annual operating activities and free cash flow of 50.8m.
Working capital as a percentage of sales for 2014: 1.0bn continuing operations was at 5.5% 2014: 3.0%.
Group Performance The Group retains a strong balance sheet with net The Groups underlying profit growth was good debt of 431m, and having refinanced ahead of despite a generally flat economic environment both the Ace and Promens acquisitions, it had total Like-for-like sales growth in mainland Europe and the impact of a foreign finance facilities of 862m at 31 March 2015. currency translation headwind due to a weakening Euro.
Overall sales increased 17% during the year to 1,222m, with a significant contribution 4% coming from acquisitions.
Like-for-like sales grew 4%, after taking into account the impact of price reductions relating to the polymer content of sales passed on to customers, the currency translation headwind impact on sales values and other effects.
Adjusted EBITDA was 187.6m 2014 restated: 145.3m and adjusted operating profit of 131.6m increased by 30.6m, with return on sales improving to 10.8% 2014 restated: 9.6%.
After adjusting for 26m of profit contribution from the newly acquired businesses, the main drivers of improvement were higher like-for-like activity levels and other business improvements including 5m of benefits arising from the Fitter for the Future business programme, and a polymer tailwind arising in the second half of the year as a result of the fall in polymer prices.
Changes in polymer prices are typically passed on to our customers, usually with a time lag, and the fall in polymer pricing in the second half of the year on the back of falling oil prices positively impacted margins, albeit temporarily.
Offsetting these effects were a 6m translation impact on profits and the cost of inflation.
combine an oxygen barrier on all surfaces CASE STUDY with a membrane seal to ensure an almost non-existent oxygen transmission rate.
Rag in award-winning The barrier is created through the use of a leading-edge in-mould labelling IML SuperLock technique.
Labels are manufactured using a special co-extruded barrier foil and are A new addition to the range of Britains applied during the injection moulding of oldest pasta sauces, Rag, has become the containers.
After filling, the containers the first UK product to go on-shelf in RPC are sealed with a PP EVOH PP membrane Superfoss award-winning SuperLock seal.
Together the two processes ensure barrier pack.
virtually zero oxygen transmission to provide The 400ml pack, supplied to manufacturer an ambient shelf-life of up to 24 months.
Symingtons by RPC Superfos UK They are suitable for hot filling and Region, Blackburn, has been selected autoclaving during processing.
in preference to glass due to its ambient shelf-life of up to 24 months combined with glass-like transparency and the added in-home safety of a non-shatter container.
SuperLock containers Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 23 Revenue INJECTION MOULDING 12 months to 12 months to 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 restated 746m m m 2014: 670m Sales 745.6 669.7 Adjusted operating profit 80.9 66.0 Return on sales 10.9% 9.9% Return on net operating assets 23.9% 26.0% The business comprises the Superfos, Bramlageoffset mostly by the delay of new projects in other confirmed by major customers during the year.
Wiko, UKIM and Ace clusters.
The Ace business end markets.
Sales of the SuperLock product A sales presence for the rest of the Group has acquisition was completed on 2 June 2014 range have gained traction in the UK market now been established in China with additional and these results include ten months of postwith local production commencing by the end of packaging sales anticipated in the current financial acquisition contribution.
The UKIM cluster was integrated into year.
Overall the business traded satisfactorily business, which was included in Injection Moulding the Superfos division as a separate region on with year-on-year growth realised despite in the results to 31 March 2014, is now reported 1 April 2015. being impacted by significantly lower activity in Blow Moulding including the comparator year.
levels in one of its major lifestyle product lines The Bramlage-Wiko business performance The overall improvement in sales and adjusted and European export sales being negatively recovered from a weak start to the year which operating profit reflects the contribution made by influenced by the strong appreciation of the was impacted by customer destocking.
In the Ace and sales growth within the existing injection Renminbi versus the euro in the second half of USA, food packaging sales increased following moulding businesses.
Unfortunately on 26 October 2014 a fire a major expansion of its production facilities at incapacitated the electroplating lines at the Zhuhai Superfos sales volumes were higher than last year.
In addition new investments in factory.
An insurance claim has been made to Helioplast performed very well with sales volumes Tassimo production lines supported further growth recover property damage and business interruption up 39% on the previous year through growing in demand for coffee capsules.
Although no orders were lost and continuity market share in the south east Europe region.
business returned to profitability following the of supply was achieved, this event slowed the rate The cluster benefited from continued sales growth closure of its San Roque operation.
The cluster of planned growth of the electroplating business.
of its higher added value thin-walled products continues to be successful in developing new and innovative barrier packaging SuperLock product designs and is well positioned to exploit The new and improved lines are currently being range.
The consolidation of manufacturing new business opportunities through its strong installed and the forward order book is looking facilities in Sweden as part of the Fitter for the market positions and leading technological healthy as customers have appreciated the Future programme was successfully completed in know-how.
business performance during the disruption.
Further investment in plating capacity is therefore The strategic potential of Ace as a platform for being considered.
The process of integrating Overall activity levels for UKIM were in line with future growth in Asia for both the higher added Ace into the Group in order to realise synergistic last year as the increase in the DIY market was value packaging and non-packaging markets was opportunities has progressed well.
The pre-printed labels offer outstanding graphic quality and the ability to produce highly colourful and intricate designs.
Furthermore, the availability of the whole container for this quality decoration allows it to be maximised to its full potential for excellent shelf stand-out.
Equally important, the clarity and transparency of the polypropylene containers mean that clear sections can be incorporated into the labels so that the products themselves can also be visible on shelf.
Further consumer benefits include easy re-closability thanks to the twist-off screw-on lid and SuperLock is microwave, dishwasher and freezer safe.
Highly Recommended @ Horners Bottlemakers Awards Highly Commended @ UK Packaging Awards - Consumer Convenience 24 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Operating review continued Revenue THERMOFORMING 12 months to 12 months to 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 restated 170m m m 2014: 182m Sales 169.6 182.0 Adjusted operating profit 21.3 19.1 Return on sales 12.6% 10.5% Return on net operating assets 39.9% 33.8% The thermoforming operations comprise the retail Overall activity levels on a like-for-like basis food packaging and beverage businesses which were similar to last year.
The Groups cost are managed by the Bebo cluster.
The cluster competitiveness in the margarine and spreads performed well in the period, with profitability market, which is a significant part of the and RONOA significantly improved.
The non-core thermoforming business and in which the Group trading disposables business at Offenburg has strong market positions, was improved by the Germany was sold in May 2014 which, together reorganisation of the cluster under Fitter for the with loss of business arising from the flooding of Future programme.
The closure of the Beuningen a French factory and the appreciation of sterling site and the subsequent transfer of business versus the euro, accounts for the decrease in to lower cost operations in the UK and Poland turnover in the period.
were completed in the year and have started to yield savings.
This, together with new product development such as the development of in-mould labelling of thermoformed products IML-T, is helping to improve market share.
Sales into the French dairy market, which were adversely affected by the flood and subsequent closure of the Troyes site, have stabilised but were lower year on year.
Further sales growth in single serve beverage systems and in particular the Dolce Gusto coffee capsule, was realised with new capacity being installed.
We anticipate that the single serve beverage system will be extended into the tea market.
CASE STUDY CASE STUDY Volore velenti busdam accum inusape Aceate rera vel imi, senda In-Mould Label dollestibus ipsant.
dit senda dit am fuga Thermoforming Harum eum voloris aut pra qui as audam ressi Omnient mintur, ium et quat essit, quibus nectati re solupta tisimi, ommosapienis doloreiunt RPC Bebo Plastik has now commenced ditiusamusam eat volor aut ad quis endis aut manufacture of packs using its In-Mould ommodisit perum di apic te aditio inisquos etur, d Lia tib s i el n T cth oe ta rtm um of e o t e rm t a in d e g x ei IMu L sT tr u m tec qhno uodil s og si v yi, d inci to con raes venis experiam iligenis following the installation of a dedicated quam ex earia evere qui doluptat eum res et ad del int as aute nosam hitissi taepro vel exeriti line at its factory in Bremervrde, ut molorum, nihit labore, arum ut por atiis re, id aspistiat aut alictiatium ant eum fugitaq Germany.
que essundebisti volum, oditem qui re peror sit uuntem rendae veribea nis re mo od et is endis The companys first customer is harum experume sandit rehenim enditaquam inus, Germanys leading producer of dis et quam commolo reruptur ipsuntiur?
Mozzarella, Goldsteig, for whom RPC Bebo is producing a new custom-moulded container.
Further new orders are currently being finalised.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 25 Revenue BLOW MOULDING 12 months to 12 months to 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 restated 250m m m 2014: 195m Sales 249.6 195.2 Adjusted operating profit 27.4 15.9 Return on sales 11.0% 8.1% Return on net operating assets 27.7% 25.6% The blow moulding business comprises the Blow by certain contract losses in personal care and Moulding cluster which operates from 11 sites barrier jars.
The restructuring of the Blow Moulding in the UK and mainland Europe, and the M&H cluster under the Fitter for the Future programme Plastics business whose processes and markets has reduced capacity costs and helped improve the are predominantly blow moulding.
return on sales of the cluster.
The segment has benefited from the acquisition of M&H Plastics, whose margins are generally higher, and its associated synergies resulting in the significant increase in sales, operating profit and improved returns, and in particular from the impact of a full year of trading 2014: only three months.
Sales volumes at M&H Plastics have grown since joining the Group in December 2013, particularly in the USA where investment in expanding its US facility at Winchester, VA, has resulted in higher sales.
Further growth in the USA is foreseen in the new year.
For the rest of the blow moulding business growth realised in agrochemicals and industrial products was offset IML-T brings premium quality decoration to the thermoforming sector, enabling food manufacturers to create effective branding and on-shelf differentiation in highly competitive markets.
With the acknowledged lightweight and barrier benefits of thermoformed packs, companies can now combine a premium decoration quality.
High capacity output makes the investment in tooling and handling equipment cost-effective, and potentially existing tools can also be modified with minimal outlay.
IML-T applies pre-printed labels to a container during the thermoforming process, meaning intricate, multi-coloured designs in up to eight colours can be incorporated to achieve a better level of finish and greater coverage than with direct printing.
Labels can be applied to any container shape and the same system can handle different packaging shapes and weights.
26 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Operating review continued Revenue RECENT ACQUISITIONS PROMENS AND PET POWER 12 months to 12 months to 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 58m m m Sales 57.6 Adjusted operating profit 2.0 Return on sales 3.5% Recent Acquisitions Non-Financial KPIs This segment comprises the results of the RPC has three main non-financial key performance recent acquisitions of the Promens Group and indicators KPIs.
From an environmental and PET Power, both of which were purchased in cost control perspective, electricity and water mid-February 2015 and contributed 6 weeks and usage per tonne produced are measured, and 7 weeks respectively of trading results to the from an employee welfare perspective reportable Group.
The results are significantly impacted by accidents are monitored.
the certain acquisition accounting adjustments, in These non-financial KPIs are set out on page 17. particular the restating of finished goods stocks It is very good to see the significant improvement to sales value thereby reducing margins to zero in made in health and safety performance with the the period in which the acquired stocks are being RAFR improving by 37% compared with last year sold.
Underlying trading in the period excluding following the implementation of a new health and acquisition accounting impacts was in line with safety improvement plan.
The lower RAFR for the managements expectations.
year was achieved despite a significant increase in employee numbers following the acquisitions.
Focus on health and safety remains our first priority and the transfer of RPC Safety Principles and the RNIB standards.
Braille printing directly CASE STUDY CASE STUDY CASE STUDY onto the product has significant benefits over labels, which can be damaged or peel Volore velenti busdam accum inusape Aceate rera vel imi, senda M&H Plastics has off, plus the text is less likely to rub off.
Although developed for Braille, this dit senda dit am fuga developed a method of innovative FLOWCONTROL Harum eum voloris aut pra qui as audam ressi process can also be used in traditional RPC Promens Industrial Rushden & RPC printing Braille characters screen printing, allowing customers to Omnient mintur, ium et quat essit, quibus nectati re solupta tisimi, ommosapienis doloreiunt Promens Consumer Halstead are producing highlight specific design features by using ditiusamusam eat volor aut ad quis endis aut directly onto plastic ommodisit perum di apic te aditio inisquos etur, a bespoke 5 litre oil pack for leading producer an embossed effect.
ditis inctotatumet et ad ex eiustru mquodissi vid Millers Oils, featuring a unique dispensing inci to con raes venis experiam iligenis packaging.
quam ex earia evere qui doluptat eum res et ad closure that allows the oil to be fully del int as aute nosam hitissi taepro vel exeriti ut molorum, nihit labore, arum ut por atiis re, id controllable and to flow freely and easily.
A high-build varnish is used to print the aspistiat aut alictiatium ant eum fugitaq que essundebisti volum, oditem qui re peror sit Braille dots, using extremely accurate The innovative closure has been jointly uuntem rendae veribea nis re mo od et is endis h ca orn ut m e rol m xpe er a us m ue s res t ano e dit r n es hu er n e t im e he h ndie ta ig qh ua t m inus, designed by RPC and Millers Oils from an dis et quam commolo reruptur of the Braille alphabet remains uniform ipsuntiur?
original concept devised by Millers to solve throughout the packaging run.
Samples of a long-standing problem in the market.
the Braille printing have been analysed by Lubricating oils have traditionally been very the Royal National Institute of Blind People difficult to control during pouring and this and measured against the Marburg and often leads to glugging, spills and splashes.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 27 implementation of the RPC safety standards within Outlook the acquired businesses was a key work stream in I am pleased with the Groups performance in the the year.
The commitment of senior management financial year ending March 2015.
We have made to safe working is now manifest in all sites and further progress in implementing the Vision 2020 is helping to make tangible changes to the safety strategy with additional platforms for growth performance of manufacturing operations.
established in Asia, North America, Africa and The Group continues to make stringent efforts Europe.
The integration of Promens is progressing to improve its efficient usage of electricity and well and the Group continues to explore further water.
The impact of a number of energy saving opportunities for growth.
Despite the currency initiatives to replace older machinery with more translation headwinds and the adverse impact modern energy conserving equivalents has been from the time lag in passing through higher offset by the shift towards a higher consumption polymer prices, the start to the new financial per polymer tonne converted associated with year has been satisfactory and in line with the manufacture of higher value added products.
Water usage has reduced significantly in recent years following recycling initiatives including P R M Vervaat closed loop cooling systems introduced to Chief Executive manufacturing sites across the Group.
10 June 2015 This has led to an increase in the use of five Having developed the concept, Millers litre containers for each specialist variety worked with RPC to create a suitable rather than larger bulk packs, explains container design that could incorporate Millers Oils joint managing director Nevil the new closure.
With these different variants, it was a side handle was required, and the necessary to find an on-pack solution that pack needed to retain the same height enabled them to be poured easily with no as the previous container in order to run danger of glugging.
on current filling lines and fit on existing shelves.
The closure itself is injection Millers idea was a closure incorporating moulded in PP while the container is a special valve that twists open and shut blow moulded in HDPE and this created a to control the flow of the oil.
This was then further challenge in ensuring the two parts brought to life by the RPC design team in could fit together easily.
As the oil is dispensed out of the The situation has been exacerbated in spout, a smaller opening below sucks air Millers are marketing the product under recent years with the many different oil back through the closure and into the base the name FLOWCONTROL.
specifications that are now available.
This prevents a vacuum forming to keep the oil flowing freely.
