1 2 Operational review 4 5 16 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Operational review 3 6 7 1 The Blacklist, Sky Living HD, Sky UK 2 The Affair, Sky Atlantic HD, Sky UK 3 The Avengers, Sky Movies HD, All territories 4 Jessica Ennis-Hill, Sky Academy Ambassador, Sky UK 5 England vs Australia, 2014 Autumn Internationals, Rugby Union, Sky Sports HD, Sky UK 6 Gomorrah, Sky Atlantic HD, All territories 7 Our people 8 Mayweather vs Pacquiao, Boxing, Sky Sports Box Office, Sky UK: Sky Select, Sky Deutschland 8 Sky plc 17 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report UK & Ireland 1 Customers Net customer growth 12.0m 506k Products Net product growth 38.0m 3.3m Sky delivered an exceptional years performance in the UK and Ireland as investments in content and connected services delivered growth across all areas of the business.
Our strategy of segmenting the market using the complementary Sky and NOW TV brands helped achieve the highest organic customer growth in 11 years with 506,000 net new customer 2 additions over the year.
This was almost 50% more than the prior year and took our customer base past the 12-million milestone.
At the same time, we added 3.3 million new paid-for subscription products, taking us past 38 million products.
This reflects strong demand across the board, with accelerated growth in both TV and broadband.
Increased customer satisfaction resulting from the growth of connected TV services delivered a 110 basis-point reduction in 12-month rolling churn to 9.8%, our best performance in 11 years.
4 6 1 Alex Crawford, Sky News HD, Sky UK 2 Enfield Haunting, Sky Living HD, Sky UK 3 Lewis Hamilton, winning at Abu Dhabi to become 2014 Formula One World Champion, Sky Sports F1, Sky UK: Sky Sport F1 HD, Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia 4 Parkinson: Masterclass, Sky Arts HD, Sky UK 5 England vs Canada, Womens Rugby World Cup Final 2014, Sky Sports, Sky UK 6 2014 Ryder Cup, Sky Sports Ryder Cup, Sky UK: Sky Sport HD, Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia 18 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Content Much of our success in 2015 can be attributed to an outstanding year on screen.
We increased the quality and range of programming across our portfolio, making particular progress in our strategy to increase the volume and quality of our home-grown content.
In entertainment, we launched Fortitude in January, our first original drama to premier simultaneously across all of our territories.
Reaching a total audience of 3.7 million in the UK across the series, it was Sky Atlantics most successful original drama to date and the second most successful show ever to air on the channel.
Elsewhere in the portfolio, we launched a new Sky Arts on demand service as part of a major refresh of our arts offering.
With over 1,000 hours of dedicated arts programming, including programmes commissioned and acquired exclusively for on demand, the 3 new service underlines Skys long-term commitment to the arts.
Sky Arts will also benefit from new programming produced in a new Arts Production Hub, to be based in Milan.
Our partnerships with some of the worlds leading content producers continue to pay dividends.
The fifth series of HBO In sport, we had a strong year on screen, achieving record hit Game of Thrones was available to view by Sky and NOW TV performances across a range of different sports.
For the second customers at the same time as the US, with the finale achieving season running, Sky showed 49 of the top 50 most watched Premier a record audience of 3.1 million.
This makes it the most-watched League matches.
An exciting end to the F1 season delivered live Sky entertainment programme ever in Sky homes.
race audiences up 20% year on year a record season for F1 on Sky Sports.
Meanwhile the World Darts Championship attracted a In movies, the strength of the partnerships we enjoy with the major peak audience of 1.7 million for the final in January, the biggest-ever Hollywood studios helped us continue to improve the offering for audience for darts on Sky.
Overall consumption of movies was up 10% on the prior year fuelled by the continued success of our on demand offering.
Additionally, we secured a number of key rights deals in the year On demand downloads surpassed 500 million as customers chose to ensure Sky Sports remains the number one choice for sports from a library of more than 1,000 movies.
This included a significant win in the Premier Leagues tender process in February, giving us the rights to 126 live Premier League matches a season from 2016 17 to 2018 19.
This is three times as many live matches as any other broadcaster, including the best match picks, and the most-watched slots in the schedule.
5 Sky plc 19 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report UK & Ireland continued 1 Innovation One of our priorities for 2015 was to use our leadership in innovation to step change the viewing experience for customers and make it even easier for them to access our content however and whenever they want it.
In the home, we extended our lead as the UKs biggest connected box platform, connecting more than one million customers over the year to take our connected base past seven million.
With over 60% of all TV households now connected, on demand usage has continued to grow as customers embrace the greater choice and flexibility it offers.
Total on demand downloads surpassed 1.5 billion in the year, up 60% year on year.
Our investment in Sky Box Sets proved particularly popular with the service, delivering viewing equivalent to our fourth most popular Sky channel in 2015.
Weve also expanded our on demand library elsewhere, including an increase in our dedicated kids programming from 700 to 4,000 episodes.
The growing penetration of connected devices is enabling us to exploit new revenue opportunities.
Sky Store Buy & Keep, our entry into the movie purchase sector, helped drive a 77% increase in Sky Store revenues over the year.
We added new functionality in 2015 to enable customers to access their movie collection from their mobile device.
This means that customers can buy a movie from Sky and watch it at home in their sitting room, or enjoy it when they are out and about.
This was just one development that helped us cement our position as Europes biggest mobile TV provider.
The number of Sky Go 4 registered households in the UK and Ireland passed six million in the year.
Meanwhile, Sky Go Extra, our paid-for mobile service which offers the ability to watch on more devices and download content to watch offline, became Skys fastest-growing product ever.
1 Sky Box Sets, Sky UK 2 Now TV Entertainment Pass, Sky UK 3 Sky AdSmart, Sky UK 4 Sky Service app, Sky UK 5 Sky Hub wireless broadband router, Sky UK 20 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 2015 also saw us make great progress with our OTT streaming service, NOW TV, helping us to extend our reach into F reeview homes.
Sales of sports passes almost trebled to close to 1.5 million during the year thanks to a rebrand and the introduction of a new sports weekly pass.
Everything we see tells us that NOW TV customers love the service: more than one-third of NOW TV customers buy more than one pass every month while the average NOW TV Entertainment pass customer watches over five hours per week.
In addition, the growth in NOW TV is not cannibalising the Sky customer base with more 2 than 90% of all customers having never considered Sky before signing up.
Customer In a fast-moving market with an ever-greater choice of products and providers, we believe that our capability in service delivery gives us a competitive advantage.
We have continued to raise the bar in this area in 2015.
Our main focus has been on simplifying the customer experience.
Central to this is our Digital First programme which we have been rolling out across the UK and Ireland.
During the course of 2015, we reduced the number of inbound calls to our service centres by 11% as record numbers of customers interacted with us via our service app, through our automated voice service or via the set-top box.
3 At the same time, we closed the year with our customer satisfaction scores at all-time highs.
This was reflected in the latest Ofcom survey which showed Sky leading the market on customer satisfaction, with the fewest complaints across our product set.
The capability we have developed in service delivery also enables us to bring new products to market quickly and at scale.
In January, we announced plans to add mobile voice and data services to our customer offering in 2016, following the conclusion of a new partnership with Telefnica UK.
Building on the strength of the Sky brand and our leadership in innovation and customer service, we will launch a range of exciting new services that will enable us to exploit new opportunities for growth.
Our customer-led approach means we take our responsibilities seriously.
For example, this year, we took an important next step to protect our customers online with adjustments to our awardwinning online filtering tool, Sky Broadband Shield.
We now make sure the default setting is on, unless customers choose otherwise.
Weve contacted every one of our broadband customers to explain the benefits and to highlight their options.
5 Sky plc 21 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Germany & Austria Content Customers Net customer growth In entertainment, we made important progress towards extending the range and quality of content on offer to customers in Germany 4.3m 467k and Austria with our first move into original content production.
Scandinavian crime drama 100 Code, a co-production with Red Products Net product growth Arrow, premiered in March, attracting a total of 1.8 million views across the series.
Filming also started on a police crime thriller series, Babylon Berlin, to air in the coming year.
7.1m 969k In addition, 2015 was a big year for acquired content with Sky customers enjoying more season premieres than ever before from some of the worlds best content producers.
This included the Sky achieved an excellent year of growth in fifth series of The Walking Dead and the final series of True Blood.
Germany and Austria, attracting more new Our partnership with HBO delivered the exclusive launch of the fifth customers than in any year since launch series of Game of Thrones on Sky Thrones HD, Europes first channel dedicated to a single series.
This set a new record for a show on thanks to rising demand for our products Sky in Germany and Austria, with 5.4 million views across the series.
Reflecting the growing demand for flexibility of viewing, Game of Thrones series 5 was also the most successful series to date on Sky Go.
Over the 12-month period, we added 467,000 customers to take the base past four million.
In movies, Christmas came early for Sky customers and fans of Star Wars when Sky Hits was re-branded Sky Star Wars HD At the same time, paid-for product growth totalled almost one in December, showing all six Star Wars films around the clock.
million, more than 50% higher than the previous year thanks to This more than doubled the viewership versus the prior year, strong growth in HD.
with more than three million people tuning in over the two weeks.
Continued take-up of two-year contracts helped drive churn down to a record full-year low of 8.6%, a full 180 basis points lower than the prior year.
1 1 Star Wars Episode IV, Sky Movies: Star Wars HD, Sky UK: Sky Star Wars HD, Sky Deutschland: Sky Cinema Star Wars HD, Sky Italia 2 Game of Thrones Talk, Sky Atlantic HD, Sky Deutschland 3 Sky90, Sky Bundesliga HD 1, Sky Deutschland 4 Sky Online box and remote, Sky Deutschland 5 Buntkicktgut, Sky Foundation, Sky Deutschland 22 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Strategic report In sport, our Bundesliga coverage delivered a new ratings record in Out of the home, we extended our lead as the number one provider 2015 with more than six million views to the live action over a single for mobile TV by launching Sky Go on Android devices in December.
weekend at the end of February.
We also achieved a new record in We also continued to build out the range of content available, terms of share of viewing with the Saturday afternoon match on including the addition of a brand-new lifestyle section with 100 23 May winning more than 14% of all TV viewing.
new programmes each month from partner channels.
Meanwhile, we secured a new three-year deal for the exclusive live We extended our reach into the pay light segment of the market broadcasting rights for all matches involving German and Austrian with the December launch of our Sky Online service.
Using a teams in the UEFA Europa League, starting from the 2015 16 season.
streaming box based on the same technology that has been We also broadened our offering with the rights to the IHF Handball so popular in the UK, Sky Online offers customers a choice of World Championship 2015.
This brought 28 games exclusively live two packages as well as a Supersport Day Ticket for those with to Sky subscribers, including all German and Austrian national either one of these packages.
This provides customers with a team matches.
flexible, user-friendly and affordable way of accessing Skys premium content.
Innovation Customer Building on the success of our connected TV strategy in the UK, we started to connect the first German and Austrian satellite We have made progress in building our customer service capability customers boxes to the internet in December.
Its early days but over the year.
This has been recognised with a number of awards, almost 250,000 set-top boxes had already been connected in the including leader in the entertainment sector in the TOP SERVICE first six months to the end of June, opening up access to a much Deutschland 2015 competition.
richer entertainment experience for customers.
The importance we place on giving customers the best experience from Sky extends to providing parents with easy-to-use tools to help protect their family from unsuitable content.
Alongside PIN protection, we provide a dedicated Kids Zone on Sky Go which is safe and secure.
4 3 2 5 Sky plc 23 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Italy Customers Net customer growth - 4.7m Products Net product growth customers across all Sky territories, in addition to locally 8.6m 387k commissioned content.
It will also focus on producing pan-European events to celebrate the arts.
Elsewhere, our general entertainment channel, Sky Uno, built on Sky in Italy held its customer base stable its reputation as the exclusive home of mainstream franchises.
The latest series of X Factor Italia and MasterChef Italia delivered after three years of negative growth, a great a significant increase in ratings of more than 30% and 20% achievement given a challenging economic respectively year on year, while the successful launch of Italias Got Talent made it the top-rated entertainment show debut on the environment.
We are monetising our investment in content more broadly through We ended the year with 4.7 million customers, while paid-for products the expansion of our free-to-air offering on Digital Terrestrial increased by 387,000 to 8.6 million thanks to good growth in HD.
In 2015, we launched news channel Sky TG24 In common with our other markets, we delivered a significant on free-to-air, joining Cielo, our general entertainment channel reduction in churn in the year.
The 12-month rolling churn figure was which grew viewing 10% year on year.
9.6%, a decline of more than four percentage points in two years.
As in In sport, we further strengthened our domestic football offering by the UK, much of this improvement can be attributed to the rise in the securing the exclusive rights to all 472 matches in Serie B football connected base and the resultant increase in customer satisfaction.
for the next three seasons.
We also won the exclusive rights to the Content 2016 European Qualifiers and the 2018 World Cup Qualifiers.
Added to our rights for all Serie A matches, with one-third exclusive, and all In entertainment, we continued to differentiate ourselves from Europa League matches, this confirms Sky Italia as the number one the competition in Italy by investing on screen to give customers choice for football fans.
an increasing range of high quality and distinctive programming.
Away from football, we continued to extend the breadth of our Much of the focus in 2015 went towards building the momentum offering with the exclusive rights to the EuroBasket 2015 weve established in original production.
Crime drama Gomorrah tournament and the Rugby World Cup in 2015. was sold to more than 100 countries and we commissioned a second series to air in 2016.
Meanwhile, political series 1992 became the On screen, motorsports performed particularly strongly.
MotoGP second Sky drama after Fortitude to premiere simultaneously across and Formula 1 grew their ratings by 30% and 24% respectively year all five territories.
1992 achieved the biggest-ever audience for on year in a season in which Italian teams and drivers regained their an original scripted series in Italy at launch in the spring.
Theres more to look forward to in the coming year with the 4 announcement of The Young Pope, a major new co-production between Sky, HBO and Canal.
Directed by Academy Award-winning Paolo Sorrentino, the eight-part drama features Jude Law in the starring role and will launch across all our markets next year.
2015 also saw the announcement of plans for a new Sky Arts Production Hub to be based in Milan.
Part of a major commitment to the arts across the group, the Production Hub will act as a centre of excellence, producing a slate of outstanding arts programming for 1 MasterChef Italia, Sky Uno HD, Sky Italia 2 TG24 for schools, Sky Italia 3 Juventus vs Roma, Serie A, Sky Sport HD, Sky Italia 4 Sky Calcio Show, Sky Sport HD, Sky Italia 5 My Sky HD box, Sky Italia 24 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Innovation We underlined our position of leadership in innovation in Italy with a series of important new launches designed to make it easier 1 to access and consume content.
In the home, we drove a 51% increase in connected boxes to end the year with more than one-third of all customers connected to the internet.
This growing penetration of connected devices fuelled an explosion in on demand usage with total downloads more than double the previous year.
Out of the home, registered households to Sky Go increased to almost half of the base by year-end.
Sky Go is particularly valued by sports fans, attracting an average of more than half a million streams at weekends.
We opened up new headroom for growth in April with the launch 2 of a new IPTV service in partnership with Telecom Italia.
The new service uses the first Sky PVR to work via satellite and IPTV streaming to offer our full content line-up over broadband for the first time.
This broadens our reach and gives us access to the many Italian households who are unable to install a satellite dish.
The partnership with Telecom Italia is a key component to the broadly-based growth strategy that also saw the launch of a new Sky Online box in May.
The new box is based on the same technology as the NOW TV box in the UK, and Sky Online box in Germany, and enables us to tap into a new segment of the market.
Customer As in our other territories, we know that our success comes from a focus on customers and a mindset of embracing change in order to provide customers with the best-possible experience from Sky.
We sought to strengthen our relationship with Italian customers by increasing the rewards for loyalty.
From April, we reserved Sky Go for those customers that have been with Sky for more than a year.
We also sought to increase customer engagement by upgrading our customer reward programme with a series of new initiatives and benefits.
In order to give parents more control over the type of content their children watch, we introduced Parental Control.
Activated through 3 a remote device, it is available to all Sky customers in Italy.
Alongside this, we have continued our focus to improve the quality and flexibility of our customer service by moving more of our customer interactions online.
We reduced our calls per customer by 12% over the year with downloads to our self-service mobile app surpassing 1.5 million by year-end.
