OPERATING REVIEW LABORATORY OFF-LINE BUSINESSES OVERVIEW FROM THE BUSINESS GROUP DIRECTOR The six operating companies in the Materials Eoghan OLionaird Analysis and Test and Measurement segments Business Group Director sell their products and services into the laboratory and off-line activities of certain industries.
Whilst these operating companies differ as regards their technologies, solutions and applications, they also share much in common, with the primary demand driver for all of them being the rate and pace of innovation intechnology and materials and new product MATERIALS ANALYSIS TEST AND MEASUREMENT development undertaken by their customers.
The threat to patent-protected drugs Greater use of advanced composite In these segments, our businesses are fromgenerics causes the major global materials.
This trend is already driving predominantly exposed to capital investments pharmaceutical companies to look for ways investment decisions in industries such as devoted to improving productivity in the R&D, of becoming more efficient.
Whilst a aerospace, and is set to become even more testing and quality control processes in a range prevalent going forward.
New materials customer drive to enhance productivity is of industries see industry breakdown charts in require new tests to verify attributes such generally beneficial to our businesses, there the segment reviews which follow.
Many of asquality, reliability and durability, and our can be some short-term disruptions in the these industries are highly regulated, and the businesses are well placed to provide the marketplace resulting from increased need to comply with national and international instruments, software and related services acquisition activity, which can lead to delays legislation and regulation also results in required for this activity.
to decisions over capital investments.
increased demand for our products and services.
Further development of hybrid and electric Growing demand for biopharmaceutical drugs, Around a quarter of the revenues across these vehicles.
This trend has only just begun underpinned by the trend towards targetted segments is derived from aftermarket sales, inrecent years, and it is expected that the therapy.
In due course we believe this will being a combination of services e. g. equipment automotive industry will spend increased also lead to growth in biosimilars the calibration and consumables e. g. x-ray tubes.
effort on developing energy-efficient biopharmaceutical equivalent of generic drugs.
vehicles in the coming years.
In 2015 the US Food and Drug Administration Increasingly, we are seeing opportunities for our Greater use of engineering, simulation and approved biosimilars for the first time.
operating companies to enhance their value data analytics software in the automotive and The widespread drive to improve quality and proposition beyond best-in-class equipment to aerospace industries as a means of speeding standards, particularly in emerging markets, include services, based on their deep application up the development and quality control in areas such as food and drink, drugs and expertise.
The combination of the growth in process, thus saving cost and bringing the environment.
This has been a positive globalisation, which is introducing ever more newproducts to market more quickly.
influence on our business in China in recent complexity in the development and testing of Globalisation of the unconventional oil years, and we are now seeing the same products and materials, and the need to drive andgas industries.
Having been primarily benefits in India.
greater cost efficiency, which is resulting in aNorth American development to date, Limited new capital investment by the reduced in-house capacity within customer other parts of the world e. g. China, Europe, mining sector, with customer demand businesses, is creating a demand for increased Latin America are also expected to adopt primarily focussed on the equipment simplicity and ease of use, in a coherent offering unconventional oil and gas extraction and replacement cycle, aftermarket sales combining instruments, software and services.
production methods to meet their future andaneed to improve productivity.
In particular, we The level and speed of development and In addition to these cross-industry themes, there believe data analytics will become innovation in advanced semiconductors are trends specific to certain industries that we increasingly important to the andthe proliferation of affordable highsee impacting our Materials Analysis and Test and unconventionaloil and gas industry.
performance computing all result in Measurement segments today and in the future, investment by the semiconductor industry.
as highlighted in the following box.
34 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 MATERIALS ANALYSIS Sales Geographical breakdown % Industry breakdown % 364.4M 26 30 9 2014: 348.8M 16 Operating profit 11 28 53.7M 25 2014: 53.3M 18 37 Aftermarket sales as % of sales North America Asia Pharmaceuticals & Academic research 32% 1 Europe Rest of the World finechemicals Semicon, telecoms & 2014: 31% 4 Metals, minerals & mining electronics Other 2 Segment performance operations in China, is now a positive driver in Reported sales increased 4%, including a four India, where the generic drug manufacturers are percentage point contribution from acquisitions focussed on achieving the standards necessary to and a three percentage point adverse impact from export their drugs to the USA.
Elsewhere there was 3 foreign exchange currency movements.
As a result, good sales growth in the major developed markets LFL sales grew 3%.
Sales growth was driven of North America and Europe.
primarily by North America and Europe, with Asia generating slight growth and sales to the Rest of Following weak demand from the metals, minerals the World declining.
Operating profit and operating and mining industries in 2014 there was a The semiconductor equipment industry in Asia margins declined on a LFL basis, primarily reflecting resumption of sales growth to these industries in is a key market for our particle measuring the annualised effect of prior-year headcount 2015.
By geography, the growth was variable in business, and the development of new increases, the net cost of targetted restructuring these industries: amongst the key end markets technologies and materials such as 3D measures, and the absence of a one-off there was good sales growth from North America, semiconductors will ensure it remains 3.0 million R&D-related government grant which China, India and Brazil, but sales declined in attractive for us.
In March 2015 we acquired benefitted the prior-year period.
Excluding the Australia, Germany and Japan.
Generally, sales Sunway Scientific Corporation, a distributor impact of the R&D grant and the net restructuring growth in the mining sector came from aftermarket based in Taiwan.
Together with Sudo Premium sales, with customers preferring to repair and cost, operating profit grew 7% on a LFL basis.
Engineering in South Korea, which we support existing equipment rather than invest in acquired in 2014, we are now able to provide new products.
In the metals and minerals sectors, Sales to the pharmaceuticals and fine chemicals our products and services directly to the key however, sales of new instruments were strong.
sector increased, driven by strong demand semiconductor customers in Asia.
Whilst managing the cost base to align it to the from biopharmaceutical and generic drug lower demand levels, we have continued to manufacturers.
Sales also benefitted from good develop new solutions for customers in these progress by our particle measuring business sectors, and in 2015 we launched a major new together with our investments in solutions focussed product family, the Zetium x-ray spectrometer, on the life science industry, such as a biophysical sales of which have been encouraging to date.
characterisation tool, the Viscosizer, and a next-generation calorimeter, the MicroCal PEAQ-ITC.
Regulatory compliance, having previously been a strong growth driver for our 35 www.
com OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED LABORATORY OFF-LINE BUSINESSES CONTINUED Sales to academic research institutes declined, launched the first particle liquid counter which can life science and semiconductors sectors.
with pressure on public finances and low levels of measure contaminants as small as 20 nanometres, Investment by the mining sector is expected to private funding from industries such as mining and from the strong relationships we have with the remain low, with growth primarily attributable continuing to adversely impact trading conditions leading semiconductor manufacturers in North to aftermarket sales: however, the metals and for our businesses.
Amongst our major markets America and Asia.
These relationships have been minerals sectors are expected to remain robust.
only Germany and Japan delivered sales growth enhanced during the last 18 months with the We expect that these factors will more than in this sector, whilst there was a significant acquisition of our distributors in Taiwan and South offset what is likely to remain a subdued decline in China following what had been a Korea, which means we are now directly servicing academic research market given public sector strong year in 2014 when the Chinese state the key global semiconductor manufacturers.
The cost reduction measures universities invested in projects related to water taken during the second half of 2015, together quality and energy storage.
Segment outlook with our increased focus on operational We expect this segment to show further progress excellence initiatives, are expected to improve Sales to the semiconductor industry grew strongly, in 2016.
Continued investment in new products future profitability.
benefitting from our own innovation, as we should deliver progress in the pharmaceuticals, TEST AND MEASUREMENT Sales Geographical breakdown % Industry breakdown % 351.3M 26 22 4 2014: 342.9M 11 6 Operating profit 33 9 43 55.3M 27 2014: 52.2M 9 10 Aftermarket sales as % of sales North America Asia Machine building Academic research 20% Europe Rest of the World Automotive & aerospace Semicon, telecoms & 2014: 20% Environmental noise electronics monitoring Energy & utilities Other Segment performance margins increased 1.2 pp to 16.4%, primarily benefitted the prior year, there was strong sales Reported sales increased 2%, including a six reflecting positive sales mixeffects and the growth to machine manufacturers in 2015, a percentage point contribution from acquisitions benefits of the targetted restructuring measures significant portion of which represented sales and a five percentage point adverse impact from undertaken during the year, partially offset by into the automotive supply chain.
As we are foreign currency exchange movements.
seeing across the Group, automotive customers result, LFL sales grew 1%.
By geography, there are increasingly demanding the provision of was LFL sales growth in Europe and China, whilst Underlying demand from the automotive sector an integrated solution, combining hardware, LFL sales were broadly flat in North America and remains healthy.
Whilst direct sales to this sector software and services.
For example, we down modestly in Asia outside of China.
LFL were broadly unchanged in 2015, due to the lack won a significant contract with a major operating profit improved 9% and LFL operating of large projects in North America which had UK-based automotive manufacturer to provide 36 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 Sales of our environmental noise monitoring not only hardware but also a broad range services grew, benefitting from good demand in ofservices including calibration, on-site Europe.
We won a major contract with the Italian maintenance, spare part supply, training and government for noise monitoring in its vehicle dedicated hotline support and European inspection centres and extended our relationship on-site support.
with Aena, the Spanish airports operator, to centralise our systems across the six airports Customers increasingly use engineering software we already serve and extend our coverage to solutions to improve the quality, reliability and new sites.
durability of their equipment and processes and Manufacturers increasingly want their to shorten the time to market for key products.
In suppliers to provide a more comprehensive As was the case in Materials Analysis, and January 2015 we acquired ReliaSoft, a USA-based range of solutions.
In January 2015, we reflecting pressure on public finances, Test and reliability engineering software and services acquired ReliaSoft, an industry leader in Measurements sales to academic research business which has strengthened and extended reliability software solutions, which has been institutes declined.
Amongst our major markets our software applications offering.
During 2015 integrated into HBMs nCode business, only Germany delivered sales growth in this we made good progress with our NVH Simulator, extending the range of durability software sector, whilst there was a significant decline winning important contracts with major and services.
HBM can now provide testing in sales to China.
automotive manufacturers in the USA, UK and solutions for the complete product life-cycle, Europe, and we extended our noise, vibration and giving manufacturers a better understanding Sales to our telecoms customers declined in 2015 harshness NVH offering to include engineering of how a product will perform by predicting following strong growth in 2014.
We see good services with the acquisition in November of component life and reliability performance.
opportunities in this market to provide additional Sound Answers, a USA-based provider of NVH This reduces development and test time, services, for example in test-rig design and consulting expertise.
Sound Answers has been a avoids unexpected in-service failures and calibration, thereby improving the resilience of strategic partner for nine years and we will now reduces maintenance and warranty costs.
ourrevenues in a sector where sales patterns be able to offer our customers new capabilities, arelumpy, reflecting the scheduling of projects such as troubleshooting and product development bycustomers.
Segment outlook services, which are unmatched within the sound and vibration industry.
This positions us well to In 2016 we expect market conditions in the serve the increasing demand from the automotive Whilst the weakness in the unconventional oil automotive and aerospace sectors to benefit industry to understand the NVH characteristics of and gas and mining markets in 2015 led to fromfurther growth in engineering software vehicles and engines in order to gain competitive reduced demand for our microseismic monitoring applications, together with improving demand advantage and meet legislative requirements.
solutions, we made good progress developing from the telecoms market and a good and extending our offering to these industries, contribution from acquisitions.
The academic Underlying demand from the aerospace sector both organically and inorganically.
As well as research market is expected to remain subdued remains robust, although sales in this sector continuing to win key contracts against larger and market conditions in the oil and gas and decreased in 2015, primarily reflecting the competitors, we have begun to expand our mining industries are expected to remain adverse impact that economic sanctions on international presence outside North America, challenging: however, there are good prospects Russia had on our sales of satellite vibration establishing offices in the Middle East and for the increased adoption of microseismic testsystems to this country, together with fewer Mexico.
In October we acquired Spectraseis, a monitoring solutions in the coming years as large orders in the USA than in 2014.
Aerospace USA-based leader in surface-based microseismic customers seek to make better use of data companies continue to invest in the use of monitoring technology which is complementary analytics to improve productivity and profitability.
advanced composite materials to develop more to our existing offering and strengthens our fuel-efficient aircraft, and we are one of the few position in the growing induced seismicity suppliers capable of meeting their requirements monitoring market.
to test and verify the key characteristics of these new materials.
During the year we secured important orders from a major US-based aerospace company for data acquisition systems to stress test the Orion spacecraft and PULSE software analysers to test sound and vibration inits satellite systems.
com OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED PROCESS MANUFACTURING BUSINESSES OVERVIEW FROM THE BUSINESS GROUP DIRECTOR The seven operating companies in In-line Jo Hallas Instrumentation and Industrial Controls sell their Business Group Director products, services and solutions into the discrete and process manufacturing sectors covering a number of key industries see industry breakdown charts in the segment reviews which follow.
The operating companies within these segments are predominantly exposed to the level of investment devoted to enhancing productivity within these industries.
Many of IN-LINE INSTRUMENTATION INDUSTRIAL CONTROLS these industries are highly regulated, and the Within In-line Instrumentation we are seeing Within Industrial Controls the growth in need to comply with national and international greater use of software, simulation and data industrial connectivity solutions and the legislation and regulations also results in analytics in the process, power and energy Industrial Internet of Things IIoT is an increased demand for our products and services.
industries as a means of saving cost by increasingly important demand driver for our improving the utilisation and uptime of businesses.
Many of our customers have a Around two-thirds of the revenue across these existing assets, making better, more vision that we aim to support whereby every segments is derived from customers operating informed decisions and streamlining machine in a manufacturing process is able to expense budgets: the vast majority of products processes.
As the cost pressures within communicate with all other machines and sold within Industrial Controls are typically small theseindustries increase, so we expect devices, including older equipment, both enough in value to be viewed as consumables by thistrend to accelerate.
across the factory floor and remotely located.
customers, whilst within In-line Instrumentation In-line Instrumentation is also well placed to By being able to connect both new and there is a significant portion of revenue derived benefit from the growth in renewable energy legacy devices in order to monitor and control from both consumables e. g. coating blades markets around the world.
For example, data, customers can use that information forthe pulp and paper industry and during 2015 there was strong growth for our toimprove operational productivity and services e. g. condition monitoring and businesses exposed to supporting the wind efficiency, thereby gaining a competitive diagnostic services.
energy market, as more countries strove advantage.
Having made two acquisitions in to increase the proportion of energy this area around five years ago, we have since Increasingly, the need by customers to drive requirements being met by wind and other then focussed on expanding our product greater cost efficiency whilst dealing with renewable sources.
During 2015 we established an IIoT increased complexity in production and trend should continue, helping to offset Innovation Centre in the USA with a focussed application processes is creating a demand for what is expected to be more challenging engineering, product and sales team simpler products and services that are easier market conditions within the conventional dedicated to building on our existing IIoT andquicker to install and more intuitive to use.
energy industries of oil, gas and coal.
expertise and products and also developing During 2015 we launched solutions such as new solutions for machine-to-machine and anew laser gas analyser MiniLaser and human-to-machine communication.
webbrowser-based machine vision inspection interface CloudLink that are specifically designed with the dual customer imperatives for products and services that have hitherto only markets needs where the standards required, ofcost saving and convenience in mind, and been required in large quantities in developed interms of quality, design, health and safety weexpect to launch more solutions with markets.
This, for example, is fuelling strong andenvironmental impact, are often higher.
thesetypes of benefits going forward.
growth in the global tissue and packaging markets.
In addition, in order for the process In addition, there are trends specific to certain The continued economic development and discrete manufacturing industries within industries that we see impacting our In-line ofemerging markets also drives demand these regions to compete globally, there is a Instrumentation and Industrial Controls forourproducts, services and solutions.
need to raise both the quality and consistency segments today and in the future, as noted Risingprosperity in these markets is creating increaseddemand from within these countries ofproduction processes to meet developed in the box above.
38 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 IN-LINE INSTRUMENTATION Sales Geographical breakdown % Industry breakdown % 255.0M 30 35 6 2014: 261.4M Operating profit 24 36.8M 30 2014: 48.0M 13 28 34 Aftermarket sales as % of sales North America Asia Pulp, paper & tissue Converting, extrusion 41% Europe Rest of the World Energy & utilities &packaging 2014: 41% Other Segment performance our growth opportunities in this segment, we Reported sales decreased 2%, reflecting an have seen a positive market reaction to our new adverse impact of 1% from foreign currency advanced material coating blades, which drove higher sales into the segment in the second half.
exchange movements and a LFL sales decline of 1%.
Geographically, LFL sales to North America were broadly unchanged, while LFL sales to In the energy and utilities market, we achieved Europe and Asia were marginally lower than modest growth in sales, with strong growth in our in2014.
LFL operating profit fell 19% and LFL sales to the wind energy market being partially operating margins were down 3.3 pp to 15.1%, offset by a modest fall in sales to the downstream A Swedish manufacturer of premium toilet reflecting the impact of reduced sales, some petrochemicals industry.
In the wind energy market tissue reported a recurring problem with price pressure in specific markets and adverse we continue to see favourable global trends, which surface damage to one of their yankee sales mix.
contributed to good sales growth across all regions, dryers, thelarge cylinder used to dry the particularly Asia and Europe.
In addition to an tissue substrate.
Using a combination of our In the pulp and paper market, growth improved increase in sales to existing customers we also PROdry thermal imaging diagnostic services, progressively through the year with a good managed to broaden our customer base, with a Vigilance blade vibration monitoring system second half performance more than number of significant contract wins from wind farm and expert applications advice, we helped compensating for the LFL sales decline in the first operators.
We are in the process of strengthening the customer identify the source of the half.
Growth in our sales to the tissue and pulp our sales and marketing organisation, including the problem and resolve the issue, minimising segments reflected continuing positive trends in expansion of our regional office network, and we machine downtime and saving over those markets as well as our success in offering have increased our focus on the provision of 200,000 inlost profit and repairs.
customers new solutions incorporating our innovative solutions to our customers.
For example, high-performance creping blades and other during the year we introduced a solution that instrumentation, such as our new control sensors combines hardware and software to enable for pulp mill automation.
This growth in tissue customers to view all information from any machine and pulp sales was partially offset by lower sales protection system in their plant on one diagnostic into the graphic paper segment.
Since its launch in the middle of the year this capacity in China, in particular, continued to limit solution has been positively received by customers.
com OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED PROCESS MANUFACTURING BUSINESSES CONTINUED Our sales to the downstream petrochemicals Asia.
Whilst these industries have recently been pulp markets, all of which are helping to offset the industry fell modestly over the year as a whole, experiencing cyclical softness we continue to see ongoing structural challenges in the graphic paper after showing good growth in the first half of the attractive growth opportunities.
We made good and coated paperboard markets.
This partially reflects the slowdown in the progress developing new systems that extend our energy and utilities sector is expected to be modest oil and gas sector, which has resulted in falling offering for these industries, such as the SlimTrak in 2016.
Underlying market conditions in the investment levels and fewer large projects being single beam scanner, a compact, cost-effective renewable energy sector remain healthy and our progressed.
We launched a major new product scanner for narrow web converting processes that new solutions for this market have been well received.
However, the slowdown in the oil and gas platform for the industrial gases market, a laser is targetted at paper and plastic film converting sector that impacted our sales to the downstream gas analyser called the MiniLaser, which is more applications.
Following the creation in 2014 of petrochemicals industry in the latter part of 2015 is powerful, smaller and lighter than other products NDC Technologies, we have now aligned the expected to continue into 2016.
In the web and in the market, resulting in significantly easier and combined sales forces of the previous businesses converting industries we expect to see some modest lower-cost installation for customers.
During the around single industry verticals in order to give us growth after a weak 2015, together with moderate year we launched important applications of the more effective coverage in our markets and better benefits from our new product launches and the MiniLaser for the petrochemicals, combustion and support for our customers.
creation of single sales teams to service key industry power markets, and customer reaction to date verticals.
We will also continue to increase the focus has been extremely positive.
Segment outlook on operational excellence initiatives across the We are encouraged by the improved performance of segment in order to improve future profitability.
Sales to the web and converting industries our pulp and paper business in the second half of declined significantly during the year, mainly due 2015, the positive customer response to our new to a lack of large projects in North America and instruments and solutions and the robust tissue and INDUSTRIAL CONTROLS Sales Geographical breakdown % Industry breakdown % 219.3M 1 72 19 2014: 220.6M 14 6 Operating profit 13 32 35.3M 2014: 44.6M 43 Aftermarket sales as % of sales North America Asia Semicon, telecoms & Distribution 1% Europe Rest of the World electronics Other 2014: 1% Pharmaceuticals & finechemicals 40 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 common ERP system across the majority of its Segment performance business and delivered good growth from its Reported sales decreased 1%, including a one operations established in recent years in Asia, percentage point contribution from acquisitions Latin America and Europe.
and a positive impact of five percentage points from foreign currency exchange movements.
As The Industrial Internet of Things IIoT is one of a result, LFL sales decreased 7%.
LFL operating our key strategic markets and during 2015 we profit fell 27% and LFL operating margins were established an IIoT Innovation Centre in the down 4.3 pp to 15.9%, reflecting the impact of USA, with a focussed engineering, product and reduced sales, adverse sales mix and the net sales team dedicated to building on our existing cost of targetted restructuring actions.
We also MicroHAWK is Microscans latest generation IIoT expertise and products, and developing new incurred additional resource costs at Omega of barcode readers, setting a new benchmark solutions for machine-to-machine and humanwhich were required to protect service levels in automatic identification and data capture to-machine communication.
during the launch of a new ERPsystem.
At 25.4mm by 44.5mm, the MicroHAWK ID-40 is the worlds smallest In August, we purchased Label Vision Systems, With over 70% of this segments sales being industrial IP65 67-rated barcode reader aUS-based company whose technology enables tocustomers in North America, the key driver available.
The system is easy to use with companies to comply with new US legislation behind the LFL sales decrease was the WebLink, the first-ever web-based barcode on product identification marking to improve significant weakness in US industrial production, reader interface, users just plug in and open traceability throughout the manufacturing particularly in the second half of the year, across a browser on their phone or tablet.
The business is performing a wide range of industries.
This weakness welland its integration into Microscan is adversely affected the performance of all three proceeding to plan.
Segment outlook operating companies in this segment.
The oil Given the significant exposure to the USA, sales and gas sector suffered particularly during the The year also saw a number of key product progress for this segment in 2016 will be largely year and this was felt most acutely in our launches and developments.
In September, dependent on a recovery of US industrial industrial networking business, Red Lion ourmachine vision business launched the markets.
We expect contributions from recent Controls, following strong sales to this market MicroHAWK, a modular and scalable industrial product launches, the acquisition of Label Vision in 2014. barcode imager and smart camera platform.
Systems and the investments made in Omega, Wealso enhanced our series of industrial cellular together with the targetted restructuring In Asia, we saw continued good progress in the routers through the addition of functionality to measures taken in 2015 and a heightened focus development of our process measurement and provide automatic alerts to operatives, and on operational excellence initiatives, to improve control business, Omega.
In Europe, we saw launched a major new series of temperature future profitability.
Over the medium term the amixed performance from our operating andprocess controllers targetted at customers need for customers to improve productivity and companies, with a challenging year for our inthe laboratory and in the factory automation efficiency is expected to result in increased industrial networking business being partially and chemical industries.
demand for factory automation and industrial offset by growth in sales of process measurement and control products, and automatic identification networking products, particularly in China and and machine vision solutions.
Our technical expertise was recognised other developing markets such as Mexico.
during the year in several awards won by Despite the challenging market conditions, our businesses.
For example, our industrial wemade good strategic progress in a number networking business gained broad recognition ofareas.
for the quality of its products from Control Design, a US trade journal.
Omega has continued to invest in and enhance its digital marketing capabilities, installed a 41 www.
