STRATEGIC REPORT Operating review Delivering for our patients 2015 PERFORMANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE ANDREW WHITE We judge our performance using a range We welcome the increase in scrutiny that the CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER of metrics and key performance indicators CQCs new inspections bring.
Experience of KPIs mapped to a balanced scorecard the process so far indicates that our hospitals Andrew White, Chief Operating that covers service quality, people and are in the main, Good and Outstanding engagement, reputation, and shareholder in some areas, but there are elements for Officer, joined Spire Healthcare value.
We track our engagement and improvement.
We address all such areas as in November 2015.
Working reputation through regular annual surveys.
with our four operations Patient satisfaction is high.
In order to align We have revised the format of our own our rating of patient satisfaction with the clinical reviews to mirror the CQCs approach directors and our hospital NHS and other providers, we introduced a across the five domains it reviews safe, directors around the country, Net Promoter Score NPS measure for our effective, caring, responsive and well led.
friends and family question, under which Our assurance team already has robust and Andrew and the management we were rated 82 out of a possible 100 in valuable management information, but by team run the business day-to- 2015.
High patient satisfaction levels were aligning our risk-based approach and using also evidenced by patients responses peer review we have developed a good day, building capacity and regarding overall service quality, with 98% of feedback loop so we can all learn from our capability as we implement our patients rating overall quality of service experiences and continually improve.
either Excellent or Very good.
Our hospitals in Wales are regulated by Consultant satisfaction continues to be high, Healthcare Inspectorate Wales HIW and with 79% rating our quality of service either those in Scotland by Healthcare Improvement Excellent or Very good.
The proportion of Scotland HIS.
There were no inspections consultants who believe that our hospitals go in 2015 by HIW.
Both Scottish hospitals out of their way to make a difference to their were inspected by HIS in 2015.
Ratings are working relationship is 96%, the same as last provided against five quality standards: Spire year and those who would be Certain or Murrayfield Hospital scored Very good on all Very likely to recommend a Spire Healthcare five standards, and Spire Shawfair Park Hospital hospital to their friends and family was scored four Very good and one Good.
Looking ahead, we will continue to develop 77% of our staff responded to our 2015 Staff Spire Healthcares management system as Engagement Survey, an increase of 3% on the well as build on our culture as a learning previous year.
This is a good response rate organisation.
and overall engagement improved 2% on We are also subject to compliance with the 2014 to 88%.
Further details of the positive Competition and Markets Authoritys Private results from our Staff Engagement Survey Healthcare Market Investigation Order 2014, can be found in Our people, the section that which came into effect in 2015.
Our legal team follows this review, on pages 42 to 45. undertook a detailed review of any potentially All in all, we are very pleased with a good non-compliant arrangements at each of our performance for the year.
hospitals to ensure each one was compliant by the designated deadline of April 2015.
38 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 1,2 DISTRIBUTION OF THEATRE UTILISATION BY HOSPITAL 63% Average utilisation 1 M anagement assumes theatres can be utilised Utilisation was broadly stable.
The small 6 Less than 50% 2,850 hours per year 10 hours per weekday and decrease in the year mainly reflects lower seven hours per Saturday, totalling 250 weekdays 10 5060% utilisation in the post-installation period, and 50 Saturdays per year.
2 I ncludes one joint theatre utilisation rate for as several new theatres were brought into Spire Murrayfield Edinburgh and Spire Shawfair 8 6070% service during the final quarter of 2014 and Park hospitals.
3 8090% Nil 90100% Spire Methley Park Hospital 7.5 million income at hospital level.
We have received OPERATIONAL EXPANSION development scheme which will see a full authorisation for our services from both During the year, we opened our second refurbishment of administration areas, the CQC and under the Ionising Radiation Specialist Care Centre in Baddow, offering bedrooms and theatres.
Due for Medical Exposure Regulations 2000 IRMER.
external beam radiotherapy and  in late 2016 This now enables us to concentrate on art cancer planning and treatment techniques further developing the business as the basis to patients in Essex.
More details of this Spire Southampton Hospital 2.5 million of an overall Spire Healthcare screening centre, and our specialist development team project to enlarge existing ward due for service offering.
that opened it, on time and under budget, completion in 2016.
In addition, we have can be found on pages 41 and 57. approval to invest in a da Vinci surgical In 2015, our pathology laboratories robot in 2016 undertook 2.2 million tests and showed a A significant development at Spire 12% improvement in operational efficiency St Anthonys Hospital during 2015 was Spire Clare Park Hospital 1.9 million MRI cost per test.
We have also been leading the construction of a 27 million purposescanner, opened in November plus 2.5 the way in the transition from CPC to ISO built complex, increasing capacity to six million endoscopy unit, due for completion accreditation and we now have three theatres, replacing four.
This is due for in 2016 laboratories fully accredited Cardiff, completion in mid 2016.
We will also begin the process of Southampton, Portsmouth with three Other projects that ran in 2015: commissioning our two new hospitals, more due for assessment in 2016. in Manchester and Nottingham, which Spire Hesslewood Clinic, part of Spire We also expanded our pathology service, are due to open in 2017.
Hull and East Riding Hospital, a standalone opening a new laboratory at Spire Cambridge clinic opened in February 2015 and Turning to other areas of our business, Hospital.
The focus for 2016 will be on further has seen positive business growth in November, Perform at St Georges Park exploiting capabilities within the Spire in its first year extended its partnership by two years with Healthcare network and developing the League Managers Association to provide opportunities in the wider pathology market, Spire Elland Hospital new 2.6 million its Perform for Life health and wellbeing as well as developing laboratories for Spire theatre which began operating in screening assessments.
As well as working Hull and East Riding Hospital and our two summer 2015 with hundreds of members of the public, new hospitals in Manchester and Nottingham.
Spire Leeds Hospital 0.4 million the centre also saw a steady stream of top ambulatory care unit which began athletes and sportsmen and women, OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY operating in Q4 2015 including boxer, James DeGale, and potential We continue to drive margin through a close Team GB Olympian, Emma Jackson.
In focus on improving operational efficiency.
Spire Roding Hospital 1.2 million addition, the centre hosted Ireland and This requires a balanced approach.
Bone and Joint Centre began operating Argentina during the Rugby Union World in Q4 2015 We operate a devolved business model, Cup and also England Rugby League during where local leadership and local teams are Spire Parkway Hospital 9.0 million their three-match test series against New empowered to do the right thing for local theatre expansion and chemotherapy Zealand in November.
However, all our development with endoscopy unit and Despite challenging trading conditions, hospitals work within Spire Healthcares a new Storz OR1 theatre Lifescan, our screening service, delivered operating framework management system.
Spire Cheshire Hospital 1.3 million 7% revenue and 58% EBITDAR growth during Maintaining the right balance, in terms of endoscopy unit, due for completion the year.
The integration of this business central protocols, requirements and quality in early 2016 into the Spire Healthcare network is almost standards, aligned with driving local growth complete and has successfully delivered not and performance, remains a key aspect of Spire Hull and East Riding Hospital only its own revenue stream and improved operational management.
3.3 million development comprising profitability, but also new downstream a purpose-built clinic and new MRI CT provision, which is due for completion in 2016 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 39 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating review continued In my first few months, I have been visiting our 38 hospitals and what has struck me most is Spire Healthcares strong, caring culture, totally focused on the patient.
And talking to staff all around the UK theyre a great team of highly motivated people who want to do the right thing for our patients and truly make a difference.
ANDREW WHITE, CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER We have instituted a monthly forum for It was a strong year for the National We will continue to seek ways in which all our Hospital Directors to meet and share Distribution Centre NDC in Droitwich.
we can improve operational efficiency, experiences and best practice.
A task force Successful audits were carried out on two while always safely delivering outstanding has been formed to concentrate on assisting of the nationally recognised standards with healthcare to our patients.
our lowest quartile performers, drive which we comply.
The NDC also undertook In terms of work flow and patient care, improvement and deliver consistent compliance audits as part of being a critical we will be moving beyond theatre utilisation, performance right across the portfolio.
To support the NDC to work on theatre optimisation.
That Quality Management System, Q-Pulse, a Theatre utilisation is a key performance means planning for the right teams to be in software system has been implemented, indicator of operational efficiency.
Average the right theatres at the right time, with the which will provide all NDC employees with utilisation marginally decreased to 63% appropriate skill mix, the correct consumable a central focal point for all compliance data, 2014: 64% across our hospitals in 2015. packs and kits for the procedures all to materials and activities.
In addition, Q-Pulse Several hospitals were integrating new make the journey faster and smoother for the will make management aware of areas in theatres in 2015, including the new Spire patient and make our service the most usable need of attention if their compliance statuses Elland Hospital theatre, which initially and for our consultants.
The bi-yearly external Health and Safety Operational efficiency spans the full patient Audit was conducted and the total risk journey from admissions forecasting, Andrew White management score was 85 out of 90 94% enquiry conversion, admission processing Chief Operating Officer compliance.
Areas of merit included risk and theatre utilisation, through to timeliness, 16 March 2016 assessments, incident investigation and quality of discharge and post-operative document control.
Doing this well has a direct impact on safety, quality and ultimately, 2016 patient satisfaction.
As we continue to expand and grow, one of the biggest challenges facing Spire We continue to develop our IT systems, Healthcare and the entire UK healthcare an integrated patient, financial and system is finding, recruiting and retaining supply chain system, providing improved the best staff particularly nurses.
management information, cost savings and streamlined administration processes.
We are working to develop our recruitment During 2015, we integrated the newly and retention strategies.
Further details acquired Spire St Anthonys Hospital into our of our human resources approach can be IT system, developed a new suite of theatre found in the section, Our people, that follows utilisation tools enabling more efficient this review on page 42, and this will be an scheduling, and began the roll-out of area of particular focus during 2016. real-time bar code stock tracking.
The development and opening of our new We have also implemented a new Customer hospitals in Manchester and Nottingham, Relationship Management CRM system during 2016 17, will require not only the which is fully integrated with our SAP system.
recruitment of additional staff but also The new CRM system will improve enquiry the support of our procurement and stock management and conversion, and call management teams throughout next year.
handling, and enable direct patient bookings for insurers and GPs.
40 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DELIVERING THE SPECIALIST CARE PATIENTS NEED, IN THE FACILITIES THEY WANT BRIDGING THE GAP Offering specialist cancer care, in tailor-made surroundings, is part of our strategy to offer The UK has fewer LINACs per head of population than France, Germany, higher acuity services to our patients.
Our continued development of Specialist Care Centres means a significant increase MAKING THE DIFFERENCE to the private provision of LINACs, which currently stands at only 20 machines nationwide outside Greater London.
Our latest Specialist Care Centre opened robotic couch and a wide-bore CT scanner RADIOTHERAPY CENTRES in Baddow in November 2015 bringing equipped with 4D imaging capabilities.
PER MILLION PEOPLE state-of-the-art cancer treatment to Essex The centre treats a broad range of and the wider region.
cancers including breast, gynaecological, Switzerland 3.3 The consultant-led centre houses two prostate, head, neck, skin and lung cancers Germany 2.7 LINACs linear accelerators which direct using state-of-the-art treatment and high energy beams to conform to a verification techniques.
France 2.7 tumours shape and destroy cancer cells.
As with our first Specialist Care Centre This enables clinicians to provide highly Italy 2.5 in Bristol, the centre enables Spire targeted radiotherapy, which means Healthcare to offer integrated end-to-end UK 1.2 much greater precision for patients as care for patients from diagnosis right healthy tissue surrounding tumours can be Source: Ambrafund.
Special additions include a 6D PATIENTS INVOLVED ALL THE WAY ROB ANDERSON Operations Director Cancer survival rates in this Treatment is always personal but cancer treatments, often requiring country are at the highest they multiple visits, create particularly strong have ever been.
Investment bonds between our patients, their in new technology and state-ofhospitals and their clinical teams.
In developing our Specialist Care Centres the-art treatment centres like we have used patient input at all stages this will help push that figure in creating the calm and positive internal even higher.
environments that are so important for reassurance, tranquillity and confidence.
All aspects of colour, art and aesthetics come together to help our patients on the road to recovery.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 41
