STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONS Q&A STRONG OPERATIONAL PROGRESS Our Chief Operating Officer, Paul McDade, and Exploration Director, Angus McCoss, discuss Tullows progress and challenges in 2015 and the Groups plans for the year ahead.
MSP was not only about people, it was also about reducing Q Tullow has reacted to lower oil prices and simplifying processes and we have now implemented by implementing the Major Simplification a new, simpler Integrated Management System IMS Project MSP to restructure the organisation, which more clearly sets out all our Policies and Standards reduce costs and increase efficiency.
How which all staff can access online.
The IMS houses all the documents which define how we go about our operations has this project changed Tullows approach and sets appropriate standards and accountabilities.
AM: As Aidan mentioned in his statement, exploration PM: MSP has not fundamentally changed our approach to continues to be key to Tullows organic long-term growth.
Development and Production, but it has certainly made our MSP has impacted all teams across Tullow but it has not teams more efficient and cost conscious, which was a major changed the fundamentals of finding oil.
Given where objective of the project.
We now have three Business Delivery Tullow is in its business cycle, with our focus on creating Teams BDTs, West Africa, East Africa and New Ventures, value from our oil discoveries and in the context of the and these groups have been more empowered by the shift industry downturn, we have proactively reduced our nearin the organisational design.
Each of the BDTs has a clear term exploration drilling investments.
We have been working purpose and work programme to deliver and, through a hard to do more with less and we continue to build on our more rigorous approach to performance management, exploration portfolio and execute strategic deals to bring the BDTs are continually challenged by the Senior Leaders in good partners and share our capital exposures and risks.
across the Group to ensure these activities are being While its been hard to say farewell to members of the team, delivered in a safe and efficient manner.
We have not we retain some of the best minds and talent in the industry, compromised on any of our Safety, Sustainability and who are focused and driven to be leading explorers, using External Affairs SSEA standards, and this remains a cutting-edge technology and scientific methods to discover focus of every aspect of our operations.
34 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 1 We retain some of the best minds and talent in the industry, who are focused and driven to be leading explorers, using cutting-edge technology and scientific methods to discover a low-cost supply of oil.
In exploration and development geosciences, our priorities discoveries, there have been encouraging signs of working are capturing material new acreage positions through petroleum systems which keep us very interested in the the New Ventures Business Delivery Team, supported regions oil potential.
We have also progressed our initial by seasoned functional experts.
We are also focused studies in the Caribbean-Guyanas, completing a seismic on maturing drill-worthy prospects and leads and survey offshore Suriname and bathymetric and drop core discovering and appraising valuable oil.
Our New Ventures team remains very encouraged by the studies being undertaken in this underexplored region and this is reflected through farm-ins by Q Capital allocations were adjusted in 2015, reputable industry partners and additional acreage we what activities have you prioritised?
PM: Development of the TEN field in Ghana has been a priority in 2015, and this past year was the most capital Q Is East Africa still a priority?
intensive period of the project, with around $0.9 billion PM: East Africa is a very significant project for Tullow with invested.
In 2016, the capital outlay on the development estimated gross resources of around 2,300 mmbo and of TEN will be around $0.6 billion.
I am pleased that this the low development cost of the project very much suits important project remains on track and on budget, with the current low oil price environment.
We remain fully first oil due in July or August 2016.
Keeping this deepwater committed to progressing this development and continue project on schedule and within budget is a testament to to work closely with the Governments of Uganda and Kenya Tullows project delivery skills, and this ability to deliver to ensure that all parties will benefit from a combined is very important to the Company as it will see us steadily East African development of the Lake Albert Uganda increase Group net production to around 100,000 bopd, and South Lokichar Kenya discoveries.
In Kenya we supporting the cash flow generation of the business.
have now completed the planned appraisal programme Tullow also allocated capital to Jubilee where we of the South Lokichar Basin and this enabled us to submit have maintained gross production levels averaging a draft field development plan to the Government of Kenya 102,600 bopd 36,400 bopd net to Tullow, exceeding in December 2015.
We expect to be in a position to finalise guidance.
This low-cost production means we can generate the development plan with the Government in 2016.
In positive cash flows, even at these low oil prices.
In 2016, Uganda, the development plans have already been we expect production costs to reduce further and we will submitted and we are now discussing the award of continue to scrutinise every dollar of capital allocated as the Production Licences with the Government.
we manage this world-class asset in the current low oil The next milestones towards achieving a Final Investment price environment.
We continued to invest capital in our Decision FID include agreeing pipeline routing, completing portfolio of non-operated assets in West Africa, maintaining FEED for the pipeline and upstream developments and production in 2015 at 30,200 bopd.
As we go into 2016, we finalising the commercial agreement.
expect the level of capital allocation on these assets to be reduced significantly.
AM: We have previously stated that we see the exploration potential of a billion barrels of oil in the South Lokichar AM: We prioritised the E&A programme in East Africa to Basin and we still stand by this.
The Etom-2 appraisal well fully underpin the estimated 600 mmbo gross recoverable in December 2015 opened up a new area in the far north resources discovered in the South Lokichar Basin in Kenya.
This area has an unrisked potential of around This saw us drill nine successful appraisal wells and 350 mmbo.
Due to the completion of a 3D seismic survey in complete extended well tests at the Ngamia and Amosing the area, we have a much clearer picture of how we can build fields which enabled us to gain useful data to support on the already discovered resources.
We are considering how development planning.
We also continued to explore further we can incorporate this important area into our development undrilled basins in our Kenyan acreage.
We drilled three plans and will be reviewing our 2016 exploration programme wildcat wells, and although we did not make any commercial to see if we can test some of the undrilled prospects in the north of the basin.
com 35 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONS Q&A CONTINUED deflation in development costs.
Independent studies indicate Q How has the exploration market changed?
that our East African development could benefit from an AM: Theres been a lot less exploration around the world and overall capital cost reduction of over 20 per cent, further in turn fewer barrels discovered as companies, like Tullow, reducing the development cost of this attractive development.
have reduced exploration and appraisal capex and focused on near-term cash flow.
We drilled three wildcats and nine Q What are you looking forward to in 2016?
appraisal wells in Kenya, a single exploration well in AM: Despite a highly focused budget in 2016, we continue Gabon, Pakistan and Suriname and we participated in to be excited about our Kenyan acreage and a series of three wildcats in Norway.
Additionally, three non-operated prospects being prepared for drilling in the South Lokichar low-equity appraisal wells supported our gas production Basin.
We are also encouraged by the opportunities in the from the Netherlands.
From 20 wells, 10 were commercially market for new acreage, and the team is busy looking into successful, with the Pakistan well result pending flow testing all these opportunities in Africa and South America.
From our experience in 2015, the exploration hope to be in some new licences by the end of 2016 and industry remains buoyant in terms of farm-outs and we will be preparing for drilling operations in 2017, where farm-ins and it is clear that our existing exploration acreage we plan to drill some key trigger wells looking for basin is highly valued within the industry.
Tullow has successfully opening success.
reduced its equity levels in a number of licences, in order to reduce its exposure to costs and gain carries for exploration PM: Delivery of first oil at activities.
Were focused on TEN in July or August will refreshing and high grading be a very special event for our portfolio and Ghana, Tullow and our concentrating on seismic It will be good to see our teams continue Partners.
We are all focused interpretation in order to to capably adapt to this changing oil price on safely completing the identify and prepare the best environment, whilst not compromising our high final stages of this project drill-ready prospects for operating standards and ensuring that we on time and on budget, when the cycle turns and and achieving this will be continue to reduce costs and maximise revenue.
capital becomes available a testament to our teams for our team capability, our contractors of explorers.
delivery and the Partnerships ongoing commitment to Ghana.
In addition Q Has the oil price decline resulted in Tullows to TEN, it will be good to see our teams continue to capably operating costs falling?
adapt to this changing oil price environment, whilst not compromising our high operating standards and ensuring PM: In our operated assets in Ghana, we are starting to that we continue to reduce costs and maximise revenue.
see our underlying operating costs opex reduce, due to the impact of both market deflation and increased efficiency post the implementation of MSP.
The market deflation is industry wide as service providers adjust to the low oil price environment we are currently in and this will lead to continued downward pressure on opex in our operated and non-operated assets.
We are taking the opportunity to renegotiate many of our contracts, where appropriate, to take advantage of this market deflation.
In addition, as we MORE INFORMATION start up production from the TEN fields, we will benefit from TEN special feature 22 the significant synergies from the shared resources that will Operations review 37 service the increased production volume.
In addition to the Responsible Operations 46 reduction in operating costs, we are seeing very significant 36 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts OPERATIONS REVIEW 1 FOCUS ON OPERATIONAL DELIVERY Tullows operations are managed by three Business Delivery Teams for West Africa, East Africa and New Ventures.
The Group has delivered strong operational performance in 2015 across its portfolio of exploration, development and production assets.
maintenance shutdown scheduled for March 2016 and a period of reduced water injection capacity during the WEST AFRICA first half of the year which is currently being addressed.
During the year, Jubilee Phase 1A drilling and completions continued with two oil producers coming on stream in September and December and a water injector which has yet to be completed.
With the Phase 1A investment programme nearing completion, Tullow and partners submitted the Greater Jubilee Full Field Development GJFFD Plan in December 2015 and discussions are ongoing with the Government regarding its progress.
This project, to extend field production and increase commercial reserves, has been redesigned given the current environment to reduce the overall capital requirement and allow flexibility in the timing of the capital investment.
During 2016 and beyond, a continued focus on cost reduction opportunities and the careful balancing of future capital investment initiatives, including infill drilling as part of the GJFFD, will be key as Tullow seeks to ensure maximum return on investment from this world-class oil field.
Key Offices TEN Regional information 2015 The TEN Project continues to make excellent progress, is Countries 7 over 85 per cent complete, and remains within budget and Licences 55 on schedule for first oil between July and August 2016.
To Acreage sq km 16,571 date, all the key milestones of the project have been met, including the sailaway of the TEN FPSO from Singapore to Production boepd 73,400 Ghana on 23 January 2016.
The vessel sailed with almost Reserves & resources mmboe 559 zero carry over, which means that only 2,000 man hours Sales revenue $m 1,607 out of a total 17 million man hours of work remain to be 2015 investment $m 1,286 completed during the vessels journey to Ghana, a very significant industry achievement.
Arrival in Ghana is West Africa BDT manages Mauritanian production expected to be in early March and the vessel will move Ghana directly to the installation phase where it will be fixed to the Jubilee seabed using pre-installed anchor chains and piles.
This is The Jubilee field exceeded its gross production target followed by the hook-up of subsea facilities to the FPSO via during 2015, averaging 102,600 bopd net: 36,400 bopd.
A flowline risers and control umbilicals, much of which has stable rate of gas offtake has been achieved following final also been pre-installed.
The 11 pre-drilled wells are now commissioning of the onshore gas processing plant in March being completed with the sixth completion under way.
The 2015, averaging around 90 mmscfd in the fourth quarter of integrated facilities will undergo final commissioning and the year.
This strong gas export performance significantly testing during the second quarter and following start-up, a reduced the requirement for gas reinjection at the field.
gradual ramp up in production towards plateau is anticipated Tullow is forecasting Jubilee 2016 average production during the second half of 2016.
Tullow estimates that TEN to be around 101,000 bopd gross net: 36,000 bopd.
average production in 2016 will be around 23,000 bopd This reflects the impact of a planned two week FPSO gross net: 11,000 bopd.
com 37 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONS REVIEW CONTINUED Tullow operative on the Jubilee FPSO, offshore Ghana TEN FPSO in Singapore, prior to sailaway The overall gross capex cost of the development remains In Cte dIvoire, the first five wells of the Espoir Phase 3 infill at around $5 billion, without FPSO lease costs.
Total gross campaign have successfully been completed.
Around 14,000 capex to first oil is expected to be around $4 billion after bopd gross have been added to the Espoir fields production which the remaining capex is largely associated with the since the start of the drilling programme.
Up to a further drilling and completion of an additional 13 wells.
The export six wells are due to be drilled in 2016 which will continue of associated gas from the TEN field is scheduled to start to support strong production from the field.
up one year after first oil.
Tullow is guiding 2016 net capex In Congo Brazzaville, additional infill wells were drilled for the development to be around $600 million with across the MBoundi field during 2015.
The rig was released approximately 75 per cent being spent in the first half in July and the partners are reviewing field performance of the year in preparation for first oil.
before a rig returns to drill a further three wells in the In April 2015, the Special Chamber of the International second half of 2016.
Tribunal of the Law of the Sea ITLOS in Hamburg rejected In Equatorial Guinea, activity during 2015 focused on Cte dIvoires request that Ghana be ordered to suspend all improving operating efficiencies and asset integrity at the oil exploration and exploitation in the disputed zone including Hess operated Ceiba and Okume fields.
A subsea workover the TEN Project.
ITLOS ordered a number of provisional on an existing Ceiba well will be completed in the second measures which both Ghana and Cte dIvoire are required quarter 2016.
The Joint Venture is currently reviewing the to comply with, including continued cooperation and no new 4D seismic shot over the Okume Complex to prepare an new drilling until ITLOS gives its decision on the maritime infill inventory to restart drilling on Elon and Oveng in 2017. boundary dispute, which is expected in late 2017.
It is therefore assumed that development drilling will not In Gabon, the drilling programmes on the Perenco operated recommence until the ITLOS proceedings have completed.
Field performance reviews are taking place with the hopes of restarting drilling late 2016.
West Africa non-operated portfolio The Etame infill drilling programme yielded good results at Working interest oil production from Tullows non-operated the new Etame and SEENT wellhead platforms.
Focusing on West African portfolio was in line with guidance in 2015, driving down operating costs remains a key objective ahead averaging 30,200 bopd net.
The region still generates of a potential resumption in drilling operations in late 2016 important operating cash flow for the Group with a low or early 2017.
During the year, Tullow regained its 7.5 per average operating cost of $15.0 bbl.
Production from the cent stake in the Onal Complex producing fields and the region is expected to be around 29,500 bopd net in 2016.
Ezanga block formerly the Omoueyi exploration block.
In Capital investment on development activities in 2016 will be addition, Tullow has been granted licence extensions in the reduced to around $100 million net to Tullow versus spend Onal Complex fields until 2034 and has gained access to two in 2015 of around $200 million.
The strategy across the small oil discoveries made within the Ezanga block in 2014. portfolio is to target investment decisions on activities In return for access to these discoveries, it was agreed that that limit the decline rates of these mature fields.
the effective date of the new licence would be 1 August 2015.
38 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 1 Completion of the appraisal drilling and testing campaign in the South Lokichar Basin underpins an estimated gross EAST AFRICA contingent recoverable resource base of 600 mmbo.
The new 3D seismic, which was used to locate the Etom-2 well which encountered the best oil reservoir quality to date, indicates significant remaining exploration prospectivity in the greater Etom area.
This supports an upside potential of 1 billion barrels of oil in the South Lokichar Basin.
Plans for further exploration drilling to test this upside will be evaluated during the first half of 2016.
Outside of the South Lokichar Basin, frontier exploration activity continued in 2015.
Three potential basin opening exploration wells were drilled across Tullows extensive Kenyan acreage in the North Kerio Epir-1, North Turkana Engomo-1 and North Lokichar Emesek-1 Basins.
While none of the wells were discoveries, they have provided valuable data to assess the wider prospectivity of the basins.
There is significant remaining exploration potential in the basins outside of South Lokichar and future basin opening exploration drilling plans are currently being evaluated.
Key Offices The Cheptuket-1 exploration well in Block 12A spudded on Regional information 2015 28 December.
The well will test a basin bounding structural Countries 2 closure in the undrilled Kerio Valley Basin, in a similar Licences 9 structural setting to the successful Ngamia and Amosing Acreage sq km 50,344 discoveries in the South Lokichar Basin.
Cheptuket-1 will Reserves & resources mmboe 636 likely complete drilling in late February after which the PR Marriott Rig-46 will demobilise, marking the end of the 2015 investment $m 305 current drilling campaign.
Kenya In November, Tullow agreed to farm down 25 per cent of In 2015, Tullows activities in Kenya largely focused on its 65 per cent operated working interest in Block 12A to completing the appraisal of the South Lokichar Basin Delonex for a carry.
This farm-down was completed on discoveries, gaining important reservoir data for the field 28 January 2016. development plans.
Nine appraisal wells were drilled and five Extended Well Tests EWTs were successfully completed at the Ngamia and Amosing fields.
Successful appraisal wells drilled included Ngamia-7, 8 and 9, Amosing-3, 4 and 5, Twiga-3, Ekales-2 and Etom-2.
In December, Etom-2, the most recent well drilled in the South Lokichar Basin, discovered 102 metres of net oil pay in high quality reservoir sands in an untested fault block identified on new 3D seismic.
The results of these appraisal wells have significantly advanced the subsurface definition of the main South Lokichar discoveries.
The EWTs conducted at the Amosing and Ngamia fields have demonstrated production rates and reservoir continuity over distances suitable for field development.
In the Amosing EWT, five separate zones were completed in the Amosing-1 and 2 wells.
The five zones produced at a cumulative average constrained rate of 4,300 bopd oil under natural flow conditions and good pressure communication was observed between the wells.
For the Ngamia EWTs, five separate zones were completed in the Ngamia-3, 6 and 8 wells.
The five zones produced at a cumulative average constrained rate of 2,400 bopd and all except the lowest zone produced under natural flow conditions.
During the EWTs, approximately 68,000 barrels of oil were produced into storage.
PR Marriott Rig-46 at the Etom-2 well site, Kenya www.
com 39 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONS REVIEW CONTINUED Uganda In Uganda, all appraisal activities and pre-FEED studies NEW VENTURES have been completed.
Significant progress has been made on several fiscal matters and in June 2015, the Government of Uganda announced that it had amended the VAT Act to exempt oil exploration and development from VAT.
Later in June, Tullow announced that it had agreed to pay the Uganda Revenue Authority $250 million in full and final settlement of its CGT liability for the farm-downs to Total and CNOOC completed in 2012.
This sum comprises $142 million that Tullow paid in 2012 and $108 million to be paid in three equal instalments.
The first of these was paid upon settlement and the remainder will be paid in 2016 and 2017.
These decisions are important steps towards the sanction of the Lake Albert development.
In July 2015, Tullow prequalified for the upcoming Uganda exploration bid round and evaluation is currently under way ahead of the 26 February bid deadline.
East Africa development Good progress continues to be made on development planning in Kenya.
A draft Field Development Plan was submitted to the Government of Kenya in December and Key Offices will inform discussions as we progress towards potential Regional information 2015 FID of both the Kenya and Uganda upstream development Countries 13 projects and preparation for FEED is under way in both Licences 58 countries.
Scoping studies and terms of reference for Acreage sq km 241,056 the detailed upstream environmental and social impact Reserves & resources mmboe 102 assessments were submitted to the regulatory authorities 2015 investment $m 129 in both countries.
In August 2015, a bilateral agreement was reached between Over 2015, Tullow has undertaken a strategic review of its the Presidents of Uganda and Kenya adopting the Northern New Ventures portfolio to determine how it can best use Kenya route for the regional crude oil pipeline, subject to this period of reduced industry exploration activity to prepare certain conditions.
These conditions, which include ensuring for future growth.
The focus has been on enhancing Tullows that this is the lowest cost route, are being worked on by licence and prospect inventory in preparation for increasing both Governments in conjunction with the Kenyan and drilling activity in future years.
The Group has also been Ugandan upstream parties.
actively managing its current equity positions and exposure to drilling costs across the portfolio through various transactions for carried interests.
A number of farm-downs are under way across the portfolio and this work will continue in the coming year.
In 2016, our main focus will be to continue to selectively replenish and high grade the exploration portfolio for future growth.
Africa In Mauritania, 2D seismic was acquired in the Block C-3 licence during the first quarter of 2015.
Tullow is hopeful of acquiring a new 3D survey across the shelf prospectivity in Blocks C-3 and C-10 during the next 12 to 24 months, to determine the exploration potential of both licences and areas for future exploration activity.
In June 2015, the Group agreed to farm down a 13.5 per cent interest in Block C-10 to Sterling Energy.
In Guinea, discussions have been ongoing with the Government and our Partners regarding the resumption of petroleum operations.
SCS Corporation, a subsidiary of Hyperdynamics Corporation, has unilaterally declared these discussions to be at an impasse and has commenced legal action against the other members of the joint venture.
Drilling at Amosing discovery, Kenya 40 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 1 In Gabon, further 3D seismic data was acquired during Q1 2015 in the Arouwe block, the results of which are currently under review.
In Namibia, interpretation of the 3D survey across the PEL30 and PEL37 licences has yielded significant prospectivity in shallow water in close proximity to the Wingat well in the adjacent licence which encountered oil in the Cretaceous.
South America and Caribbean Tullow has been active in the South America and Caribbean region in 2015, an area the Group considers to have great potential.
In Suriname, a 4,000 sq km 3D seismic programme of the Tullow-operated offshore Block 54 completed in September 2015.
This was followed by a 20 per cent farm out of Block 54 in October 2015 to Noble for a carry, leaving Tullow with a 30 per cent interest and retained operatorship.
Tullow and its partners are reviewing the very South American Exploration team members, Dublin encouraging results of the seismic programme ahead of selecting future drilling prospects.
In the neighbouring Block Europe 47, a two-year licence extension has been granted and a drop Exploration activity continued offshore Norway in 2015 core survey is planned to be completed in 2016.
The Spari-1 with the non-operated Bjaaland, Zumba and Salander wells.
well in offshore Block 31 was completed in August 2015 and All three wells were unsuccessful and were plugged and was subsequently plugged and abandoned.
Tullow actively managed its equity position and presence of targeted Campanian turbidite sands in the well, exposure to drilling costs in Norway and the Group reduced no significant hydrocarbon shows were encountered.
its equity in the Zumba well from 60 per cent to 40 per cent In Guyana, Tullow and its Partners continue to evaluate and paying 32.5 per cent and farmed out its remaining map prospectivity in the offshore Kanuku licence and an 18 20 per cent interest in the unsuccessful Hagar well month extension has been requested to allow a new 3D in PL650, ahead of drilling for a cash payment.
In early 2016, Tullow was awarded a In Norway, the Group made applications in the 23rd licensing 60 per cent operated interest in the Orinduik licence, a 1,801 round and was recently awarded eight licences in the 2015 square kilometre block offshore Guyana.
Both of Tullows APA licence round.
In 2016, four wells are planned to be Guyana licences sit close to Exxon Mobils Liza oil discovery drilled to test the Cara prospect adjacent to the Gjoa field, which was announced in 2015. the Rovarkula prospect adjacent to the Ivar Hansen field, In Jamaica, a 2D seismic survey is under way over the the Rome well adjacent to the Johan Sverdrup field and a 32,056 sq km Walton Morant licence and will be completed recently spudded horizontal well in the Wisting Discovery.
in the first quarter of 2016 to delineate potential plays in shallow water.
In Uruguay, good progress has been made Asia in mapping the large 3D dataset and a number of prospects The Kup-1 well in the Kalchas block in Pakistan, in which have been identified.
Tullow has a 30 per cent non-operated stake, reached total depth in December 2015.
Over 400 metres of weak gas shows were encountered in fractured sandstone reservoirs and a drill stem test programme has commenced to establish hydrocarbon presence and productivity.
In January 2016, Tullow agreed to sell a 20 per cent interest in the Bannu West licence in Pakistan to Mari Petroleum.
The deal is subject to Government approval.
BGP Challenger at quayside prior to 2D seismic survey in Jamaica www.
