On an underlying basis revenue was down by 3.3%.
However profitability improved by 2.7% as a result of a series of self-help measures designed to offset the marked impact of reduced activity in our traditionally higher-margin emerging markets.
In emerging markets such as Ukraine, Thailand and Brazil, where we have traditionally experienced good volumes and margins, we continued to suffer from political and economic instability.
We also saw reduced revenues in Australia, South Africa and Indonesia, as production declines in the auto sectors and extractive industries affected demand for foundry castings.
We achieved a solid performance in India with sales up 13%, benefiting from increased light vehicle and truck production, up 5% and 28%, respectively.
Revenue in Europe was flat, as increases in light vehicle production of 4.3% and heavy truck production of 7.6% were offset by reductions in mining, construction, railroad and windmill castings.
Central Europe and the Middle East were most impacted by the reduced activity levels.
In addition, Russias weak rouble made the import of foundry consumables cost-prohibitive.
Underlying revenue in NAFTA decreased by 9.2% due to weakness in the agriculture, construction and mining industries.
Several foundries announced closures of their US operations, moving production overseas.
Partially offsetting this was good growth in our Mexico operations.
In South America, underlying revenue dropped 13.1%, with Brazil experiencing a 18.5% drop in light vehicle production and a 40.1% reduction in heavy vehicle output, and considerably reduced mining activity.
To combat this drop off, we increased our focus in Chile and Argentina.
In Asia-Pacific, Chinese underlying revenue dropped 7.4% due to reduced heavy truck and mining activity.
Sales in Thailand were impacted by reduced light vehicle production and mining activity.
In Australia and Indonesia continued deterioration of casting demand in mining reduced Foundry sales in both countries.
As with the other businesses in Vesuvius, we initiated a global cost reduction and restructuring programme to respond to the challenging end-market conditions, and shape the division for the future.
This was undertaken predominantly in our more mature markets of Europe and NAFTA, and was aligned with our ongoing Lean initiatives, which continued to focus on manufacturing efficiency and controls and logistics.
5 52 2 Vesuvius plc Section Two Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Performance Operating Review Foundry Division continued Partners in Value Creation Our business strategy and the Vesuvius business model promote high-value generation for our customers, helping them deliver better quality castings and enhancing their processes and efficiency.
As the global foundry industry evolves, this approach enables Foseco to capitalise on our deep understanding of customers priorities for growth and process improvement, leveraging our excellence in product innovation.
Our Global Reach Our worldwide presence forms the foundation of our business model.
We embed technical experts at customer premises, which enables them to identify potential process improvements in cooperation with their customers.
We have established a network of technology centres, in which we have amassed huge expertise in developing solutions that incorporate engineered systems and high-value consumables.
These solutions are industrialised in our geographically dispersed manufacturing base, which leverages our global expertise whilst being deliberately located as close as possible to our customers.
This combination of product expertise and service delivery ensures that all our customers receive solutions that are tailor-made to their specific needs and opportunities, supplied on a reliable, just-in-time and competitively priced basis.
From the Foundry divisions perspective, this model is: Resilient to end-market cycles, due to the flexibility of our diversified manufacturing footprint and adjustable cost base Profitable, as it allows value pricing for bespoke products Growth generating, as markets can be expanded by creating additional innovative products and solutions As customer requirements increase we also see a growing demand to supply technological solutions such as those being championed by our Technical Services business.
Our Performance 53 53 Foundry R&D The investment in our new, world class research and development facility in the Netherlands has been extremely successful with close to 30 transferred experts and new hires now located there.
The facility has already played a part in the development of new products that were launched in 2015.
Strategies to Maintain Our Future Growth We commenced and or completed several key strategic actions in 2015.
Organisationally, we restructured our Global Management and Marketing & Technology teams, to support our focus on market segmentation and the investments we have made in research capability.
From a manufacturing perspective, we fully implemented our state-of-the-art sleeves and coatings plant in Changshu, China and expanded sleeve manufacturing capabilities in our India plant.
A new, more efficient sleeve production line was commissioned in Brazil.
Operationally, Vesuvius New Product Innovation NPI process was also implemented to accelerate innovation efforts and maximise efficiency of the existing resources, and we showcased our expertise at the GIFA trade show in Germany.
Business development initiatives included growth plans for NAFTA, focusing on clean steel and new market penetration, expanded metal treatment sales, and an increased focus and growth in the low and high-pressure die-casting sector for non-ferrous foundry business.
Focus on Developing Markets Potential revenue per customer and per tonne of castings produced is strongly influenced by the technical sophistication of the customer, the end-market for the casting and the processes used in its production.
These factors tend to correlate with the level of industrial development within each market, plus the corresponding capital investment in the foundry.
Therefore, we see significant growth potential in markets where industrial development continues to gather momentum, particularly certain parts of Eastern Europe and Asia.
We are expanding our network of technical sales staff and application engineers within developing markets, ensuring that customers there have local access to our high levels of expertise and technical support.
Foundry product groups Feeder sleeves Ceramic foam filters Refractory coatings for moulds and cores Aluminium Process for the Crucibles for the melting and metallurgical production holding of non-ferrous alloys control of ductile iron Our Responsibility 54 Vesuvius plc Section Three 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Responsibility Section Three Our Responsibility In this section 56 Principles 58 Safety 60 Sustainability 62 People and Community 56 Vesuvius plc Section Three Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Responsibility Principles We focus our attention on the fulfilment of our ethical responsibilities, supporting the creation of long-term value for all our stakeholders.
Vesuvius employs nearly 11,000 people, with 69 production sites in 38 countries, serving customers all over the globe.
Our employees engagement with our values and culture is not simply a matter of compliance it is vital to our success and the sustainable delivery of the Groups strategy.
A Framework for Business Integrity Vesuvius has established a simple framework for explaining and delivering the principles we consider to be fundamental to our sustained success: 1.
Vesuvius Code of Policies & Training Values Conduct Procedures Values The behaviours we champion in our employees are encapsulated in the five Vesuvius values: Creativity Cooperation Reliability Integrity Embracing Diversity Our commitment Encouraging Our solutions At the heart of our Vesuvius is a global to technology and internal and external involve us in promise lies the company built quality is the basis cooperation enables critical aspects trustworthiness of upon a true respect for our competitive us to create unique of our customers all Vesuvius for local customs advantage.
Creativity solutions with our manufacturing employees in their and experience.
allows us to develop partners.
We recognise innovative products cooperation, each commitment to Integrity, honesty and embrace and solutions and Vesuvius employee deliver consistent and transparency the potential for continuous is committed to products and service are essential in all creativity that improvements the success of gives them the our exchanges.
comes from that generate value their community level of confidence the coexistence through performance of colleagues and they require.
customers and that different cultures.
The best examples of how our employees demonstrate our values are celebrated by the Groups Living The Values Awards.
These awards nominated by fellow employees bring together employees from around the globe to an annual ceremony celebrating their outstanding individual contribution to the implementation of Vesuvius values.
Code of Conduct Maintaining a reputation for integrity in all dealings with our stakeholders is fundamental to Vesuvius business.
During the second half of 2015, we reviewed and updated our Code of Conduct building on the Code already in place ensuring that it remains relevant across all our jurisdictions and cultures and encapsulates the fundamental principles and behaviours we expect from those working for, and on behalf of, Vesuvius.
Our Responsibility Code of Conduct Code of Conduct 57 Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct Health, Anti-Bribery and Disclosure Conflicts of sets out clear and Safety and the Corruption and Investors Interest simple principles Environment Competitors Employees and Government, Trading, Human Rights Society Customers, and Local Products and Communities Services During 2016 this updated Code will be re-launched throughout the Group being published in all 29 of our major functional languages.
The updated Code will also be communicated to business partners to emphasise the standards of conduct we expect from those who work on our behalf.
The Code of Conduct confirms that the pursuit of the highest possible ethical standards is as much a part of Vesuvius culture as any other facet of our operation.
The Code of Conduct is available on the Companys website www.
Policies & Procedures The principles set out in the Code of Conduct are supported by policies to assist employees to comply with our ethical standards and the legal requirements of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business.
They also give practical guidance as to how this can be achieved.
Amongst these policies are: Speaking Up: Understanding the ethical or other concerns of our employees is a fundamental principle of good governance.
The Company continues to operate a helpline where individuals can raise concerns, anonymously if they wish, knowing that these will be investigated and acted upon.
The availability and importance of the helpline will be re-communicated across the Group in 2016.
No individual will ever be penalised or disadvantaged for reporting a legitimate concern.
Human Rights: The Group has a Human Rights policy, which reflects principles contained within the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organisations Fundamental Conventions on Labour Standards and the United Nations Global Compact.
The policy applies to all Group employees, sets out the principles for our actions and behaviour in conducting our business and provides guidance to those working for us on how we approach human rights issues.
The policy sets out the Groups commitment not to discriminate in any of our employment practices and to offer equal opportunities to all.
The Group respects the principles of freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining and opposes the use of, and will not use, forced, compulsory or child labour.
Supply Chain: Over the course of recent years Vesuvius has continued to develop its supplier assessment programme engaging with suppliers on their business practices to ensure security of supply to Vesuvius.
This process will evolve, and will be integrated with the work we are doing to address the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act in compliance with which we plan to make and publish a statement on our website later this year.
Training During the year we continued to operate our training programme on the Code of Conduct and associated anti-bribery and corruption policies.
At the year-end, more than 2,750 employees had been trained on anti-bribery and corruption issues, focusing particularly on those who work with customers, suppliers and public officials.
We continue to develop our training processes to help our staff and counterparties understand that bribery and corruption will not be tolerated in the performance of our business.
