Our Performance 43 a fundamental understanding of customer processes and delivering systems and products that are mission-critical for the demanding applications in which they are used.
Market Dynamics Customers of the Steel division are principally steel producers and manufacturers of steel production equipment.
In addition, the Advanced Refractories business supplies other high-temperature industries such as petrochemicals and cement, and therefore around 7% of revenues in the Steel division arise from non-steel-related process industries.
For our consumable products, steel production volumes are the critical driver of demand, particularly in the production of higher-quality steels where our highly technical products deliver the most value.
Steel producers are continually striving to enhance their processes reducing downtime and labour, increasing steel quality, reducing energy usage, and enhancing metallurgical accuracy parameters in which our existing consumables and solutions can be combined with our developing technical services offering to deliver value through better productivity, quality and safety.
The Global Steel Market in 2015 According to the World Steel Association, global steel production decreased by approximately 2.8% in 2015 compared with the previous year.
The overall market decline was driven mainly by decreased production in North America of 8.6%, in China of 2.3%, and in the European Union of 1.8%.
These decreases were partially offset by an increase in production of 2.6% in India.
Steel Flow Control Financial performance in 2015 Steel Flow Control reported revenues of 492.5m for 2015 representing a 9.1% decrease on the previous year.
On an underlying basis, revenue was down by 7.4% on 2014 levels.
In challenging market conditions, China, India, North Asia and South America all made a positive contribution to revenue growth whilst revenues in EMEA and NAFTA, which together account for 70% of underlying revenue, were adversely impacted by a significant decline in steel production.
In particular, production declined in the US and the UK, aggravated by the strong US dollar and sterling.
In a challenging year we maintained our investment in innovation and high technology solutions for customers.
Chris Abbott President, Flow Control 44 Vesuvius plc Section Two Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Performance Operating Review Steel Division continued Whilst continuing to deliver high-quality products to our customers, we maintained tight control of costs to ensure that our prices remained competitive.
In addition, given the adverse trading conditions, a restructuring programme was implemented, predominantly in Europe and NAFTA, to align the business with market changes, making permanent adjustments to our manufacturing and overhead structure.
We also focused upon optimising cost within our supply chain and enlarging multiple sourcing of materials, whilst maintaining consistent quality.
This remains an active ongoing initiative.
Our Lean manufacturing process model continues to help protect margins.
During the year we gave particular focus to improved process yields, energy efficiency and productivity.
We remain committed to driving efficiencies within our supply chain using our network of Lean engineers.
In addition, we also realised cost benefits from optimising our logistics particularly in Europe and NAFTA with further opportunities for improvement in 2016.
Customised innovative refractory technologies continue to drive value for our customers We believe that our programme of research and development is unparalleled within our industry, as it leverages our industry-wide experience and global reach.
Focusing research in a small number of centres of excellence allows us to concentrate knowledge for maximum effectiveness, with customisation undertaken in parallel at regional development centres established in all major markets.
This geographical coverage allows our development teams to remain close to our customers and respond to their immediate requirements.
Our Flow Control products create value for our customers by improving the efficiency of their manufacturing processes and the quality of their end products.
New products and solutions continue to underline this philosophy, notably our innovative, technical solutions around the continuous caster.
As a leader in refractory technology we made progress in 2015 with a number of innovations in line with our Group strategy including: Cold Start Technology allowing operational flexibility and cost saving for our customer Swirling Sub-entry Nozzle improving steel quality and microstructure in bloom casters Edge Port Sub-entry Nozzle improving steel quality by reducing longitudinal face cracking and slivers in slab applications Solutions through technology Our continued investment in leading-edge modelling and simulation capabilities, combined with our intimate understanding of customer processes, means we remain ideally placed to create tailor-made systems and refractories to optimise the flow of molten metal within the tundish and mould.
Our Solutions group champions Solutions Through Technology, an approach fundamental to the Flow Control business model.
Our Performance 45 Utilising state of the art modelling we determine the design and shape of the product, combining this with our deep technical expertise in material selection.
These customised refractories are then increasingly combined with instrumentation to facilitate data capture.
With the increase in size and weight of refractories, and the inherent safety risk associated with installation, our solutions also consider the handling and manipulation requirements.
We then support our solutions with superior service, from proximate manufacturing facilities and application specialists present in the majority of steel plants.
This approach, integrating systems, instrumentation, refractories and handling, delivers a value proposition to customers, which no other refractory or equipment manufacturer can match.
We continue to develop new capabilities to monitor and control the process around the mould and tundish combined with data capture technology from our Technical Services business.
A number of solutions incorporating these capabilities successfully completed alpha testing with customers and were launched in 2015, including: A new mould flux feeder, which regulates flux application to optimise the thickness in the mould and measure the quantity consumed.
This delivers significant cost savings and application consistency, and is in use in a number of our customers in NAFTA Our robotic casting technology range, which has been further extended with the introduction of six robotic installations in Korea during 2015 on the ladle operating platform, integrating oxygen lancing, temperature and gas measurement, and tundish powder feeding.
This solution delivers operational consistency, reduced operator exposure and improved safety An integrated solution in a new bloom caster in Asia, where we offer a fully integrated solution including LTC13 Ladle Gate System, IPV Purging Plug Mechanism, Stopper Rigging, C52 Tundish Gate System, XLEV Mould Level Sensor, Accuoptix Continuous Temperature Measurement, robotics and all associated refractory products.
Strategies to maintain future growth Momentum for future business growth is expected to come from continuing to market our innovative, high value, process enhancing products and services, and increasing the penetration of these products into developing markets.
In 2015 we strengthened our industrial marketing capabilities with the further development of our bespoke customer management tool, to support marketing our innovations to the wider audience of customers we believe can benefit from them.
Investment in manufacturing capability to support growth and improve responsiveness The emerging markets are large producers and consumers of steel.
To support our growth in these markets we maintain a strong regional manufacturing capability which, combined with local product development centres, places us within easy reach of our developing market customers.
In 2015 we increased our manufacturing capability in both China and India with the latest processing equipment, which supports rapid prototyping of our innovative systems and shortens the lead time to complete alpha and beta product testing.
We also further enhanced our manufacturing facility in Brazil, to improve the processing of our products, which combined with the investment in 2014, enables us to improve production flexibility and quality consistency.
4 46 6 Vesuvius plc Section Two Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Performance Operating Review Steel Division continued Advanced Refractories Financial performance in 2015 Advanced Refractories reported revenues of 378.7m for 2015, representing a reduction of 13.1% compared with 2014.
On an underlying basis the year-on-year revenue decrease was 12.7% on 2014 levels, with performance down globally, due to the challenging conditions in our mature markets.
Our trading environment remains extremely competitive with steel production decreasing in all major regions of the world.
In our mature markets, NAFTA performance was impacted by lower-cost steel imports and the declining price of oil, particularly in the sheet and tubular production segments.
Currency fluctuations impacting the Euro had a measurable effect on raw material costs.
The continued political instability in Eastern Europe and weak demand from the Middle East impacted profitability in our EMEA operations.
Low-cost steel imports also impacted South America and South East Asia, reducing expected progress on new steel capacity expansion.
In the growth markets of North Asia and India our position strengthened in line with expectations and we also benefited from the improved performance in Australia owing to the past investment in our manufacturing capabilities in Bulli.
Raw materials, restructuring, improved customer relationships Our immediate response to the challenging economic conditions was an expanded focus on optimising cost and quality within our supply chain through efficiencies in raw material sourcing and substitutions to take advantage of the commodity cycles.
Simultaneously, we took advantage of available raw material substitutions and optimised our product formulations to increase purchasing leverage and drive down our cost base.
In addition to our raw material initiatives, we implemented a detailed restructuring programme to align our assets to the level of activity in our mature markets focusing critical resources closer to our customers.
This restructuring has also provided the opportunity to reorganise in other geographies to be more effectively positioned in future growth areas.
Central to Advanced Refractories success is our sustained engagement with customers.
In the current economic background our customers rely on our solutions to help optimise their processes and we continue to benefit from our strong customer relationships in our core areas of expertise.
Under difficult trading conditions in 2015, Advanced Refractories maintained focus on safety, innovation, quality and cost efficiency to ensure that the mid and longer-term strategic vision is delivered.
Tanmay Ganguly President, Advanced Refractories O Ou ur r Per Perf fo or rm manc ance e 4 47 7 New product developments Despite our challenging end-markets, we continued our focus on product and process innovation.
In 2015 we made progress with a number of technological developments responding to diverse customer demands, such as health and safety and efficiency and productivity gains, with innovative solutions.
We developed and installed three state-of-the-art robotic tundish spray lining application systems in the NAFTA region a system which meets the latest HSE automated safety guidelines and delivers consistent quantities of our advanced refractories in the tundish.
Plans are already in place to deliver this technology to other regions within the global market.
We also developed and expanded the use of semi-automatic dry vibratable installation equipment which allows for rapid relining of multiple tundishes and also complies with new safety requirements.
We continued our focus on the growing aluminium melting and holding furnace segment, with the supply of Alugard pump-cast and precast solutions, which are able to extend furnace life by reducing refractory wear owing to improved abrasion and corrosion resistance.
By reducing the need for mid-campaign repairs we have been able to deliver to our customer a significant improvement in furnace productivity.
We have developed two improved products for reheat furnaces capitalising on our existing offering, enhancing throughput and temperature efficiency.
By combining state-of-the-art equipment with a novel approach to the application process and improved insulation characteristics, it has been possible to reduce the energy burden of the furnace and significantly reduce the carbon footprint of our customers.
An added benefit is the exclusion of potentially environmentally hazardous fibre commonly used in these applications.
Finally, our trials of low carbon brick and low carbon hydrogen tundish lining systems together with inert tundish barrier products are showing that these solutions enhance the thermal behaviour of the refractory, reduce the potential for carbon and hydrogen pick-up in the molten metal, and improve overall refractory life all of which positively impact steel quality.
Operational improvements We continue to expand our focus on world class safety practices and our continuing efforts in the future will focus on delivering improvements within our customer-facing service and support teams.
Our ability to service and capture market share in the ironmaking segment were enhanced by expanded taphole clay manufacturing capabilities in NAFTA and India.
In 2015 Advanced Refractories continued the implementation of advanced quality planning techniques in our production facilities as part of the wider Lean initiative.
The positive effects of these process changes continue to enhance product consistency and reliability with the added benefit of improving margins.
Trademark s of the Vesuvius Group registered in certain countries 48 48 Vesuvius plc Section Two Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Performance Operating Review Steel Division continued Organisational improvements We constantly re-orient our organisational capabilities to operate efficiently within the existing market climate.
In particular, 2015 saw us undertake a global restructuring of our worldwide research and development teams delivering improved coordination of marketing and technology, sales and manufacturing.
The Groups New Product Introduction process has increased focus on delivering R&D projects successfully through to industrialisation, and we have re-focused and targeted our sales and marketing organisation to deliver improved customer coverage.
The way forward restore profitability and sustain growth by leveraging technology and efficiency While the market continues to be soft we will continue to drive initiatives that improve performance without losing sight of our mid to long-term strategic initiatives and our efforts on safety, quality, Lean and innovation.
Our strategic direction will continue to focus on close customer-facing interaction to drive innovative solutions with optimised supply chain consistency and cost to develop the necessary sustainable differentiation.
Technical Services Financial performance in 2015 In its first year of operation, the Technical Services business generated sales of 26.5m.
The headwinds experienced in the steel industry in 2015 had a mixed effect on results, with some customers curtailing production to adapt their output to softening end-market demand and other key customers keen to test solutions from this newly created business unit in order to improve their product quality and productivity.
Creating value through specialised technical services The creation of Technical Services as a stand-alone business within our Steel Division, brings together existing elements of our Steel Flow Control and Foundry businesses with newly acquired technologies and companies.
This responds directly to Vesuvius stated strategy of reinforcing our technology leadership by focusing investment in solutions that will enable further control and monitoring of our customers production processes.
Our Technical Services capabilities have been significantly enhanced by the acquisitions in recent years of AVEMIS, ECIL Met Tec and Process Metrix.
In 2015, we purchased Sidermes, a leading Italian-based supplier of probes and systems which measure critical elements like temperature, oxygen and hydrogen in the steel and foundry processes.
The combination of these businesses under a new management During our first year, our new Technical Services business has seen significant progress with new technologies reaching the industrial stage, new R&D projects initiated, and a warm welcome from customers.
Luis Reyes President, Technical Services O Ou ur r Per Perf fo or rm manc ance e 49 49 structure and their integration within the Vesuvius global organisation is progressing well and clearly demonstrates the opportunities that can be captured through the acquisition of complementary businesses.
2015 saw the installation at a customer site of a differentiated solution developed by Vesuvius which underlines our strategic rationale for developing the Technical Services business.
The solution provided incorporates data acquisition, process monitoring and control for gas and temperature, robotics, and associated refractories.
This tailor-made solution was enabled by combining the existing refractory knowledge and process expertise of Vesuvius with the capabilities of several of our Technical Services businesses.
The focus of R&D within Technical Services remains a key differentiator of this business, and is primarily aimed at the development of data collection, combined with interpretation technologies in a widening number of areas.
We will continue to enrich our Technical Services offering in the medium-term, by providing our most advanced customers in the metal casting field with decision-critical, process-enhancing information and analysis to enable them to improve their operations, both through immediate response to process parameters and from the learning available from the analysis and interpretation of longer-term, consistent data sets.
Strategies to promote future growth We initiated a series of key strategic actions in 2015.
Critically, we consolidated our recent acquisitions into the new Technical Services business unit, connecting these businesses to the broader Vesuvius and Foseco networks.
We also launched a number of new research and development projects, and saw the introduction of two new systems that had been under development within the Vesuvius business our new Accuoptix Continuous Temperature System, which measures temperature using an optical system capable of delivering molten steel temperature in real time, and the XMAT mould audit unit concept, more details of which are set out in the case study on page 17.
A focus on market development Going forward, we have identified a number of opportunities within our core businesses which will expand the existing footprint of our newly acquired companies.
We also expect our innovative product development programme to deliver opportunities, previously unavailable to Vesuvius, in the near term.
Main Technical Services product groups Disposable sensors for: Continuous sensors Permanent sensors for: Temperature Accumetrix continuous Slag detection temperature system Dissolved gasses Mould level Accuoptix optical Mould audit temperature system Ladle refractory wear Trademark s of the Vesuvius Group registered in certain countries 50 50 Vesuvius plc Section Two Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Performance Operating Review Foundry Division The Foundry Division Our Foundry division trades under the Foseco brand, and generates about 30% of total Group revenue.
Foseco is a world-renowned name that has become a by-word for reliability, technology and service in the supply of consumable products and associated services to the foundry industry.
Vesuvius in the Foundry Industry The vehicle sector, comprising light vehicles passenger cars and light trucks and heavy trucks generates approximately 40% of worldwide castings, and a similar percentage of the revenue for the Foundry division.
Other end-markets for foundry castings include machinery for the agriculture, construction and mining industries, power generation equipment, railroad and general engineering sectors.
Our customers include the worlds major automotive OEMs, truck producers and equipment manufacturers.
Whilst Foseco products typically represent less than 5% of a foundrys production cost, they contribute significantly to improving product quality and manufacturing efficiency, while reducing the environmental impact of the casting process.
Combined with our computer modelling, flow simulation and methoding capabilities, significant process efficiencies can be generated by Foseco.
The Global Foundry Industry in 2015 The worldwide foundry market continued to be affected by difficulties within the agriculture, construction and mining industries, resulting from the general decline in commodity and precious metal prices.
We saw reduced investment worldwide with the largest impacts in the US, China, Brazil, Indonesia and Australia, and delays to new projects resulting in reduced demand for foundry castings for the extractive industries as well as those used for related equipment and vehicles.
Light vehicle i. e. passenger cars and light trucks production globally was up year-on-year 1.5% in 2015, but global heavy truck output declined 6.2%.
Light vehicle production increases in India 4.8%, China 4.2% and NAFTA 3.4% were partially offset by declines in South America -18.5% and Asia -3.3%.
Significant heavy truck output decreases in South America -40.1% and China -28.2% were partially offset by increases in NAFTA 8.3% and Europe 7.6%.
In a year of weak end-markets, we continued our strategic focus on marketing and technology, investment in R&D, development of high-quality production facilities and very strict cost control.
