WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report REVIEW OF OPERATIONS: TRAVEL PERFORMANCE 1 Sales profit 521m 80m 2014: 477m 2014: 73m Total sales Like-for-like 10% sales 9% 4% PERFORMANCE REVIEW 2014 15 Space in Travel is expensive and complex to manage.
It varies substantially by channel, location and within location.
Active space Travel delivered another strong performance during the year with 1 management and investment in our stores enables us to evolve good cash generation.
Travels trading profit increased by ten per the offer in each channel to best meet the changing needs of our cent to 80m 2014: 73m.
Total revenue in Travel was up nine per customers and landlords.
We have a very good understanding of cent with like-for-like sales up four per cent.
the space and category elasticities for every metre of display space We saw a good sales performance across all our channels driven in every store and how they are changing over time.
This active by investment in our growth initiatives and improved passenger space management enables us to improve our customer offer numbers.
In air, total sales were up seven per cent with like-forbytailoring our ranges in each specic location.
like sales up six per cent: in rail, total sales were up three per cent During the year we made further investments in our Travel stores, with like-for-like sales also up three per cent: and in hospitals, including store design: extending opening hours: improving layouts total sales were up 19 per cent with like-for-like sales up six per and introducing clearer product zoning, particularly in our larger cent.
Total sales in hospitals were supported by the opening of nine air, rail and hospital stores.
In air, for example, we have made new stores, including four M&S Simply Food stores.
The growth improvements to store layouts and design by creating product in like-for-like sales in hospitals reects our active space zones and improving navigation, while also allocating additional management and the introduction of new ranges.
Gross margin space to growth areas such as souvenirs, travel accessories and increased by 50 bps during the year, driven by active category mix digital accessories.
During the second half of the year, a number of management.
We see further opportunities for growth in our UK these initiatives were rolled out to our smaller stores.
In addition, and international channels through opening new space, growing we have focused on staff training and customer service in all passenger numbers and our key growth initiatives.
These improvements meant we were well positioned for peak summer trading and helped drive the strong sales performance over the summer months.
WE SEE FURTHER OPPORTUNITIES FOR GROWTH IN OUR UK AND INTERNATIONAL CHANNELS THROUGH OPENING NEW SPACE, GROWING PASSENGER NUMBERS AND OUR KEY GROWTH INITIATIVES.
1 Travel trading profit is stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, interest and taxation.
See Notes to the accounts Note 2, Segmental analysis of results on page 73.
indd 10 26 11 2015 15:10 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 We have built a successful Travel business in the UK based on the different operating models in each channel, our active space management and our focus on providing a compelling offer to customers and landlords.
We have been successful in exporting this overseas where the WHSmith brand has been well received and we have consistently demonstrated we can deliver improved performance and add value.
Where we have replaced existing operators our sales per passenger have outperformed the previous incumbents by up to 25 per cent.
For example, in Sydney International Airport, we saw an immediate increase in sales per passenger versus the previous operator of approximately 10 per cent following the rebrand and reconguration to WHSmith.
WHERE WE HAVE REPLACED EXISTING OPERATORS OUR SALES PER PASSENGER HAVE OUTPERFORMED THE PREVIOUS INCUMBENTS BY UP TO 25 PER CENT.
During the year we won 30 new units, including units at Sydney A key initiative across all our channels is our Food to Go range International Airport, Brisbane Airport and a number of franchise which has been extended to include additional healthy eating stores in the Middle East.
In addition, we made a small acquisition options and has been very popular with customers.
We have seen in Australia of a news, books and convenience retailer, Supanews, a high penetration of the meal deal promotion.
During the second whose main asset is a large store at Brisbane railway station.
half we also extended our digital and headphone ranges into a In total, excluding the Australian franchisees, we have 163 stores number of rail stores.
open across four channels: air, rail, hospitals and malls, of which 39 per cent are directly run, 53 per cent franchised and the remainder joint venture.
We are now present in 20 countries and 28 airports outside of the WE CONTINUE TO IDENTIFY OPPORTUNITIES UK.
However, our share of the news, books and convenience travel TO OPEN NEW SPACE IN TRAVEL.
market is still very small.
We continue to see opportunities to grow using our three operating models of directly-run, joint venture We continue to identify opportunities to open new space in Travel.
In the year, we opened 18 new units in the UK including two in air, seven in rail and nine in hospitals.
In hospitals, we offer our As at 31 August 2015, the Travel business operated from 736 units operating expertise to partners and now operate 10 M&S Simply 2014: 712 units, including motorway service area franchise units.
Looking forward, we anticipate opening around 20 28 UK units were closed in the year, primarily due to landlord stores each year over the following three years, of which around redevelopment and we renewed 21 contracts and completed 10each year will be in hospitals.
Our international business is still relatively small but is profitable and growing rapidly.
Total sales for the year were 57m, up 33 per cent versus the previous year and up four per cent on a like-forlike basis.
profit for the year was 5m, an increase of 2m on the previous year.
indd 11 26 11 2015 15:10 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report REVIEW OF OPERATIONS: HIGH STREET PERFORMANCE 2 Sales profit 657m 59m 2014: 684m 2014: 58m Total sales Like-for-like 2% sales 4 % 3 % 1 PERFORMANCE REVIEW 2014 15 During the year, space changes have included extending our Stationery category, by giving more and better located space in High Street delivered a good performance with an increase 2 our larger stores to new Stationery ranges and installing a further in trading profit to 59m 2014: 58m, up two per cent on five Post Ofces giving us a total of 108 Post Ofces in our stores.
Our strategy of actively managing our space to Going forward, we will continue to manage space in this way.
optimise our core categories, gross margin growth and tight cost control continues to deliver sustainable profit growth and good We saw a good performance in Stationery in the year.
Strong promotional offers: our in-house design capabilities for product and packaging: the quality, breadth and depth of our High Street sales were down four per cent in total and down three ranges: the ability to source competitively through our Far East per cent on a like-for-like basis, reecting our profit focused sourcing ofce, and our scale enable us to differentiate ourselves strategy, the evolving nature of some of our markets and better in this category.
During the year Stationery has continued to benefit publishing in the year.
Gross margin improved by around 140 bps, from additional space with range development in key areas such through rebalancing the mix of our business to focus on higher as pens and fashion stationery.
As a result of our new ranges, we margin categories such as Stationery, better buying terms and saw a strong performance over the key back to school period.
improved sourcing and markdown management.
Our new Brights initiative, which brings together new product in new xturing at the front of store has been very popular with our customers and has now been rolled out to 75 of our largest 100 High Street stores.
OPTIMAL USE OF SPACE IS A FUNDAMENTAL PART OF THE STRATEGY FOR HIGH STREET.
Optimal use of space is a fundamental part of the strategy for High Street.
We consider space as a strategic asset and we work our space to maximise profitability in the current year in ways that are sustainable for future years.
We have extensive and detailed space and range elasticity data for every store, built up over many years and we work our space to maximise the return on every metre of display space in every store through improving margins, reducing costs and driving third party concession income opportunities.
1 Schools literacy project with National Literary Trust.
With thanks to British Land and the National Literacy Trust.
2 High Street trading profit is stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, interest and taxation.
See Notes to the accounts Note2, Segmental analysis of results on page 73.
indd 12 26 11 2015 15:10 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 In Books, the market continues to evolve with the quality of publishing still the biggest driver of market performance.
Kids book sales remain the most resilient category and our space allocation reects market dynamics.
Fiction has benefitted from better publishing versus last year, with strong titles such as EL James Grey and Harper Lees Go Set a Watchman.
Colour therapy colouring for adults has driven our Non-Fiction performance, particularly in the second half, with illustrators such as Millie Marotta and Johanna Basford performing well.
Like-for-like sales in physical books were down two per cent for the year with the second half at to last year.
Our approach in Books is to build on areas of relative strength and drive the overall net profitability of the category.
An example of this is the recent improvements to our books operating model which helps us to deliver margin improvements and efficiency savings.
During the year we renewed our contract for the Richard and Judy Book Club, the UKs biggest Book Club.
In eBooks, market growth of eBook content has slowed as eBook consumption continues to migrate to apps on tablets rather than dedicated eReading devices.
The latest data in both the US and UK suggests eBook share of the total book market is static or declining WE HAVE MADE FURTHER PROGRESS WITH a little.
Whilst there is no ofcial data, UK publisher estimates OUR FRANCHISE INITIATIVE UNDER THE suggest the eBook market share of the total book market is around 15 per cent.
In News and Impulse the newspaper and magazine market continues to be challenging but we held our market share with a We have made further progress with our franchise initiative under number of successful promotions across key titles.
We continue to the brand WHSmith LOCAL.
We now have a total of 40 stores develop the bookazine category which helps improve our margins converted to WHSmith LOCAL and a further 40 contracts signed.
and our range now includes over 400 titles, including a number of There are a large number of small independent newsagents and, very successful colour therapy titles.
whilst the signing up process is slow, we believe this initiative has long-term potential to grow further.
Cost savings remain a core part of our strategy and we continue to focus on all areas of cost in the business.
We have made Our online personalised greetings card and gifting website, good progress again this year, delivering cost savings of 11m.
com, continued its good performance, particularly These came from right across the business, including rent over the key events in the year.
As a consequence, we saw savings at lease renewal, the store operating model, renegotiated good profit growth versus last year.
We continue to invest in marketing contracts and productivity improvements in our the customer experience and apps and saw increased levels of distribution centres.
We have identied an additional 10m of new trafc from mobile devices.
Looking forward we continue to see cost savings, taking the target to 20m over the next three years.
investment opportunities in the website, apps, marketing and Of these, 11m are planned for 2015 16. customer offer to grow this business further.
During the year we launched funkyparty.
com, a new website with over 20,000 products ranging from themed tableware, balloons and decorations to fancy dress and accessories.
This is the first extension of the funkypigeon.
WE HAVE IDENTIFIED AN ADDITIONAL 10M We opened 20 Cardmarket stores in the first quarter of the financial OF NEW COST SAVINGS, TAKING THE TARGET year.
Sales are still building and performance continues to vary by store.
We plan to open an additional 10 trial stores before TO 20M OVER THE NEXT THREE YEARS.
Christmas 2015 to test the concept further and we aim to make a decision on whether there is rollout potential by spring 2016.
3 The High Street business now operates from 615 stores, which occupy 2.89m square feet 2014: 2.94m square feet.
Ten stores were closed in the year.
3 Including branches in Guernsey and Isle of Man.
