67 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Operating review Worldpay operates in three principal Worldpay Edge is a deep data analytics GLOBAL ECOM markets Global eCom, the UK and the service that allows customers to better US.
These markets are described on page understand shopper behaviour and 43 of the Our strategy section of the performance.
Our Global eCom division focuses on large, internet-led multinationals that We expanded the reach of our payments The financial information presented and operate in fast-growing markets and have network into more markets, allowing more discussed in this review is based on complex payment needs.
We provide a of our customers the ability to expand underlying financial performance and wide range of payment services, both globally, with licences in Canada and includes pro forma prior year comparatives.
online and by mobile, to accept, validate Japan.
We were one of the first payment and settle payments in 126 currencies companies to support Apples launch of across 146 countries, using any one of over Apple Pay in the UK and Europe, and we 300 payment methods.
Our customers have integrated our payments platform to also use our payments technology to new local payment methods, for example maximise the rate at which payments are Billdesk used in India and TenPay used in approved, manage the risk of fraud, and China.
optimise their costs of operating globally.
Performance review We focus on five priority verticals: Digital Our Global eCom division had another Content, Global Retail, Airlines, Regulated strong year of growth in 2015 with Gambling and Travel.
Through this focus, transactions up 31% to 3.8 billion, driven by we build our knowledge and expertise of increased volumes across a range of our customers businesses and the products and verticals.
Average specific needs of their own industry as it transaction values fell 12% year-on-year, relates to payments.
however, as a significant proportion of the volume growth came from verticals where In 2015, we enhanced the value of what we high volume, low value transactions offer to our customers through a series of dominate, such as Digital Content and improvements to our products and services.
We launched a set of upgrades to our core Net revenue increased by 45.7m, or 17%, payment capabilities, including Hosted to 317.7m in the year ended 31 December Payment Pages, a tokenisation service 2015 2014: 272.0m, with net acquiring 1 and Worldpay Edge.
Hosted Payment income, treasury management and 2 Pages allow a secure and seamless foreign exchange services and gateway transition upon checkout from a income accounting for the majority of the customers shopping website to our own increase.
Our tokenisation service replaces the shoppers card details with a single-use card number that cannot be used for any future payments and is therefore useless to a potential hacker.
Pro forma Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December Year-on-year 2015 2014 change Net revenue m 317.7 272.0 17% Underlying EBITDA m 184.2 161.5 14% Total transactions bn 3.8 2.9 31% Total transaction value bn 99.3 85.5 16% Average transaction value 25.9 29.3 12 % Net revenue transaction value % 0.32% 0.32% 1 Net acquiring income is defined as transaction service charges less interchange and scheme fees.
Transaction service charges are payable for services provided to process transactions between the customer and an acquiring bank, which is a bank that accepts card payments from the card-issuing banks.
2 Income from treasury management and foreign exchange services is generated on settling foreign currency transactions on behalf of customers.
68 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Operating review continued Net acquiring income grew by 20% in 2015 We also made significant progress with WPUK as a result of new business wins and Multi-Service Penetration.
The growth of existing customers, particularly penetration of ecommerce CNP products in Digital Content, Travel and Global Retail.
amongst new merchants grew by 12% in Scheme fees increased significantly WPUK provides in-store, phone, online and the last 12 months, driven by a clear focus during the period, largely as a result of mobile payment acceptance solutions for across our marketing and sales teams.
volume growth and country mix.
In approximately 300,000 UK and IrelandDuring Q4, we implemented a salesaddition, a number of new rules and fees based customers, from SMEs to large through-service pilot to promote crosswere implemented by the schemes in the corporates including Tesco, Asda and Next.
sales activities within the customer year which increased fees further.
Following the success of this majority of these increases were charged To strengthen Worldpays leadership in the pilot, we plan to roll out the initiative to full on to customers.
UK, our strategy is to evolve from simple capacity during 2016.
Finally, in Q4, we payment processing to become an launched Worldpay Business Finance in Revenue from treasury management and added-value payment services and partnership with Liberis to provide UK foreign exchange services grew by 22% solutions partner for our merchants, SMEs with access to flexible financing via year-on-year as a result of increased across all of our market segments SME, a business cash advance.
To date over volumes in Airlines, Travel and Digital Small Corporate and Large Corporate.
The 2m of funding has been provided to our Content.
Gateway income was also up strategy has three strands, with core merchants by Liberis, and we expect to 26%, driven by volume increases in Global growth being driven by a focus on Brilliant continue to build on this progress in 2016.
Retail and Travel and the contribution Basics and Multi-Service Penetration, from Cobre Bem, our provider of gateway while we also seek new growth Transformational products and services are service solutions in Latin America.
opportunities from transformational the drivers for both new revenue growth and products and services.
In May Global eComs underlying net revenue 2015, we launched My Business Dashboard, as a percentage of total transaction value The success of Brilliant Basics can be our online reporting portal for SME remained strong at 0.32% for the year seen in the number of new merchants customers, and it had over 14,000 active ended 31 December 2015, in line with the on-boarded through our core channels, users by the end of the year.
which increased significantly during the Hub, a tablet-based smart point-of-sale second half of 2015.
We achieved this solution, was launched in pilot with a small Underlying EBITDA increased by 22.7m, through a focus on increasing lead number of merchants in Q4.
We have or 14%, to 184.2m in the year ended generation, improving sales conversion, received extremely positive feedback on 31 December 2015 2014: 161.5m.
This and working to improve the overall both products and they will be scaled up increase was driven principally by the end-to-end efficiency of our sales model, significantly in 2016.
Worldpay Total and growth in net revenue noted above but including the final stages of the Cardsave Worldpay Total Mobile, our omni-channel was offset, in part, by 22.9m higher integration.
Further improvements in our solutions for corporate customers, operating costs year-on-year.
This increase merchant retention operations, combined continued to register strong sales in the in operating costs partly reflects the with a focus on improving customer Large Corporate sector.
These products growth in revenue, but also the investments experience by addressing the common have been instrumental in winning new we have made in people and capability, in causes of complaints, also led to a Corporate business against our key both 2014 and 2015, to develop the reduction in overall churn rates in the competitors, as well as cross-selling new organisation and deliver further sales second half of the year.
services to existing Corporate customers.
In addition, bad debts increased compared to the prior year.
Pro forma Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December Year-on-year 2015 2014 change Net revenue m 405.2 366.0 11% Underlying EBITDA m 179.2 156.1 15% Total transactions bn 5.4 5.0 8% Total transaction value bn 202.8 196.6 3% Average transaction value 37.5 39.2 4 % Net revenue transaction value % 0.20% 0.19% 69 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Performance review market.
In 2015, we delivered strong WPUS Our WPUK division grew strongly in 2015 performance in terms of new sales and with transactions up 8% to 5.4 billion, customer retention.
We also continued our driven by new customer wins in both the transformational journey to become Corporate and SME sectors and WPUS provides in-store, online and mobile a leading payment processing partner to continuing growth in the use of cards as a payment acceptance solutions for the thousands of software, hardware and payment mechanism.
Average transaction US-based customers, with a focus on technology providers that power the values fell 4% year-on-year, however, developing omni-channel and integrated point-of-sale environment for the more reflecting high street price competition, payment solutions for its approximately than seven million small and medium-sized particularly in the supermarket sector 109,000 SME customers, and verticalbusinesses across the country.
Customer where Worldpay has a high market share, specific solutions for its approximately acquisition in the Small Business Unit is and changing consumer behaviour as the 13,000 enterprise customers in the delivered through a range of both direct use of contactless increases.
Grocery, Petroleum, Restaurant and Retail and indirect partner channels.
In addition, we provide ATM Net revenue increased by 39.2m, or 11%, services to approximately 100 In order to accelerate our evolution to be to 405.2m in the year ended 31 December organisations across the United States.
the payments partner of choice, we 2015 2014: 366.0m, with net acquiring completed our integration of the income accounting for the majority of the Our Corporate Business Unit, focused on SecureNet business and have delivered increase.
Net acquiring income grew by larger clients operating nationally, continued the forecast operational efficiencies in line 18% reflecting the impact of higher to grow strongly in 2015.
Our strategy to with our expectations.
We have now built a transaction volumes and effective differentiate in this segment using a technical connection between the management of pricing on new business service-based approach to different vertical SecureNet platform and the WPUS Lynk and renewals, as well as a net positive industries especially Petroleum, Quick platform that will allow clients to have impact of lower interchange costs on the Serve Restaurants and Grocery Retail, access to the ease of technical integration acquiring margin which funded the where customer needs and requirements offered through SecureNet, as well as to enhancement of our propositions for are often unique is being validated with the rich payment processing features that customers.
significant growth in locations, transactions we already possess.
Furthermore, our competitive, 1 Ancillary income grew by 9% year-on-year value-based and high touch approach to The US marketplace is moving to the EMV as a result of increases in authorisation, clients is driving long-term client retention payment standard, requiring merchants to gateway and other fees.
During 2015, we added to upgrade their point-of-sale systems to our vertical specialisms by extending our accept EMV chip-based cards.
Over the WPUKs net revenue as a percentage of total reach in the growing and attractive official past year, WPUS invested heavily in EMV, transaction value increased slightly to 0.20% payments sector that comprises federal, middleware and unattended testing tools, for the year ended 31 December 2015 from state and local government payments as simplifying the certification process, as well 0.19% in the prior year, reflecting a change in well as utility payments.
as creating a repeatable, scalable solution mix to more credit card transactions and for merchants and partners.
We will commercial pricing decisions.
WPUS Small Business Unit is focused continue to invest further in EMV in 2016. on delivering powerful but affordable Underlying EBITDA increased by 23.1m, payment solutions to SMEs across the or 15%, to 179.2m in the year ended Unites States through multiple routes to 31 December 2015 2014: 156.1m.
This improvement was driven by the growth in net revenue noted above and strong cost control, underpinned by a drive towards greater efficiency.
Operating costs increased in the year by 4.7m, or 3%, reflecting the higher volumes as well as investment to drive future growth.
The cost growth was at a significantly lower rate than the net revenue growth, leading to an overall improvement in profit margin.
1 Ancillary income includes fees charged per transaction for providing gateway services, fraud and risk management services, float income, and charges levied for the acceptance of alternative payments.
Gateway services work in the same manner as transaction processing services, but are provided for online transactions only.
70 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Operating review continued We also made significant progress in Underlying EBITDA decreased by 13.1m, certifying integrated software vendors or 17%, to 62.3m in the year ended ISVs, partners, and merchants.
the year, we signed over 80 partners, Excluding the impact of the SecureNet including partners providing services now acquisition and the foreign currency integrated into our SME payment translation impact, underlying EBITDA solutions, together with partners providing decreased by 14.4m, or 17%.
Operating referrals and other sources of new costs excluding SecureNet and foreign customer income streams.
currency translation increased by 16.5m, reflecting increased costs payable to In addition to payment processing, we third-party sales agents and additional continued to offer value added services, investment in people, security and office such as third-party working capital costs to deliver the strategy.
In addition, solutions delivered through the payment bad debt provisions increased year-onprocessing and settlement cycle, which year by 3.8m.
provide financing options outside of traditional bank loans to help SMEs SecureNet, which was purchased in manage and grow their business.
December 2014, contributed 9.7m to net revenue in the year 2014: 0.3m and Performance review made a loss of 4.4m 2014: loss of 0.2m.
Our WPUS division had a solid year of Net revenue was significantly lower than growth in 2015 with transactions up 9% to expected due to slower than expected 3.8 billion, driven by increased volumes sign-up of new partners.
To offset this across all business segments as well as shortfall, however, certain synergies were the acquisition of SecureNet.
Average realised earlier than anticipated, primarily transaction values decreased by 2% through a workforce reduction.
As a result, year-on-year, reflecting developments in overall performance was in line with our the Petroleum vertical where a decline in expectations.
wholesale oil prices resulted in lower prices to consumers at the pump.
The Directors believe strongly that we have the right strategy and people in place Net revenue increased by 33.4m, or 15%, to deliver sustainable growth in the future to 258.8m in the year ended 31 December but it will take longer than previously 2015 2014: 225.4m.
Excluding the impact anticipated to achieve and we will incur of the SecureNet acquisition in December additional costs as a result.
2014 and the foreign currency translation impact, net revenue increased by 7.1m, or 3%.
This increase was driven principally by growth in acquiring income, reflecting the increase in transaction volumes.
Net revenue as a percentage of total transaction value remained in line with the prior year at 0.26%.
Pro forma Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December Year-on-year 2015 2014 change Net revenue m 258.8 225.4 15% Underlying EBITDA m 62.3 75.4 17 % Total transactions bn 3.8 3.5 9% Total transaction value $bn 152.6 143.9 6% Average transaction value $ 39.7 40.7 2 % Net revenue transaction value % 0.26% 0.26%
