Operational review: Another active and positive year The key positive contributors to the increase in fair value in 2015 were Oxford Nanopore Technologies Limited, Diurnal Group plc, Avacta Group plc, Actual Experience plc, First Light Fusion Limited and Ultrahaptics Limited.
Alan Aubrey Chief Executive Officer 2015 was another extremely active and positive Significant portfolio company year with the portfolio recording some impressive transactions and developments achievements.
Over the course of the year, our The first half of the year saw significant fundraisings portfolio companies raised approximately 300m from portfolio companies in our Healthcare, 2014: approximately 200m.
Technology and Biotech sectors with Tissue Regenix The total fair value of the Groups portfolio, which Group plc, Actual Experience plc and Avacta Group now comprises holdings in 99 companies, increased plc raising a combined total of approximately by more than 50% in 2015 to 552.2m 2014: 58m before expenses.
In addition, in the Biotech 349.9m, representing a net unrealised fair value sector, Modern Biosciences plc MBS, the Groups increase, excluding net investment, of more than private drug-discovery subsidiary, achieved three 86m during the year 2014: 21m.
development-related milestones in its agreement with Janssen Biotech, Inc. triggering gross payments of The key positive contributors to the increase in fair 8m.
The goal of the collaboration is to develop new value in 2015 were Oxford Nanopore Technologies drugs for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and Limited 50.4m, Diurnal Group plc 15.7m, Avacta the agreement could be worth up to a total of 176m Group plc 9.7m, Actual Experience plc 8.2m, in upfront and milestone payments in addition to First Light Fusion Limited 6.7m and Ultrahaptics future royalties.
In the second half of the year, Oxford Nanopore These gains were partially offset by some reductions Technologies Limited completed a 70m financing in fair value, most notably as a result of reductions in round while shares in Diurnal Group plc were the share prices of some of our AIM-quoted portfolio admitted to AIM in December, with the company companies including Tissue Regenix Group plc raising 30m before expenses.
A further three of 5.0m, Ceres Power Holdings plc 4.2m, Seren our quoted companies Xeros Technology Group Photonics Limited 2.2m and Modern Water plc plc, hVIVO plc and Applied Graphene Materials 2.0m.
plc also announced significant fundraisings, During 2015, the Group provided 75.9m of totalling approximately 70m.
Two of the Groups incubation, seed and development capital to 53 unquoted companies, First Light Fusion Limited and portfolio companies 2014: 46.8m capital: 51 Ultrahaptics Limited, announced financings of 23m companies and a further 40m strategic investment and 10m respectively.
into Oxford Sciences Innovation plc.
Further detailed analysis and information on the portfolio is provided in the portfolio review on pages 18 to 29.
16 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:01 PM Strategic Report Our Performance The US Outlook In the US, the Group has now moved beyond the While the major macroeconomic trends continue initial pilot phase agreements with its university to cast significant uncertainty over the pace of the partners and is focused on building on the positive global economic recovery, which is likely to impact progress achieved to date.
Our US team, which the general funding environment, the major global comprised five FTEs at year end, is developing an economies continue to increase expenditure on exciting portfolio of companies.
research and development to fuel growth.
The Group took a significant minority stake in IP Group remains well-positioned to respond to Uniformity Labs, Inc. Princeton University, which both this challenge and opportunity with a strong is developing equipment, materials and software for cash position and a healthy pipeline of opportunities 3D printing, and provided debt financing to AptaCo, across all of our sectors.
Against this backdrop, we Inc. Columbia University, which is developing are cautiously optimistic about the prospects for the an aptamer-based bio-sensing platform that is current year and beyond as we continue to grow and capable of providing rapid and accurate diagnostic internationalise the Group.
information essential to the management of a wide range of conditions.
Seed financing was also provided to Exyn Technologies Inc. the Groups first spin-out company from the University of Pennsylvania, which has developed software to control autonomous micro unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs and enable coordination in swarms of flying vehicles.
Since yearend we have completed incubation financings for two further spin-out companies from the University of Pennsylvania: Prendo Systems, Inc. that is developing universal low-cost robotic manipulators, and Chip Diagnostics, Inc. that is developing digital assays in which ultra-sensitive molecular measurements are made by performing millions of parallel experiments.
The Group has also provided incubation funding to pursue two opportunities from our Federal Labs initiative through FedImpact LLC.
IP Group Inc. our US subsidiary, hosted a wellattended investor conference in New York in the Autumn, showcasing both some of our US and UK portfolio companies, including a demonstration of the internal navigation and mapping capabilities that can be achieved using Exyns software to control autonomous UAVs.
