STRATEGIC REPORT REVIEW OF OPERATIONS RISK & INSURANCE Our Risk & Insurance business comprises RISK & INSURANCE our global Specialty insurance and reinsurance Revenue Underlying Trading Profit broking operations and our wholesale insurance 2015 2015 broking business.
866.6m 160.9m Our specialist teams focus on those sectors 6% 4% where we have a distinctive level of knowledge 2014: 820.5m 2014: 154.3m and expertise.
Working in partnership with clients to manage the key risks they face, we act as their Trading Margin Employees 2015 2015 intermediary with insurers and reinsurers as well 19% 5,602 as providing related risk management, analytical, 2014: 19% 2014: 5,475 advisory and other services.
CONTRIBUTION TO GROUP REVENUE 2015 75% OUR GLOBAL RISK & INSURANCE BUSINESSES PROVIDE SERVICES INCLUDING: Our Businesses: ADVICE AND CONSULTANCY SPECIALIST INSURANCE JLT Specialty p29 JLT USA p31 PRODUCTS Advising our clients on their insurance JLT Re p29 JLT Insurance Services p31 and reinsurance requirements, Providing our clients with access JLT Australia & NZ p30 JLT Canada p31 ensuring that they understand the to certain exclusive insurance JLT Asia p30 JLT Europe, Middle East & Africa p31 likelihood and potential severity of the facilities, binders and other products, JLT Latin America p30 JLT Insurance Management p31 risks they face, the options available without taking any balance sheet to mitigate these risks and the underwriting risk.
Excludes employees in shared service operations potential cost of doing so.
OTHER SERVICES BROKERAGE AND Providing a range of related services PLACEMENT to our clients and insurance market Acting on our clients behalf, using counterparties in areas such as our specialist knowledge to negotiate captive management, claims and place insurance cover with management and administration, insurers and reinsurers all over and capital raising and corporate the world.
28 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS JLT SPECIALTY JLT RE 2015 2014 % change 2015 2014 % change Total revenue 311.2m 289.5m 7% Total revenue 173.6m 165.5m 5% Underlying trading profit 68.3m 57.2m 19% Underlying trading profit 32.4m 26.2m 24% Trading margin 22% 20% Trading margin 19% 16% JLT Specialty, which includes our wholesale operations, JLT Re is one of the worlds largest reinsurance brokers, provides insurance broking, risk management and claims with approximately 600 professionals across 25 locations in services for clients across a wide range of business sectors.
13 countries, delivering world-class risk analysis and risk The division employs some 1,400 people, primarily based transfer solutions.
in London, but who also work in close collaboration with all Review of Operations of JLTs international offices, supplying them with industry expertise, advice and access to international markets.
JLT Re delivered a strong performance in 2015, with revenues increasing by 5% to nearly 174 million and organic revenue Review of Operations growth of 2%.
JLT Specialty generated revenues of 311.2 million in the Trading profits increased by 24% to 32.4 million.
This is year, showing revenue growth of 7%, or 4% on an organic reflected in an improved trading margin of 19%, with the basis.
Trading profit increased by 19% to 68.3 million, with business completing the successful integration of the the trading margin increasing 200 basis points to 22%.
Towers Watson Re US platform, as well as driving further This was a strong result given the continued fall in insurance operational efficiencies.
pricing, achieved in challenging market conditions, Particularly noteworthy in 2015 has been the growth delivered demonstrating the strategic and operational logic of the in Asia as our capabilities and reputation in the region merger between JLT Specialty and Lloyd & Partners.
We believe that the combined business is now a Specialty This performance was pleasing when set against the powerhouse, as evidenced by a significant number of client continued decline in the reinsurance rating environment during wins during the year.
It is worth noting that since acquiring the Towers Particularly notable has been the performance of our Aviation, Watson Re business just over 2 years ago we have seen Credit, Political & Security and Financial Lines teams, which property catastrophe rates fall over 30%.
have been able to translate their specialist knowledge into a The appointment of Ed Hochberg as the CEO of our North stream of important client wins.
American reinsurance business has been well received by JLT Specialty now has new leadership in place following our clients, markets and our colleagues.
This business is the planned succession of Paul Knowles to the role of CEO well positioned for growth, building on its already strong US with Lucy Clarke as his Deputy.
This new team is continuing Regional, Public Sector and Natural Catastrophe practices, to drive collaboration with JLTs other Specialty businesses as well as targeting other areas such as Transportation and around the world, in particular our developing US platform, Workers Compensation.
strengthening our global Specialty proposition.
We have continued to invest in talent, selectively hiring in During 2016, we will be taking the opportunity to merge our key growth areas, as well as in analytics, where we are UK Thistle operation into JLT Specialty.
This reflects Thistles complementing our existing offering with new tools and drive into Specialty segments and will improve the client capabilities that further increase our ability to serve insurers and offering, simplify the Groups structure and generate reinsurers on their largest and most complex risks.
As we enter 2016, there are signs that demand for reinsurance JLT Specialtys revenue growth prospects are set to continue is increasing.
We have seen significant reserve strengthening on in 2016, supported by the further investments we are making long tail lines of business for a number of large carriers, and a in Specialty areas such as Marine, Financial Lines, Cyber and recognition that, at current pricing, reinsurance is an extremely General Aviation and our proven ability to consistently win efficient form of capital.
The business has had a good market share.
1 January renewal season and remains well positioned for future growth.
Principal lines of business Accident & Health, Aerospace, Construction, Principal lines of business Communications, Technology & Media, Cargo, Credit, All classes of Treaty and Facultative Reinsurance and Political & Security, Cyber, Energy, Financial & Professional, Corporate Finance Advisory.
Fine Art, Jewellery & Specie, Food and Agribusiness, Life Science, Marine, Mining, Power, Renewables, Real Estate and Specialty Property and Casualty.
29 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED Good progress was seen in our Hong Kong, Philippines and JLT AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND Vietnamese businesses in particular, while our Financial Lines 2015 2014 % change and Credit & Political Risks businesses also had a good year.
Total revenue 109.5m 114.1m 4% Under the new leadership of Dominic Samengo-Turner as CEO and Warren Downey as his Deputy, we are encouraged Underlying trading profit 32.7m 32.3m 1% by the prospects for this business in 2016.
Trading margin 30% 28% Principal lines of business Aviation, Capital Risks, Construction, Energy, Financial and JLT Australia & New Zealand is one of the leading Professional Risks, Intellectual Property and Cyber, Marine, insurance brokers in the region, combining international Property, Small & Medium Enterprises SME and depth with local, specialist expertise to deliver a Consumer Products.
comprehensive range of insurance and risk solutions products and services to its clients.
The division employs some 850 people across 31 locations.
JLT LATIN AMERICA Review of Operations 2015 2014 % change In our JLT Australia & New Zealand business, organic revenue grew 6%, but reported revenues reduced by 4%, Total revenue 63.1m 60.7m 4% when compared with the previous year, as a consequence of the movement of the Australian Dollar versus Sterling.
Underlying trading profit 21.3m 19.3m 10% At constant rates of exchange, the trading profit increased Trading margin 34% 32% by 13%, but, again, this was impacted on a reported basis.
The business secured a significant number of client wins JLT Latin America provides insurance broking, reinsurance in the year, including both one of the largest construction broking and affinity insurance distribution through subsidiary companies and one of the largest oil and gas companies in operations in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Peru.
Its progress reflects the success of its strategy One of the largest brokers in the region, the business prides of establishing itself as a Specialty player.
itself on its in-depth capabilities in its chosen Specialties.
This momentum has allowed the business to continue to It employs approximately 700 people across 20 offices in 5 invest in strengthening its team in its key Specialty areas.
Principal lines of business Review of Operations Construction, Energy, Entertainment and Leisure, Our JLT Latin America operations delivered strong results, Financial and Professional Services, Food and with revenues increasing 16% on an organic basis.
Agribusiness, Government, Manufacturing, Mining, People Our trading profits increased by 10% to 21.3 million, with Risks, Real Estate, Retail, SME and Consumer Products, the business successfully collaborating with our other offices Sport, Transport and Logistics.
We are winning significant new business in Energy, Surety, Cargo, Power and large industrial Property and Casualty.
JLT ASIA Set against its domestic macro-economic backdrop, our Brazilian business, in particular, delivered a good performance.
2015 2014 % change Principal lines of business Total revenue 76.6m 71.8m 7% Aviation, Construction, Energy and Power, Financial Lines, Underlying trading profit 12.7m 11.3m 12% Marine, Industrial Property and Casualty, Public Sector, Affinity Marketing & Distribution, Reinsurance Treaty & Facultative.
Trading margin 17% 16% JLT Asia provides insurance broking and risk management services in selected Specialties across the region.
The businesss rich history and in-depth local knowledge, together with the close working relationship it enjoys with Jardine Matheson, have cemented its position as one of the market leaders in Asia.
The division employs over 1,000 people across 13 territories.
Review of Operations JLT Asia has delivered an encouraging performance, despite a difficult macro-economic environment caused by the slowdown in China and falling commodity prices.
Revenues grew by 7% to 76.6 million, with organic revenue growth of 3%.
Trading profits grew by 12% on a reported basis, but were flat on a constant rate of exchange basis.
30 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS JLT CANADA JLT USA JLT Canada is one of Canadas leading national insurance brokers, 2015 2014 % change providing insurance broking and risk management services.
Total revenue 23.3m 11.3m 106% We focus on markets central to the Canadian economy, such as construction, public sector, natural resources, life science, Underlying trading profit 20.5m 2.7m - healthcare and professional groups.
JLT Canada employs approximately 180 people across 7 locations, including a new Trading margin - - branch which opened in Halifax, Nova Scotia in May 2015.
JLT USA was formed in August 2014 as a Specialty broker Review of Operations to serve leading US and global firms within specific industries JLT Canada reported revenue of 20.4 million in 2015, and product lines where we are able to use our expertise to representing organic revenue growth of 8%.
The business provide clients with bespoke risk management solutions.
generated a trading profit of 1.5 million, which was a significant The division employs some 180 people in 13 locations across turnaround given that the business made a loss of 1.1 million the US.
in 2014. Review of Operations The underlying performance of the business remains pleasing when set against the impact of a very competitive landscape JLT USA generated revenues of nearly USD36 million, which and significant over-capacity in the Canadian insurance equates to 23.3 million, in its first full year of operation.
marketplace, which is being affected by lower investments within This demonstrates an acceleration from the USD11 the natural resources sector as a result of deflated oil prices and million delivered at the half year and the growing revenue a weakened Canadian dollar.
The business also secured a number of important client wins during the year which were The Public Sector practice continues to grow organically and not booked in 2015, but that will benefit 2016. client retention remains very high.
We are continuing to invest in attracting talent in our core Specialties, repositioning JLT Canada As anticipated in our Q3 2015 Interim Management to become a leading Specialty broker.
Statement, the net investment spend in the period of USD31.4 million 20.5 million was lower than had been previously advised.
JLT EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA While total revenues were short of our initial expectations, this JLT Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA offers insurance was largely due to the business taking a more prudent and broking and risk management expertise in a region with a growing selective approach to hiring, given the volume of approaches appetite for a Specialty offering.
The division employs nearly 300 we have received.
This is important as we are seeking to people across 11 countries with owned operations in Denmark, grow the franchise by identifying the very best people.
Finland, France, Netherlands, Norway and Sweden across Europe, and in Bahrain, Qatar, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates across the Please see page 16 of the Chief Executives Review for more Middle East and in South Africa.
details of the plans we have for this business.
Review of Operations Principal lines of business JLT EMEA reported revenue of 30.1 million in 2015, representing Aviation, Credit, Political and Security, Cyber, Financial Lines, organic revenue growth of 19%, or 22% growth at constant rates Energy, Entertainment, Representations & Warranties and or exchange.
The business grew its trading profit by 72% to 6.0 Real Estate & Construction.
million and its trading margin improved 700bp to 20%.
During the year, we successfully completed the acquisition of Eikos OTHER RISK & INSURANCE BUSINESSES Risk Applications in South Africa, a market-leading marine and transportation insurance broker, adding significant scale to our JLT INSURANCE SERVICES South African operations.
The businesses also continued to grow JLT Insurance Services comprises, primarily, Thistle UK and organically, establishing a new operation in Turkey in early 2015.
Thistle UK specialises in the leisure and lifestyle, commercial, professional risks with distribution on a direct and JLT INSURANCE MANAGEMENT wholesale basis, while GCube is one of the worlds leading providers of renewable energy insurance providers with the JLT Insurance Management provides leading corporations with main offices in London, Los Angeles and New York.
The two Captive Management services in Barbados, Bermuda, Guernsey, divisions employ over 350 people.
Malta, Singapore and the US.
The business employs approximately 60 people across these locations.
Review of Operations Review of Operations Revenue in JLT Insurance Services declined 6% year-on-year to 50.6 million.
Underlying trading profit declined to 6.0 Against a backdrop of declining captive demand in many global million and the trading margin deteriorated to 12%, primarily as markets, the business delivered revenues of 8.2 million, a 11% a result of a significant decline in the underlying trading profit of increase on 2014, or an increase of 4% at constant rates of Thistle UK as a result of competition and rating pressures.
Trading profit increased to 0.5 million from 0.4 million in 2014.
This was partially offset by GCube, which saw strong growth in its underlying trading profit driven by operational efficiencies Through the provision of captive management and consultancy and stronger growth in the US.
services, JLT Insurance Management supports some of JLTs largest global clients and, as such, plays a key role in programmes that deliver a significant amount of revenue to the wider JLT Group.
31 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Our Employee Benefits business offers a EMPLOYEE BENEFITS comprehensive range of employee benefits advice Revenue Underlying Trading Profit 2015 2015 and services to companies, pension trustees and individuals.
288.5m 43.6m Our specialist teams act as advisors, intermediaries 2% 33% 2014: 283.6m 2014: 65.0m and service providers in the areas of pensions consultancy and administration, employee Trading Margin Employees 2015 2015 benefits and healthcare, life insurance and wealth management.
15% 3,121 2014: 23% 2014: 2,827 CONTRIBUTION TO GROUP REVENUE 2015 25% OUR GLOBAL EMPLOYEE BENEFITS BUSINESSES PROVIDE SERVICES INCLUDING: health services, and placement of Our Businesses: PENSION ADMINISTRATION health and risk protection policies for UK & Ireland p33 Providing an array of administration corporate workforces.
Asia p33 services designed to meet the Australia & NZ p34 requirements of both pension WEALTH AND INVESTMENT Latin America p34 trustees and corporate sponsors, MANAGEMENT Canada p34 from back-office support to fully Europe, Middle East & Africa p34 outsourced administration.
The Offering advice and support to highrange is supplemented with payroll, net-worth individuals in respect of Excludes employees in shared service operations communication, documentation and their financial planning, at-retirement technical services.
support and life protection requirements.
Providing discretionary TRUSTEE & CORPORATE management of assets for both highnet-worth individuals and company AND BENEFITS CONSULTING pension schemes, in addition to Providing integrated risk management asset-hosting services.
services to the UK pensions market, to meet the requirements of both pension SOFTWARE trustees and corporate sponsors, Providing pension software to including actuarial, investment and risk actuaries, accountants, in-house transfer consultancy, scheme design, pension departments, pension governance and independent trustee scheme trustees and the majority services.
Our benefits consulting of UK third-party administrators, as teams provide advice on and well as online, integrated benefits implementation of employee health management systems to a variety of and benefit programmes, medical corporate and trust-based clients.
claims administration, occupational 32 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UK & IRELAND ASIA 2015 2014 % change 2015 2014 % change Total revenue 167.4m 183.2m 9% Total revenue 78.9m 69.3m 14% Underlying trading profit 12.8m 36.0m 64% Underlying trading profit 24.5m 23.4m 4% Trading margin 8% 20% Trading margin 31% 34% JLT Employee Benefits is one of the largest employee benefit Our Employee Benefits business in Asia primarily and pension consultants in the UK, offering a comprehensive focuses on helping companies develop employee benefit range of employee benefits advice and services to companies, programmes and on wealth management for high-net-worth pension trustees and individuals.
The division employs more than 700 people approximately 1,700 people across 19 locations in the UK across 13 locations.
Review of Operations Review of Operations Our Asia Employee Benefits operations achieved revenue Reported revenues in our UK and Irish business for the period growth of 14%, despite headwinds in Indonesia, notably were 167.4 million, a reduction of 9% when compared to from the introduction of a mandatory state-sponsored the previous year.
Trading profits were 12.8 million, with the healthcare scheme and some impact from restructuring of trading margin falling from 20% to 8% for the year.
This disappointing performance reflects the challenges that we Private Client Services PCS, our high-net-worth life highlighted at the time of our 2015 interim results and in our insurance broking business, had a solid year despite the Q3 Interim Management Statement.
slowdown in the Chinese economy.
Demand for healthcare insurance and consultancy is still strong in Asia, with Firstly, a significant slowdown in project work and new supporting demographics to suggest this will continue.
business due to the uncertainty created by government-led changes to the UK occupational pensions market.
Principal lines of business Secondly, the structural impact of the Retail Distribution Healthcare insurance programmes, including Life and Review on our commission revenue, where we saw insurers Dental, and risk management services including wellness opportunistically choosing to end commission payments in consulting and prevention.
Flexible benefit consulting and advance of the expected deadline of 2016.
We booked our platform design and implementation.
last tranche of commissions-related revenues in 2015.
This amounted to 5 million, which will not be repeated in 2016.
Given the above, we gave guidance in November 2015 that we anticipated that full year revenues in the UK Employee Benefits business would reduce by a mid to high single digit percentage, when compared to 2014, and that trading profit would be in the low to mid-teens, and this has indeed been the outcome for the year.
Despite the challenges of 2015, this is a solid business with a strong offering and an attractive range of capabilities in a market that continues to need and value our services.
Please see pages 16 and 17 of the Chief Executives Review for more details of the steps we are taking to repair this businesss profitability and return it to year-on-year growth.
Principal lines of business Pension Administration, Trustee & Corporate and Benefits Consulting, Wealth & Investment Management, Software Solutions.
33 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS BUSINESSES 2015 2014 % change CANADA Our Employee Benefits business has been providing Total revenue 20.3m 7.7m 164% consultancy, technology and administration services to clients Underlying trading profit 3.3m 2.0m 68% across Canada for over 25 years.
Trading margin 16% 26% Review of Operations Our Canada Employee Benefits business delivered revenues The Employee Benefits business in Australia & New Zealand of 1.3 million, a 15% decline on an organic basis.
provides consultancy and administration services to corporate The business reported a trading loss of 0.2 million, which and private clients across a wide range of company-paid was significantly reduced from the loss of 0.4 million and voluntary employee benefits programmes.
The business reported in 2014. is also one of the regions leading workplace injury risk The expansion of the Employee Benefits business in Canada consultancies and rehabilitation providers, having acquired has continued and, with the business now under new Recovre in Australia and Alpha in New Zealand in 2015.
The leadership, we remain optimistic about its growth potential division employs more than 250 people across 24 locations.
and opportunities for national expansion.
Review of Operations Our Australian & New Zealand Employee Benefits businesses EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA are also progressing well, with organic revenue growth of 18%.
This was supported by the successful execution of our strategy Our Employee Benefits business operates in Europe, Middle to focus on the return-to-work sector, with our acquisitions of East and Africa EMEA.
In South Africa we offer healthcare Recovre and Alpha now making us one of the largest providers consultancy to corporate and private clients, as well as of rehabilitation services in the region.
The integration of these retirement fund consultancy services.
The division employs businesses has gone well and we see further opportunity to over 50 people across the three territories.
expand in this area as clients seek an integrated occupational health and return-to-work service.
As expected, the trading Review of Operations profit margin has reduced for the combined Australian & New Our South African business has continued to show progress, Zealand Employee Benefits business as Recovre and Alpha are, delivering revenue growth of 16% on an organic basis, and intrinsically, lower profit margin businesses.
reporting revenue of 1.7 million for the year.
The retirement funding division has shown good growth, now accounting Principal lines of business for almost 15% of total income, and we believe this business Corporate Health Insurance, Corporate Life and Group remains well-position for further growth.
Income Protection, Personal Accident Insurance, Workers Compensation, Software Solutions, Occupational Rehabilitation, Workplace Health and Safety Consulting.
See page 39 for performance summary by business area LATIN AMERICA 2015 2014 % change Total revenue 18.9m 20.1m 6% Underlying trading profit 3.5m 4.2m 17% Trading margin 19% 21% In Latin America, our Employee Benefits business focuses on providing employee benefits programmes, often built around a healthcare insurance offering.
This is a rapidlydeveloping market where we see the opportunity to expand our capabilities through health management and consulting.
The division currently employs over 300 people across our office network.
Review of Operations In Latin America, organic revenues grew by 12%.
This reflects the investments we have made across the region in building our capabilities and expanding our offering.
This has included opening new offices in Brazil to target larger regional clients, working in close collaboration with colleagues on the Risk & Insurance side of the business.
Principal lines of business Healthcare insurance programmes, including Life and Dental, and risk management services including wellness consulting and prevention.
34 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASSOCIATES In 2015, the underlying contribution from our associates after tax was 5.5 million compared to 7.7 million in 2014, reflecting the sale of our stake in Siaci Saint Honor in May 2015.
2015 2014 Growth Total underlying contribution to JLT 5.5m 7.7m 28% after tax Associate holding at 31 December 2015 GrECo Central & Eastern Europe CIS 20% MAG-JLT Italy 25% March-JLT Spain 25% JLT Sterling Mexico 36% JLT Independent India 26% GRECO CEE CIS JLT STERLING MEXICO JLT has a 20% shareholding in the GrECo Group, a leading specialist Sterling Re Intermedio fide Reaseguro Sa fide CV, which trades as JLT Sterling, is an associate company in which JLT has a 36% insurance broker in Central & Eastern Europe, the Balkans and the shareholding, with the balance of shares being held by Lorant MMS, a CIS regions.
With its headquarters in Vienna, GrECo has 51 offices leading independent retail insurance broker, based in Mexico City.
Its operations outside Austria are branded GrECo JLT.
JLT Sterling provides specialist wholesale and reinsurance services in the Aviation, Casualty, Construction, Energy, Marine, Marine Cargo, Principal specialist areas are Construction & Real Estate, Energy, Property and Specie sectors.
Marine & Marine Cargo, Communications, Technology & Media, and Financial Institutions.
MAG-JLT ITALY JLT INDEPENDENT INDIA JLT has a 25% shareholding in MAG-JLT, a leading speciality broker JLT has a 26% shareholding in JLT Independent.
Our joint venture in Italy with 200 employees in Milan, Naples, Rome and offices in a partner is Sunidhi Group, a leading Indian Financial Services Group.
further 5 cities around the country, as well as a Lloyds broking arm in JLT Independent has 75 staff with offices in Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai London.
Their key business areas include Energy, Construction, Key business areas are Corporate Risk Management & Middle Market, Marine, Aviation, Reinsurance, Employee Benefits, Credit, Political & Aviation, Marine Hull & Machinery, Liability & P&I, Cargo, High-NetSecurity Risks, and Liability.
Worth Yacht, Fine Art, Contingency, and Affinity Employee Benefits, Motor.
MARCH-JLT SPAIN SIACI ST HONOR JLT has a 25% shareholding in March-JLT, which is the 4th largest On 6 May 2015 the Group disposed of its 26% holding in Milestone, commercial insurance broker in Spain.
The joint venture partner is the holding company of Siaci St Honor Siaci for a consideration of Banca March, Spains leading privately-owned financial institution.
Its 80.2 million which generated an exception gain of 18.6 million.
core business is corporate-focused, with Specialty capabilities including The contribution of Siaci to the results of the Group prior to the Construction, Tourism and Marine & Cargo.
The business employs 129 disposal was 3.8 million 2014: 5.4 million.
staff, with offices in Barcelona, Bilbao, La Palmas, Madrid, Mallorca, Seville and Valencia.
35 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015
