Strategic Report Operational Review Adapting to a changing mining industry.
Weir Minerals We delivered another resilient performance in 2015, adapting to reduced activity in mining and investing in our strategy to ensure we are ready to benefit from the long-term structural growth prospects in our end markets.
RICARDO GARIB Divisional Managing Director PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Revenue Operating profit 1,034m 198m -4% -9% 2013 and 2014 are restated at 2015 average exchange rates.
KEY PRIORITIES AND PROGRESS IN 2015 Execute comminution strategy Integration of Trio successfully completed.
through effective integration Globalisation of the product range well underway, of Trio.
helping to secure new projects.
Resources reallocated from traditional mining business to comminution.
Increase investment in research New R&D agreement in place with Imperial College and development to position London, initially focusing on Minerals applications.
the division for future growth.
R&D targeted on strategic focus areas of customer digital experience, mining energy efficiency, transformational ore processing and advanced product design and supply.
Strengthen our interface Plans developed for new service centres in Chile, with our customers through Mexico and Kazakhstan.
enhanced service capability Flexible business options offered to customers, and greater on-site presence.
Key account management processes implemented to help develop further mutually beneficial relationships with customers.
Progress implementation of Successful roll-out achieved in Europe: divisionnew divisional ERP system.
Results in faster and more automated decisionmaking and more integrated supply chain and manufacturing.
Global view of opportunity management.
Increase efficiency and deliver Cost savings realised from manufacturing the benefits of the global consolidation in the USA, France and Australia.
Good progress in procurement initiatives.
Efficiency gains realised at Trio manufacturing facilities.
Market input breakdown Market input by geography Minerals North America 3% 2% General Industrial Latin America 11% 6% Oil and Gas Middle East & Africa 23% Sand and Aggregates 6% Australia 12% Power Asia-Pacific Other 9% Europe 15% 23% 74% 16% The Weir Group PLC 30 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III applying its materials expertise to new opportunities.
MARKET DRIVERS IN 2015 Price declines continued across a number of key We are aligning our resources with strategic growth commodities as markets adjusted to slowing demand in arenas, namely sand and aggregates and the broader China and new lower-cost capacity coming on line.
Iron product portfolio offered by the 2014 acquisition of ore spot prices fell by 40%, copper prices fell by 26% and Trio Engineered Products, to help us capitalise on the gold prices fell 12%.
Supply outstripped demand in iron long-term structural growth prospects of our end Comminution ore and coal, while some operators reduced production markets.
We are prioritising R&D and introducing new The process of crushing, screening and grinding material.
in higher-cost areas with iron ore mine closures in North products to lower our customers total cost of ownership.
In Africa and the United States, At the same time, we continue to improve efficiency higher cost copper mines were closed.
in our own operations through a range of value chain excellence initiatives.
Overall, in 2015, aftermarket demand was supported by the growth of global ore production which benefited from We advanced our innovation agenda through the start-up of several new low-cost mines in South partnerships with leading academic institutions to America and the positive full year effect of mines undertake fundamental research, helping to develop commissioned in 2014, offset by maintenance delays and our capability in areas like additive manufacturing and closures of higher-cost mines.
Oil prices were down by Internet of Things or IoT technology which will around a third, significantly impacting oil sands capital allow the division to monitor and ultimately control the expenditure although production volumes increased.
performance of our equipment using data analytics.
New technology trials are under way, and new product Mining sector capital expenditure fell by an estimated launches continued including the MDC gravel pump and 25% in 2015 with both greenfield and brownfield spend the Cavex 700 CVX Hydrocyclone which reduces costs experiencing further significant reductions from 2014 for our customers via increased throughput and as customers deferred decisions on major projects.
In addition, a new Trio crusher moved from As ore production increased and ore grade declined, development to commercialisation within 12 months.
miners focused on optimising existing sites, resulting in The division was also appointed as technical advisers brownfield opportunities for engineering solutions which to the worlds first electric power plant to base its energy clearly demonstrate efficiency improvements and short on copper tailings: a project in Chile which aims to pay back timescales.
meet demand for more efficient energy production for mining operations.
The October 2014 acquisition of Trio has accelerated Aftermarket demand was supported by the growth our comminution crushing, screening and grinding of global ore production which benefited from the strategy.
Increased collaboration across the division start-up of several new mines in South America.
for comminution products helped to deliver cross-selling benefits for Weir and an improved product range and The recovery in African markets following industrial action support for our customers.
in 2014 was affected by some reduction in production and concerns over further industrial action.
In Asia Pacific, The acquisition of Delta Valves in July 2015 enhanced our markets were relatively stable although weak iron ore global capability, bringing an expanded valves product and coal prices led to some production cuts in Australia, offering primarily for the oil sands and mining markets.
South East Asia and China.
Similarly, lower commodity The division also successfully integrated Trio Engineered prices led to production reductions in North America.
Products and built a global sales and marketing team to Political and economic instability in Eastern Europe globalize its products.
Plans were also developed to open contributed to subdued conditions.
new service centres in Chile, Mexico and Kazakhstan.
In the second half of the year, some of the worlds largest The divisions value chain excellence projects remained mining companies reacted to falling commodity prices by on track during the year, notably the staged roll-out of announcing substantial restructuring plans which included a common Enterprise Resource Planning ERP tool.
The the mothballing or closure of mines that fail to offer roll-out of the system to our European operations is now sufficient returns.
complete, with Latin America due next.
The introduction of a Sales & Operating Process system in Africa has STRATEGIC PROGRESS contributed to lead time reductions across over 2,500 parts, In the context of challenging market conditions, the resulting in an average lead time improvement of three division has continued to execute its strategy, including weeks and in some specific cases up to twelve weeks.
Revenue m Operating profit m 1,034m 198m -4% -9% 250 1,200 1,130 237 1,077 1,034 218 1,000 200 198 800 150 600 100 400 50 200 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 The Weir Group PLC 31 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Operating profit decreased by 9% on a constant Operational Review continued currency basis to 198m 2014: 218m, reflecting Weir Minerals continued lower volumes, 5m 2014: 1m of one-off acquisition integration costs and increased investment in product development.
Reported operating profit fell by 13% We have taken steps to increase efficiency in after a 4% foreign exchange headwind 2014: 226m.
response to market conditions by leveraging our bestcost manufacturing capability and consolidating smaller Operating margin declined, as anticipated, by 100bps manufacturing sites into larger, more efficient centres.
to 19.2% 2014: 20.2%, and was 19.5% 2014: 20.3% A reorganisation has been completed in North America, on a like-for-like basis.
Gross margins before resulting in five manufacturing sites being consolidated manufacturing overhead under-recoveries increased into two, and we closed a small manufacturing facility by 120bps on a like-for-like basis, as a result of a more in France with production transferred to sister sites.
favourable aftermarket mix and the benefits of Consolidation of manufacturing activity has been procurement and restructuring initiatives, which more completed in Australia, and workforce reductions have than outweighed pricing pressure.
This was offset at been implemented across Asia Pacific, Latin America an operating level by the effect of negative operating and Africa.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Capital expenditure of 41m 2014: 45m included Order input decreased by 4% to 1,033m 2014: 1,076m, investment in completing the restructuring and with a 9% like-for-like decline partially offset by a full year consolidation of the divisions regional manufacturing contribution from Trio and a first contribution from Delta footprint announced in November 2014.
The divisions book-to-bill at 1.00 was also continued the roll-out of its standardised ERP system stable year-on-year.
Original equipment orders were in Europe.
down 6% year-on-year 19% lower like-for-like, reflecting declines in capital expenditure by miners and oil and gas Research and development spend increased to 13m customers.
Contrary to overall trends, the division had a 2014: 11m and was focused on continuing to develop strong performance from the Geho product line, which the divisions product portfolio, materials technology captured a large share of available mining projects.
and IoT and additive manufacturing capabilities which are being developed on behalf of the whole Group.
Aftermarket orders decreased by 3% and represented 70% of total input 2014: 69%.
On a like-for-like basis 2016 DIVISIONAL OUTLOOK aftermarket input was down 5% against a strong We expect further reductions in mining capital expenditure prior-year figure, primarily due to declines in power, oil in 2016, marking the fourth successive year of reduced and gas and industrial markets.
Greenfield and brownfield capex is expected to were broadly stable as the impacts of mine closures and fall, partly offset by a modest rise in sustaining capex.
customers reducing safety stock levels and postponing We anticipate slight growth in global ore production as scheduled maintenance was offset by the move to full increased capacity from low cost mines is largely offset production in a number of greenfield sites in South by the full year impact of previously announced mine America, together with underlying ore production trends.
Sand and aggregates end market prospects remain attractive, particularly in North America and South In total, mining end markets accounted for 74% of input East Asia, helping to mitigate the impact of reduced 2014: 74% with orders down 6% on a like-for-like basis mining original equipment revenues.
due to original equipment declines.
Sand and aggregates markets were stable while oil and gas sector orders fell 34%.
Oil and gas markets will remain challenging, impacting capital expenditure in oil sands and upstream North Revenue was 4% lower at 1,034m on a constant American markets, although production levels in the currency basis 2014: 1,077m and 9% lower like-for-like.
oil sands are expected to remain resilient.
Original equipment sales were 14% lower 25% lower on a like-for-like basis and accounted for 29% 2014: 33% Overall, the division is expected to deliver slightly lower of divisional revenue.
Production-driven aftermarket constant currency revenues with operating margins revenues were relatively flat, up 1% over the prior year, broadly stable as additional cost saving measures offset but down 1% on a like-for-like basis.
Strong aftermarket growth in South America and higher KEY PRIORITIES IN 2016 activity levels in the Middle East only partially offset Actively respond to changing market conditions, reduced revenues in Australia, North America, Europe ensuring ongoing competitiveness.
At a product category level there was Leverage the divisions unrivalled service centre a reduction in revenues from larger, more discretionary network to increase customer responsiveness products such as HPGRs, hoses and other wear resistant in challenging market conditions to support liners, as well as a significant reduction in demand for financial performance.
swellable packers used in North American oil and gas Reallocate internal resources to facilitate Trio product completions.
There was a 4% increase in slurry pump line growth in mining and sand and aggregates spares revenues reflecting their critical importance end markets.
to support increasing processing and their lower Align R&D spend with customer focus areas of susceptibility to maintenance delays.
efficiency, optimising ore recovery, data and control, reducing environmental impact and digital supply chain.
Reported revenues declined by 8%, reflecting Drive the benefits of the Delta Industrial Valves a 5% foreign exchange headwind 2014: 1,128m.
acquisition and leverage enhanced product offering to expand presence in oil sands and global mining markets.
Utilise global resources to deliver value chain excellence including the continued consolidation of the divisions ERP systems.
The Weir Group PLC 32 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III Strategy in action Collaboration Engineering Efficiency When the Group acquired Trio Engineered Teams from around the world worked together to fully Products in 2014 it purchased a business with integrate Trio into the Weir Group and develop the sales a strong reputation and operational footprint in teams which would allow the Group to fully realise the China and North America.
Trio also allowed Weir to benefits of the acquisition.
Now, as an important part of further pursue its strategy of using its technology the Weir Minerals division, Trio has a global sales team leadership in one market as a platform for entering and new products developed using Weirs materials new and adjacent markets.
expertise which are being marketed to customers all over the world.
Trio comminution products for screening, crushing and grinding sit alongside established Weir products in the mining mill processing circuit.
Trios presence in sand and aggregates markets also gave the opportunity to cross sell Weir products into this industry while Weir could globalise Trios product portfolio by selling its products through Weirs worldwide network.
The Weir Group PLC 33 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Operational Review continued The division responded quickly to challenging Weir Oil & Gas markets in 2015.
We reduced costs significantly while continuing to invest in our strategic priorities.
PAUL COPPINGER Oil & Gas Divisional Managing Director PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Revenue Operating profit 582m 58m -45% -76% 2013 and 2014 are restated at 2015 average exchange rates.
KEY PRIORITIES AND PROGRESS IN 2015 Respond with agility to Rapid cost reduction programme implemented changing marketing dynamics including the consolidation of one manufacturing and improve overall business and twelve service centres.
performance through delivery Workforce reduction from more than 4,000 of Value Chain Excellence to approximately 3,000. improvement plans.
Inventory was reduced by 64m or 24%.
21% improved on-time-delivery on average across the division.
ERP systems reduced from nine to seven.
Continue to globalize Pressure Control introduced bundled frack packages leadership position in to further optimise drilling and well completion sites.
Pressure Pumping and Pressure Pumping broadened manufacturing progress towards a Tier 1 capabilities to the Middle East and China.
Pressure Pumping expanded its strategic partnership with Rolls Royce subsidiary MTU, agreeing to establish a joint venture.
Enhance product offerings SPM QEM 3000 launched which will deliver the in Pressure Control & industrys first continuous duty high horsepower Pressure Pumping.
SPM RFID technology was launched to track the lifecycle of customer equipment.
Mathena introduced the first stage of their Intelligent Sensor System for monitoring and control of key drilling equipment in the field.
Expand capabilities of Weir Oil Dubai facility represents the industrys first & Gas Services in the UAE, Iraq wellhead manufacturer in the Middle East region.
and Saudi Arabia, including The facility has received certification from Kuwait the benefits of its new regional Oil Company KOC and BP entity ROO meaning manufacturing hub in Dubai.
it is now on their approved list of manufacturers.
Acquired new Iraq facility to support recent growth in the country.
Market input breakdown Market input by geography Oil and Gas North America 1% General Industrial Latin America 5% 2% 7% Power Middle East & Africa 1% Europe Australia Asia-Pacific 24% 62% 1% 97% The Weir Group PLC 34 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III costs by insourcing production, reducing shift numbers MARKET DRIVERS International oil benchmarks Brent crude and West Texas and furloughing or suspending operations for short Intermediate crude WTI fell by around two thirds between periods.
These cost savings, which helped offset pricing their 2014 peak and the end of 2015 while natural gas prices pressure from customers during the year, have an annual fell by more than 60%, with a subsequent reduction in run rate of 75m.
These were achieved while continuing capital spending and activity by oil companies.
Operators to make progress on the divisions strategic priorities.
sought significant pricing discounts from suppliers as part of their focus on reducing expenditure.
Progress in innovation included the launch of the first high-horsepower frack pump designed for continuous In North America, the divisions biggest market, rig count duty pressure pumping.
Oil-directed rigs fell 64% and gas-directed rigs developed after extensive customer consultation and reduced by 52%, both greater than market expectations meets demand for more intense engineering solutions at the start of the year.
The number of wells drilled in North to improve productivity and lower costs.
The QEM 3000 America fell 53% with the number of horizontal wells drilled is estimated to lower customers total operating costs by down by around 40%, substantially reducing demand for around 20%.
The division also introduced the Mathena pressure control equipment and services.
Mud-Gas Separator MGS intelligent sensor technology to pressure control markets.
It allows for the monitoring In pressure pumping markets, North American frack fleet and control of mud levels within the MGS system utilisation fell from 87% in 2014 to below 50% in 2015. allowing Weir and our customers to more reliably predict Pressure control markets also experienced sharp reductions component performance.
in activity in line with rig count declines.
With substantial additional equipment lying idle, there was an increase in The division continued its collaboration with Rolls Royce destocking and component cannibalisation which reduced subsidiary MTU and agreed to establish a joint venture to demand for both original equipment and aftermarket spares develop an integrated frack power system.
Weir Seaboard and maintenance services.
In China, which has the largest established a cross-functional Product Development frack fleet outside of North America, demand was subdued Team which is comprised of a majority of non-engineers.
after strong growth in previous years.
During the year, the team invited customers, Weir field service engineers, district sales and outside sales and In order to cut costs, many operators in North America production teams to participate in the development of negotiated pricing concessions which impacted the whole new wellhead systems.
The initiative has resulted in the industry.
USA oil production peaked in April and had fallen development of five new wellhead systems: with the first 6% by January 2016.
As a result of ongoing efficiency gains due for delivery to a customer in 2016. in the industry and higher production levels, the breakeven cost per well fell by around a quarter in 2015.
The divisions value chain excellence VCE initiatives substantially reduced inventory levels through improved In the Middle East, production increased, particularly in sales and planning procedures.
They also significantly Saudi Arabia and Iraq, with the average rig count increasing increased on-time delivery, particularly in Pressure 2%, although projects were subject to delay and customers Control, which benefited from recent restructuring.
targeted cost reductions from suppliers in line with the Initiatives across the division included multiple kaizen or global industry.
In higher cost production regions such as continuous improvement projects and the implementation Internet of Things the North Sea and the Caspian, market conditions were of Advanced Product Quality Planning to improve supplier A network of devices which use computer chips and sensors to more challenging.
At Mathena, optimal layouts collect data and digitally transmit it through the internet.
were designed for each of its service centres increasing STRATEGIC PROGRESS the effectiveness of floor design, improved equipment The dramatic change to oil and gas markets and the effect maintenance processes and a safer work environment of substantially reduced activity across our main markets for employees.
meant 2015 was a very challenging year.
The division was quick to reshape, ensuring our capacity was closely The division continued to extend its investment in its aligned to customer demand with the consolidation of one global capability.
The new regional headquarters in manufacturing facility and 12 service centres.
There was Dubai, UAE, became fully operational in 2015 and is also a substantial reduction in the divisions workforce, the first facility in the country to manufacture wellheads principally in North America where headcount reduced by meeting demand for lower response times.
In addition, the division further reduced Revenue m Operating profit m 582m 58m -45% -76% 1,200 250 239 1,049 1,000 200 181 800 792 150 600 582 100 400 58 50 200 0 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015 The Weir Group PLC 35 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report growth in Iraq, partially offsetting declines in the North Operational Review continued Sea and the Caspian.
Downstream revenues fell slightly, Weir Oil & Gas continued with performance impacted by project delivery delays.
Operating profit, including joint ventures, was 76% The division also acquired a new service centre in Iraq lower on a constant currency basis at 58m 2014: 239m.
to add to its existing regional facilities in Abu Dhabi, the The decline was entirely attributable to North American Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Oman and Azerbaijan.
A new upstream operations, despite c. 40m of cost savings service centre was also opened in China to support oil and strong profit growth from Services and Downstream.
Reported operating profit decreased by 74% after a 6% foreign exchange tailwind 2014: 225m.
A new manufacturing facility is under construction in Milan, Italy, which will bring operations currently undertaken Operating margin was down 1280bps reflecting the across three buildings into one modern plant designed to impact of pricing pressure, lower volumes and negative optimise production and serve downstream oil and gas operating leverage.
Divisional gross margins before customers, principally in the Middle East.
manufacturing overhead under-recoveries were down 370bps year-on-year, with double-digit North American Order input at 567m 2014: 1,088m was 48% upstream pricing pressure partially offset by cost and lower reflecting the reduction in activity as oil prices fell operational efficiency measures.
Pressure Pumping substantially over the year.
Aftermarket input was down manufacturing overhead under-recoveries totalled 20m 44% year-on-year, primarily as a result of significant in the year.
declines in the upstream North American markets, with Services also down, and a slight decline in Downstream.
Capital expenditure of 36m 2014: 50m included On a sequential basis, aftermarket orders were relatively a new manufacturing facility for Downstream in Milan stable from the third to the fourth quarter, despite further and further expansion of Services facilities in the declines in activity as a result of continued falling oil prices Middle East, including the acquisition of a service Aftermarket orders increased to 76% 2014: 71% of facility in southern Iraq.
Original equipment input was 57% lower, driven primarily by reduced demand for pressure pumping Total R&D expenditure of 10m 2014: 8m was focused equipment and wellheads as frack fleet utilisation and the on expanding the divisions product offering and included number of wells drilled fell substantially.
the launch of the new SPM QEM 3000 continuous duty frack pump.
Pressure Pumping input was down 59%, with order rates declining sequentially quarter-on-quarter and 2016 DIVISIONAL OUTLOOK original equipment orders falling below lows experienced Having fallen materially at the start of the year, the market in the downturn of 2009.
As expected, cannibalisation of expects oil prices to remain low throughout much of 2016. idle frack fleet continued throughout the year in response to rig count reductions, which together with destocking, Many E&P and service companies have announced plans significantly reduced aftermarket demand for flow control to further reduce their capital spending plans.
As a result, and fluid end products.
Service and maintenance input market conditions are expected to remain challenging.
Customers remain focused on achieving efficiency improvements and are actively So far in 2016, North American rig count and activity trialling the business broader  have continued to fall with a consequent impact differentiated product portfolio.
Continued declines in activity will extend the period of destocking and cannibalisation Pressure Control input also fell significantly, although both in pressure pumping markets through the first half of Seaboard and Mathena maintained market share in a very the year with market rationalisation expected to continue.
Seaboard continued to see good Conditions are also expected to be more challenging interest in its zipper manifold product line as customers in international and downstream markets.
Mathena input was impacted by customers downgrading the range and The division continues to reduce costs and increase specification of the equipment used during drilling.
efficiency and will take proactive action to support operational performance as appropriate.
However, these Input from Services operations decreased year-on-year, measures will not fully offset market impacts, and primarily due to reduced activity levels in the North Sea consequently a further significant reduction in constant and Caspian although the core Middle East business was currency divisional revenues is expected.
Downstream order input was also will be impacted by additional negative operating leverage, down on a strong prior year, as customers continued to with North American upstream businesses currently delay project activity in subdued markets.
operating around breakeven, albeit still cash generative.
Revenue decreased by 45% to 582m on a constant KEY PRIORITIES FOR 2016 currency basis 2014: 1,049m, reflecting order input Proactively respond to challenging market conditions trends, particularly in North America.
Original equipment through continued commitment to value chain and aftermarket revenues decreased by 54% and 41% excellence improvement initiatives.
respectively, with aftermarket accounting for 77% of total Leverage Weirs global capability to strengthen current revenues 2014: 72%.
Reported revenues fell by 41%, market share positions and penetrate new markets.
Enhance the division's relationships with key customers through innovative custom tailored Pressure Pumping benefited from a positive opening products and solutions.
order book in the first quarter before the reduction in Support the transition of Gabbioneta to its new facility North American upstream activity impacted revenue.
in Milan and its successful integration into the Flow Pressure Control revenues decreased in line with order Control division.
Services revenues were more resilient with The Weir Group PLC 36 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I I: : S St trategic rategic R Re epor port t II III Strategy in action Innovation Delivering continuous duty Engineers in our O Oil & G & as division estimate Weirs The pump includes a number of innovations which have Lower total new generation frack pump could reduce customers met with positive customer feedback, even in challenging cost of ownership total cost of ownership by around 20%.
These include: new lubrication QEM 3000 is also the first high-horse power frack solutions to address pump failure due to poor lubrication: 20% pump designed for continuous-duty pressure using the largest frack pump bearing on the market to pumping operation at 275,000-pound force rod load.
increase component life and reduce downtime: a new frame structure to reduce cracking due to vibration and TM The Texas based team worked closely with customers utilising the latest SPM Duralast Fluid End Technology to fully understand their needs and developed the which lasts up to five times as long as conventional product to meet demand for increased operating hours fluid ends.
Given the increasing intensity of hydraulic fracturing operations, traditional frack pumps were The SPM QEM 3000 pump will be integrated into reaching the limits of their design capabilities.
The SPM purpose-built hydraulic fracturing power systems which QEM 3000 delivers a pump with unrivalled durability and is being developed as part of the joint venture between cost-efficiency which reduced expensive downtime and Weir and Rolls Royce subsidiary MTU.
The Weir Group PLC 37 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Operational Review continued The division responded to market conditions Weir Power & Industrial by further streamlining its operations and improving operating margins.
JOHN HEASLEY Power & Industrial Divisional Managing Director PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Revenue Operating profit 302m 22m -5% 15% 2013 and 2014 are restated at 2015 average exchange rates.
KEY PRIORITIES AND PROGRESS IN 2015 Complete and deliver the Successfully completed restructuring programme benefits of the divisions delivering improved margins which increased from restructuring programme.
In addition, increased on-time-delivery, improved cost competitiveness and customer satisfaction ratings.
Expand low-cost sourcing and The division increases its use of the Groups leverage VCE to deliver further best-cost sourcing manufacturing facilities to operational efficiency benefits.
More than 20 VCE initiatives delivering substantial improvements to lead times.
Continue to grow valve Double digit increase in Valves aftermarket aftermarket revenues.
revenues as the division benefited from more intense use of assets by customers.
Expand application and Prioritised Research & Development investment product range through with new products aligned to strategic markets.
Sarasin-RSBD safety valve launched for Liquified Natural Gas LNG customers.
R oto-Jet lightweight industrial pump developed and commericalised for hydrocarbon applications.
Rapidly prototyped material tests for hydro runners in collaboration with the Weir Advanced Research Centre.
Additive manufacturing and Internet of Things programmes made good progress.
E xpanded Korean facility enabling a broader range of valves for regional customers.
Continued to make progress with EPCs involved in the LNG market, particularly in Asia Pacific.
Market input breakdown Market input by geography Minerals North America 1% General Industrial Latin America 15% 14% Oil and Gas Middle East & Africa Power Australia 35% Other Asia-Pacific 38% 13% Europe 2% 57% 19% 5% 1% The Weir Group PLC 38 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III Researchers at the Weir Advanced Research Centre MARKET REVIEW Uncertainty over the pace of global economic growth assisted with the development of materials testing led to project delays in power and industrial markets, technology for the hydro business which significantly while activity in oil and gas was affected by the reduced the design time and modelling process, enabling substantial reduction in prices that led to reduced enhanced competitiveness and responsiveness for tenders.
We formed an alliance with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries In conventional power markets, demand was subdued in to jointly seek opportunities in new nuclear build projects, Europe and the United States and there was a significant including examining opportunities in the United Kingdom reduction in South Korean project activity.
New build as it looks to start the development of a new fleet of nuclear opportunities were concentrated in China with nuclear projects.
delays to planned investment in the United Kingdom.
In the United States, hydro markets were stable.
Reduced Reduced spending on new projects supported spending on new projects supported aftermarket demand aftermarket demand as customers used their as customers used their existing equipment more intensely.
STRATEGIC PROGRESS The division continued its innovation process through The division continued to take advantage of the Groups the launch of new products.
The new Sarasin-RSBD best-cost sourcing capability in China, Malaysia, India safety valve for LNG customers and the Roto-Jet and Korea to support performance and competitiveness.
lightweight industrial pump for hydrocarbon applications It also undertook a number of other value chain both add to the divisions growing product portfolio.
excellence activities to further streamline operations and deliver improved on time delivery for customers.
Our engineers worked in collaboration with colleagues in other divisions as part of the Group-wide Internet Recognising the success of the Groups cross-divisional of Things and additive manufacturing programmes WARC downstream forum, which brought together businesses The Weir Advanced Research which saw good progress and delivered encouraging from all three divisions, it was announced in 2016 that Centre at the University of Strathclyde brings leading performance in terms of on-time-delivery, cost Power & Industrial would become the Flow Control academics together with Weir competitiveness and an enhancement to long-term Division with a greater focus on power, oil and gas and engineers to develop solutions which make our customers servicing capabilities.
other  industrial pumps and valves.
As part of the restructure, the Gabbioneta and Floway businesses, which were previously part of the Oil & Gas and Minerals division respectively, will become part of the new Flow Control division.
Revenue m Operating profit m 302m 22m -5% 15% 350 35 318 314 300 302 30 29 250 25 22 200 20 19 150 15 100 10 50 5 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 The Weir Group PLC 39 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Operating profit was up 15% at 22m on a constant currency basis 2014: 19m, as the benefits of the cost reduction and operational improvement measures more Operational Review continued than offset the impact of lower volumes.
Reported Weir Power & Industrial continued operating profits increased 16% after a 1% foreign exchange tailwind 2014: 19m and the benefits of an 8m year-on-year reduction in SG&A.
The divisions global capability was enhanced by the completion of an expanded facility in Korea and Operating margin was up 130bps to 7.2% 2014: 5.9% an upgrade to the Groups Malaysia facility which against the prior year, which was impacted by strike benefitted our valve manufacturing process.
Gross margins before manufacturing overhead under-recoveries increased by 140bps, reflecting the Order input decreased by 11% to 277m 2014: 314m benefits of restructuring and low-cost sourcing.
Cost primarily due to large hydro and steam turbine orders reduction and efficiency measures broadly offset the in 2014 which were not repeated in 2015.
In addition, impact of the negative operational leverage from the customer decisions to delay projects across the divisions revenue decline.
power and industrial markets and oil price reductions impacted mid and downstream oil and gas activity levels.
Capital expenditure of 5m 2014: 9m was primarily Excluding the impact of large one-off orders, input was focused on expanding the capacity of the divisions down 8%.
Original equipment orders were down 20%, Valves facility in South Korea.
Investment in research and driven by the timing of hydro orders, reduced Korean development was stable at 2m 2014: 2m, with a new power orders and oil and gas project delays in Valves.
range of municipal pumps progressing to field trials.
Aftermarket input declined by 2%, with good Valves growth offset by lower Services input.
Total Valves input 2016 DIVISIONAL OUTLOOK was down 12% year-on-year.
Power, oil and gas, and industrial markets are expected to remain subdued in 2016, with uncertainty across most Power, oil and gas, and industrial markets are process industries leading to customers delaying new investment decisions.
Mid and downstream oil and gas expected to remain subdued in 2016, with markets will be affected the most, with existing projects uncertainty across most process industries.
The division, which enters 2016 with a lower order Power markets represented 58% of orders 2014: 58% and book but supported by the benefits of restructuring and the proportion of orders from oil and gas markets decreased strategic growth initiatives, expects broadly flat constant to 13% 2014: 14%.
Emerging markets accounted for 26% currency revenues.
Operating margins are also expected of input 2014: 35%, with a fall in orders from Asia Pacific to be broadly flat as the full year benefit of previous and the Middle East as a result of lower project activity and restructuring actions is offset by modest pricing impacts.
KEY PRIORITIES FOR 2016 Revenue decreased by 5% on a constant currency basis Successfully integrate industrial pump businesses to 302m 2014: 318m, with aftermarket revenues into Flow Control division.
broadly flat on the prior year and original equipment Enhanced profitability and operational improvements.
revenues down 9% supported by the opening order book.
Valves revenues were 5% lower year-on-year, with strong Fast-track new products and expand customer double-digit aftermarket growth offset by project delays digital experience.
Reported revenues fell by 5% and Continue geographic expansion.
were not impacted by foreign exchange movements 2014: 318m.
The Weir Group PLC 40 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III III Strategy in action Global Capability Engineering nuclear solutions in France Weir Power & Industrial France was awarded Weirs flow control experience in nuclear includes a multi-million Euro contract to replace pneumatic the manufacture of isolation, safety and control valves, controls across 28 nuclear reactors.
supporting a global installed base, as well as track record for outage and refurbishment works in power stations.
The award means Weir will be responsible for the design, prototyping and testing, supply of 84 new items, as well Weir will work in collaboration with EDF Energy as well as on-site installation, supervision and commissioning of as alongside nuclear partner SPIE.
Assembly and testing the new equipment.
will be completed within Weirs state of the art St Victoret facility, while the project will require up to 30 on-site The modification programme managed by a Marseilleengineers to manage the modernisation programme based subsidiary of EDF, EDF CIPN, will last seven years across seven simultaneous sites with an estimated and will ensure future safety and integrity of flow control 8000 man hours to be delivered by a fully qualified team.
equipment throughout the enhanced operational lifetime The contract follows on from the Weirs 5 year valve of the EDFs reactors.
maintenance agreement which was signed in 2012.
Weirs innovative solution incorporates a forged block design for the panels and full integration with MSIVs on site, an approach which offers optimal reliability and equipment lifetime while enabling ease of maintenance.
The Weir Group PLC 41 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
