Operational and Marketing Review For unprompted brand awareness, our recall in London is 52%, and for the rest of the UK it is 22%, both more than seven times that of our nearest competitor.
Overview At the start of the prior year we launched a new customer-experience We now have a portfolio of 73 Big Yellow stores and sites of which programme which combines the feedback from mystery shopping 70 are currently open Enfield opened on 1 April 2015.
In addition and customer reviews into the reinforcement of customer focus in we operate from 14 Armadillo Self Storage centres which are located our store operations.
Our net promoter scores from this programme in northern cities.
Our store in Cambridge is expected to open in have increased over the year with part of the store teams bonus late 2015, and our store at Guildford Central is expected to open in linked to the scores they achieve.
Planning negotiations are ongoing at our site in We have a team of eight Area Managers in place who have on average central Manchester.
worked for Big Yellow for eleven years.
They develop and support the stores to drive the growth of the business.
Access to capital and bank facilities has improved in the last year for real estate businesses, including self storage, however this is mainly The store bonus structure rewards occupancy growth, sales growth for larger well-capitalised groups, rather than necessarily the smaller, and cost control through quarterly targets based on occupancy and independent operators.
Growth in new openings over the last four store profitability, including the contribution from ancillary sales of years has averaged 1% of total capacity per annum, down significantly insurance and packing materials.
Information on bonus build up is from the previous decade.
Additionally, in our core markets in London circulated monthly and stores are consulted in preparing their own and the South East, very high land values will render the opportunity targets and budgets each quarter, leading to improved visibility, a for creating new self storage centres difficult.
We believe that we are better understanding of sales lines and control of operating costs.
in a relatively strong position given the strength of our balance sheet We believe that as a consumer-facing branded business it is and our proven property development expertise together with our paramount to maintain the quality of our estate and customer ability to access funding to exploit the right opportunity.
We therefore continue to invest in preventative maintenance, store cleaning and the repair and replacement of Operations essential equipment, such as lifts and gates.
The ongoing annual The Big Yellow store model is well established.
The typical store has expenditure is approximately 30,000 per store, which is included 60,000 sq ft of net lettable storage area and takes some three to five within cost of sales.
This excludes our rolling programme of store years to achieve 80% plus occupancy.
Some stores have taken longer makeovers, which typically take place every five years, at a cost of than this given they opened just before or during the downturn.
The average room size occupied in the portfolio is currently 67 sq ft, compared to 68 sq ft last year.
Demand The store is open seven days a week and is initially run by three staff, Of the customers moving into our stores in the last year, surveys with a part time member of staff added once the store occupancy undertaken indicate approximately 45% are linked to the housing justifies the need for the extra administrative and sales workload.
market, either customers renting storage space whilst moving within The drive to improve store operating standards and consistency the rental sector or the owner occupied sector.
During the year 12% across the portfolio remains a key focus for the Group.
Excellent of our customers who moved in took storage space as a spare room customer service is at the heart of our business objectives, as a for decluttering and approximately 33% of our customers used the satisfied customer is our best marketing tool.
We measure customer product because some event has occurred in their lives generating service standards through a programme of mystery shoppers and the need for storage: they may be moving abroad for a job, have online customer reviews.
inherited possessions, are getting married or divorced, are students who need storage during the holidays, or homeowners developing into their lofts or basements.
The balance of 10% of our customer demand during the year came from businesses.
The website, whether accessed by desktop, tablet or smartphone receives the largest share of prospects, accounting for 86% of all sales leads.
21 Strategic Report continued Operational and Marketing Review continued Our business customers range across a number of industry types, For unprompted brand awareness, our recall in London is 52% and for such as retailers, e-tailers, professional service companies, the rest of the UK it is 22%, both more than seven times higher than hospitality companies and importers exporters.
These businesses our nearest competitor.
These surveys continue to prove we are the store stock, documents, equipment, or promotional materials all UKs brand leader in self storage source: YouGov, May 2015. requiring a convenient flexible solution to their storage, either to get Online started or to free up more expensive space.
The Big Yellow website, whether accessed by desktop, tablet or We have a dedicated national accounts team for business customers smartphone, receives the largest share of prospects, accounting for who wish to occupy space in multiple stores.
These accounts are 86% of all sales leads across the year ended 31 March 2015.
Telephone billed and managed centrally.
We have four full time members of staff is the first point of contact for 9% of prospects and walk-in enquiries, working on growing and managing our national account customers.
where we have had no previous contact with a prospect, represent 5%.
The national accounts team can arrange storage at short notice at any We have the largest online market share of web visits to self storage location for our customers.
In smaller towns where we do not have company websites in the UK.
Across the year ended 31 March 2015, representation, we have negotiated sub-contract arrangements with our online market share of web visits ranged from 33% to 39%.
Our other operators who meet certain operating standards.
Revenue from nearest competitor ranged from 14% to 19% online market share for our national accounts increased by 48% compared to the prior year.
the same period source: Experian Hitwise 44 largest UK operators.
Business customers typically stay longer than domestic customers, We continually monitor and improve the website user journey and also on average occupy larger rooms.
Whilst only representing to make the experience as informative, customer focussed and 10% of new customers during the year, businesses represent 18% intuitive as possible.
Our mobile strategy is central to this.
By the of our overall customer numbers, occupying 34% of the space in our end of March 2015, smartphones and tablets accounted for 48% of all stores.
The average room size occupied by business customers is web visits.
Specifically, smartphones alone accounted for 32% of web 125 sq ft, against 54 sq ft for domestic customers.
This compares visits in March 2015, up from 27% in March 2014. with the SSA Survey result for the industry as a whole which had 59% of space occupied by domestic customers and 41% of space Whether it is through desktop, tablet or mobile, our customers enjoy by businesses.
We would expect to have a higher proportion of a seamless experience whichever digital route they choose.
We are domestic customers given our focus on London and other large continually developing helpful and time saving online tools such as metropolitan cities.
check-in online, online FAQs, video store tours and online chat.
These all help the customer to make an informed choice about their self We have seen solid demand from business customers, as they seek a storage requirements.
cost effective, flexible solution to their storage requirements, preferring self storage to the commitment of a long lease.
We believe there is an Online customer reviews opportunity to grow business occupancy and national accounts Consistent with our strategy of putting the customer at the heart in the coming year.
We have improved our business offer further, of our business, our online customer reviews generate real-time we have increased the resource of our national accounts team, and feedback from customers as well as providing positive word of mouth we are increasing our marketing to drive business prospects.
referral to our web visitors.
Through our Big Impressions customer feedback programme, we ask our new customers to rate our product Marketing and eCommerce and service and with the users permission, we then publish these Our marketing strategy continues to focus on driving customer independent reviews on the website.
There are currently over 11,600 satisfaction and response through our multiple digital platforms.
For the last nine years, we have commissioned a YouGov survey to The Big Impressions programme also generates customer feedback help us monitor our brand awareness.
In our most recent survey, on their experience when they move out of a Big Yellow store and conducted in May 2015, we used a statistically robust sample size also from those prospects who decided not to store with us.
In of 1,035 respondents in London and 2,040 for the rest of the UK.
addition, this programme reinforces best practice of customer The survey has shown our prompted awareness to be at 75% in service at our stores where customer reviews and mystery shop London, two and a half times our nearest competitor and 44% for the results are transparently accessible at all levels.
rest of the UK, over three times higher than our nearest competitor.
In addition, we also gain real-time insight from customers who submit reviews to a third party customer review site.
These reviews Of web visits in March 2015, whether to the are currently averaging 9.5 out of 10.
Big Yellow mobile or desktop websites, We also regularly monitor Google reviews and mentions of Big Yellow 48% come from tablets within the social mediums of Twitter, online forums and blogs.
We use this insight to continually improve our service offering.
22 Driving online traffic Search engines are the most important acquisition tool for us, accounting for the majority of all traffic to the website.
We continue to invest in search engine optimisation SEO techniques both on and off the site.
This helps us to maintain our high positions for the 52% most popular and most searched for terms such as storage and Unprompted brand awareness self storage in the organic listings on Google.
in London The sponsored search listings remain the largest source of paid for traffic and we ensure our prominence in these listings is balanced with effective landing pages to maximise site conversion.
This year, we have also continued with online display advertising on websites which are targeted to our core audience groups.
This activity performs both a direct response and branding role.
22% Efficiencies in online spend are continuing into the year ending 31 March 2016, ensuring the return on investment is maximised Unprompted brand awareness from all of our different online traffic sources.
Online marketing in the rest of the UK budgets will continue to remain fluid and be directed towards the media with the best return on investment.
Social media Social media continues to be complementary to our existing marketing channels.
Our activity is most focussed on Twitter, not only monitoring and answering queries regarding self storage, but 33-39% also posting our own creative tweets, tips and advice.
The Big Yellow YouTube channel is used to showcase our stores to web prospects Online market share through a video store tour.
We use both domestic and business versions to help prospects experience the quality of the product without the need for them to visit the store in person.
Our online blog is updated regularly with tips and advice for homeowners and businesses as well as summaries of our charitable and CSR initiatives.
PR We have used PR stories in the year to help raise the awareness of Big Yellow and the benefits of self storage to different audience groups.
These have focussed on the flexible benefits of using self storage for when you are looking to sell your home, an intriguing insight into how household clutter can damage relationships, plus research into the growing demographic trend of the Boomerang Generation who are returning home to live back with their parents after having flown the nest.
These stories help to promote the wider uses of Big Yellow Self Storage against everyday issues and have generated both national and regional media coverage online and offline.
They are also supported by radio interviews which allow us to talk about the benefits of Big Yellow.
Budget During the year the Group spent approximately 3.6 million on marketing 4% of total store revenue.
We have increased the budget for the year ahead to 4 million with a focus on driving our revenue through delivering more prospects to the website.
