RISK MANAGEMENT The successful delivery of Acacias strategy depends on our ability to manage risks appropriately in a manner that does not jeopardise the interests of our stakeholders.
We assess the principal risks to our business as part of ongoing Our annual business plan and budgeting process incorporates risks business performance and operational reviews, as follows: identified as a result of these reviews.
Residual risks are then identified based on the effectiveness of existing controls and mitigating action We conduct Group-level risk workshops to consider overall plans.
The principal risks identified via this process are then monitored, strategic risks to the business assessed and reviewed throughout the year by the Executive Leadership W e conduct operational risk workshops focused on specific Team in the first instance, the Audit and EHS&S Committees where operational risks in the context of each of our operations relevant to their respective remits of responsibility, and ultimately by the Board, as part of Acacias continuing assessment of risk trends We conduct functional risk workshops to assess key matters which and developments.
could affect underlying support functions, such as treasury, tax, technical services and business improvement, required for our Further detail as regards the outcome of the Boards internal control and long-term business plans risk management review for the year is provided on page 54 and below.
We ensure that principal risks are assessed as material components of our monthly operational and financial performance reporting RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK PRINCIPAL RISK MATRIX RESIDUAL RISKS Current year Previous year Board Ultimately responsible for effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems.
1 1 Audit EHS&S Committee Committee 4 2 3 4 5 2 3 5 6 7 7 Executive Leadership Team 9 8 8 9 Accountable for the design and implementation of risk management processes and the consistent application of risk management systems.
General managers and functional heads Ensure risk management compliance is embodied LOW IMPACT HIGH in Acacia culture, practices and operations.
Principal risks by residual risk 1.
Implementation of enhanced operational systems 3.
Significant changes to commodity prices Internal audit function 4.
Political, legal and regulatory developments Assists the Board and management in executing 6.
Continuity of power supply new for 2015 their responsibilities.
Safety risks relating to mining operations 9.
Single country risk 22 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 RARE PROBABILITY ALMOST CERTAIN STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Relevant pages p80 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk governance and management decreased impact of Ebola in West Africa Assessment of viability As part of continuing assessments for our and the threat that this disease was perceived In addition to risk management reviews, this risk management practices and in light of to have to the wider African continent.
We will year we also conducted additional reviews relating the enhanced requirements introduced for of course continue toassess the potential to business viability relevant to our assessment risk management, monitoring and assessment impact of all material occupational health of Acacias ongoing viability and the related under the 2014 edition of theUK Corporate and wider health risks on our business as part confirmations required to be made in this regard.
Governance Code, this year we conducted of our general health monitoring practices.
In a robust assessment of our risk management addition, we increased our assessment of the Accordingly, the Directors confirm that they and internal controls framework, with the potential impact of a significant environmental have a reasonable expectation that the assistance of Deloitte LLP.
This assessment event on our business in light of the impact Acacia Group will continue to operate and covered a review ofmaterial components of the Samarco tailings dam failure in Minas meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the of the risk management and internal controls Gerais, Brazil.
However, in this regard we next three years.
The Directors assessment practices outlined opposite, the role of our would highlight that our assessment of the has been made with reference to the Acacia internal audit function as regards internal probability of such an event occurring remains Groups current position and prospects, its controls and risk management and the unchanged from 2014.
Lastly, we have decided strategy and the Acacia Groups principal risks interface of riskmanagement with our wider to reintroduce the continuity of power supply and how these are managed, with particular compliance programmes.
as a principal risk, due to increasing and regard to those which are viewed as having continuing fluctuations andstoppages in the most relevance to Acacia continuing in In this regard, we assessed our practices TANESCO power supply experienced during operation, when assessed in terms of financial in the context of risk governance, culture, the year.
and operational planning and impact over ownership and accountability, infrastructure a three-year period, being: environmental and identification, assessment and evaluation, As a result of the review, at the end of 2015 hazards and rehabilitation: implementation reporting, monitoring, review and assurance.
we viewed our principal risks as relating to of enhanced operational systems: significant From a governance perspective, we also the following: change to commodity prices: political, legal reviewed the allocation of risk oversight and regulatory developments: safety risks Single country risk responsibilities for our principal risks between relating to mining operations and equipment Significant changes to commodity prices the Audit and EHS&S Committees and the effectiveness.
Further details as regards these Board.
Further details of the allocation of Political, legal and regulatory developments risks are provided in the principal risks and principal risk oversight are provided as part uncertainties table at page 80.
Security, trespass and vandalism of the principal risk table and Committee Safety risks relating to mining operations reports.
Overall, the review identified a number A three-year assessment period has been Implementation of enhanced operational of key strengths and good practices and did not selected on the basis of the key components systems identify any material or business critical gaps and criteria underpinning the Acacia Groups within the framework we use.
It also identified Equipment effectiveness life of mine planning process.
This process is suggestions for improvement for consideration built on a mine by mine basis using a detailed Environmental hazards and rehabilitation in the context of the continuing evolution of physical and financial model.
It makes certain Continuity of power supply our risk management process in areas such assumptions as regards the ongoing gold price as risk assessment and evaluation, and environment and the performance level of The principal risk matrix opposite shows how training and assurance practices in order to each mine.
Each component of the plan is we have allocated residual risk ratings across further enhance and integrate our framework then stressed tested for market sensitivities these principal risks for 2015.
In addition, the and systems.
as part of ongoing reviews.
The key components table entitled principal risks and uncertainties of the plans, associated principal risks and on page 80 sets out a description of each 2015 Principal risk review relevant scenario testing to this planning of our principal risks, along with commentary For 2015 our principal risks have continued to process are reviewed by the Directors at least regarding management responsibility, fall within four broad categories: strategic risks, annually.
In addition, the life of mine planning Committee and Board oversight, mitigating financial risks, external risks and operational process is underpinned by regular Board action and key progress made in 2015 for risks.
Generally, the makeup of our principal briefings as part of ongoing periodic operational further information purposes.
In addition risks has not significantly changed throughout performance reviews and the discussion to those risks stated, there may be additional the year from those identified as principal of any operational initiatives to be undertaken risks unknown to Acacia and other risks, risks in 2014.
However, there have been in the ordinary course of business.
currently believed to be immaterial or that changes in certain risk profiles as a result relate to the wider gold mining industry, of developments in our operating environment The information relating to Acacias performance that could turn out to be material to the and developments or trends affecting the included on pages 24 to 47 inclusive of this Group.
Additional discussions of certain wider global economy and or the mining Annual Report and the information relating trends and uncertainties that may affect industry.
For the timebeing, this has resulted to its principal risks and uncertainties on our operations are provided in other parts in risks relating to occupational health and pages 80 to 83 inclusive of this Annual Report, of this Strategic report.
life-threatening diseases being removed from is incorporated by reference into this Strategic those risks previously viewed as principal report and is deemed to form part of this risks to Acacia and its operations, given the Strategic report.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 23
