PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Executive Leadership Team Board Board Committee Potential Change Further Risk responsibility oversight responsibility Mitigation comment Progress made in 2015 impact from 2014 information Strategic Risks Single country risk All of Acacias revenue is derived from production at its three operations in CEO CFO Vice President, Board Acacia assesses a wide range of potential Continuing evaluation ofcorporate High Please see Tanzania.
In order to ensure continued growth, the Group needs to identify new Exploration growthopportunities to build on its existing development opportunities across Africa.
ourExploration resources anddevelopment opportunities through exploration and acquisition portfolio, particularly acquisition and development review.
This isparticularly the case in the context of the identification of opportunities outside Tanzaniato maximise growth projectsinKenya, Burkina Faso and Mali.
potential growth opportunities in other territories, something which is required potential and tohelp mitigate the effects that to strengthen the business through geographic diversification in order to mitigate significant developments in Tanzania could have the effects that significant in-country developments could have on our operations onourbusiness.
Financial Risks Significant changes to commodity prices Acacias financial performance is highly dependent on the price of gold and, CFO Board Acacias strategic objective is to provide maximum Ongoing review of commodity price High Please see our toalesser extent, the price of copper and silver.
Fluctuations in the pricing of exposure to the price of gold and we will only fluctuations as part of financial Financial review.
thesecommodities, which are largely attributable to factors beyond Acacias implement gold hedging in specific short-term managementcontrols.
control, will likely have a corresponding impact on Acacias financial condition, scenarios to protect viability of certain assets.
Acacia Ongoing review of hedging policies particularly in the context of rapid pricing fluctuations.
may enter into hedging arrangements for certain for certain commodities.
commodity exposures copper, silver and diesel to attempt to mitigate the impact of pricing fluctuations for such commodities.
We also monitor our exposure to commodity price fluctuations as part of financial and treasury planning and controls procedures.
External Risks Political, legal and regulatory developments Acacias exploration, development and operational activities are subject to CEO Vice President, Board Acacia management assesses legal and political Continuing enhancement of Governmental High Please see the extensivelaws and regulations governing various matters in the jurisdictions in Corporate Affairs risks as part of its evaluation of potential projects.
and regulatory engagement and dialogue.
Acacias ability to conduct its business is dependent on stable It actively monitors legal and political developments and consistent interpretation and application of laws and regulations applicable in countries in which its existing operations are tomining activities and its operations, particularly in Tanzania.
Acacia management actively engages in applicable laws and regulations, a more stringent application or interpretation dialogue with Governments and legal policy makers ofapplicable law and regulation, or inconsistencies and irregularities in the in regions in which it is present to discuss all key interpretation of applicable law and regulation by relevant Government authorities legal and regulatory developments applicable could adversely affect the progression of Acacias operations and development to its operations.
Acacias operations and financial condition will also be adversely affected ifexisting Mineral Development Agreements are not honoured by the Tanzanian Government.
The Group may also be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions, and political and or economic instability in Tanzania or any ofits surrounding countries.
Continuity of power supply Power stoppages, fluctuations and disruptions in power supply, particularly CEO CFO Board Acacia has made a number of investments inpower Continued assessment of power High Please see our electricitysupply in Tanzania, could result in production stoppages and, as a generation capacities at its operations, such that improvementprojects.
result ofincreased dependency on diesel usage, could increase operating costs.
wehave capacity for the self generation of power Continued review ofadditional power to maintain critical systems across sites.
We also stabilisation options foroperations.
assess our power supply sources to introduce cost saving efficiencies where possible.
80 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Key Increase Decrease No change New New for 2015 Executive Leadership Team Board Board Committee Potential Change Further Risk responsibility oversight responsibility Mitigation comment Progress made in 2015 impact from 2014 information Strategic Risks Single country risk All of Acacias revenue is derived from production at its three operations in CEO CFO Vice President, Board Acacia assesses a wide range of potential Continuing evaluation ofcorporate High Please see Tanzania.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 81 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Executive Leadership Team Board Board Committee Potential Change Further Risk responsibility oversight responsibility Mitigation comment Progress made in 2015 impact from 2014 information Operational Risks Security, trespass and vandalism Acacia faces certain risks in dealing with fraud and corruption and wider Executive General Manager, EHS&S Acacias security management system provides Continuing review of Acacias security High Please security-related matters relating to trespass, vandalism, illegal mining and Organisational foranumber of measures that protect employees, modeland strategy.
see our incursions and small-scale mining in proximity to its operations and on specific Effectiveness General assets and operations.
Measures include the Sustainability Ongoing compliance programmes and areas covered by the Groups exploration and mining licences, all of which may Counsel.
ongoing development of security personnel and the review.
trainingfocused on Acacia Code of Conduct have an adverse effect upon Group operations and financialcondition.
implementation and, where appropriate, upgrading and Anti-Fraud and Anti-Corruption Policies.
of security infrastructure, such as perimeter fencing, surveillance equipment and security checks and Continuing assessment and enhancements procedures.
Where appropriate, Acacia also works tosecurity and safety controls.
incollaboration with local law enforcement to address security-related threats and concerns.
Safety risks relating to mining operations Mining and in particular underground mining is subject to a number of hazards CEO Executive General EHS&S Acacia uses a wide range of safety management Continued enhancement of safety High Please see and risks in the workplace, such as fall of ground relating to underlying Manager, Organisational systems in order to safeguard safety in the training initiatives, including the the Strategic geotechnical risks, potential fires and mobile equipment incidents.
work place and provides continuous training WeCare programme.
report and our mitigating measures implemented, such incidents may occur, which in turn and supervision on safety management in order Operating and Continued enhancement of safety mayhave adverse effects on safety in the work place.
topromote the use of safe operating practices.
Sustainability management systems and criticalrisk reviews.
standards for key material operational safetyrisks.
Continuing safety audits and inspections.
Implementation of enhanced operational systems The achievement of Acacias production and cost targets is dependent on CEO Board As part of ongoing business improvement initiatives, Enhancements made to mining High Please see theuse of optimised operational systems that allow for increased productivity Acacia is implementing various enhancements to planningreviews.
the Strategic atlower cost levels.
This includes the use of appropriate mine planning planning and operating controls, procedures and report and Ongoing development of integrated techniques with integrated financial modelling.
The use of inefficient or frameworks in order to align operating systems and our Operating mineplanning system.
redundant systems could undermine Acacias ability to achieve future techniques with production and cost expectations.
Improvements made to change productionand cost control objectives.
Continuing system audits to assess effectiveness.
Equipment effectiveness Acacias mining, processing, development and exploration activities depend CEO Board Management assesses the critical components Continuing enhancements to High Please see onthe continuing availability and reliability of operational infrastructure and ofAcacias operational equipment on a continuous maintenanceand planning practices.
Interruptions or inefficiencies in the use of operating basis.
In addition, management continues to review report and Continuing review of equipment use equipment, for example through equipment failure or disruption or through opportunities to enhance maintenance systems and our Operating requirements and equipment operating poorutilisation or maintenance practices, can undermine equipment utilisation equipment utilisation practices in order to enhance review.
levels and thereby negatively impact productivity levels.
Environmental hazards and rehabilitation Acacias operations are subject to environmental hazards as a result of the CEO Executive General EHS&S Acacia uses a number of environmental management Enhancing Acacias environmental strategy.
High Please see our processes and chemicals used in its extraction and production methods.
Manager, Organisational systems and controls across its business and Strategic report, Enhancing Acacias environmental Acaciamay be liable for losses and costs associated with environmental Effectiveness.
operations to provide for appropriate environmental and our Operating management plans.
hazardsat its operations, have its licences and permits withdrawn or suspended practices, including the adoption of specific and Sustainability Ongoing development of Buzwagi as a result of such hazards, or may be forced to undertake extensive clean-up environmental management plans for each of reviews.
and remediation action in respect of environmental hazards and incidents our operations and the use of environmental and relating to its operations, should they occur.
social impact assessments for potential projects.
Acacia also monitors mining and operational activities against key international standards, such as the International Cyanide Management Code, and assesses remediation and rehabilitation costs onanannual basis.
82 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Key Increase Decrease No change New New for 2015 Executive Leadership Team Board Board Committee Potential Change Further Risk responsibility oversight responsibility Mitigation comment Progress made in 2015 impact from 2014 information Operational Risks Security, trespass and vandalism Acacia faces certain risks in dealing with fraud and corruption and wider Executive General Manager, EHS&S Acacias security management system provides Continuing review of Acacias security High Please security-related matters relating to trespass, vandalism, illegal mining and Organisational foranumber of measures that protect employees, modeland strategy.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 83
