Principal Risks and Uncertainties IDENTIFYING, EVALUATING AND MANAGING RISK During the year the Audit Committee The responsibility for risk management THE GROUPS RISK has reviewed reports covering the internal across the Group resides with the Board.
MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The Board uses a risk framework which audit work.
This has included assessment of is designed to support the process for the general control environment, identification IS DESIGNED TO SUPPORT identifying, evaluating and managing of control weaknesses and quantification THIS PROCESS, GIVING both financial and non-financial risks.
of any associated risk together with a review of the status of actions to mitigate these risks.
VISIBILITY AND CONTROL There is an ongoing process in place OF BOTH FINANCIAL AND for identifying, evaluating and managing The Audit Committee has also received the significant risks faced by the Group, reports from management in relation to NON-FINANCIAL RISKS.
which has operated throughout the year.
specific risk items together with reports The Groups risk management framework from external auditors, who consider is designed to support this process, giving controls only to the extent necessary to visibility and control of both financial and form an opinion as to the truth and fairness non-financial risks.
This process involves of the financial statements.
The system review of the Groups risk register by the of internal control is designed to manage, Audit Committee.
In line with best practice, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to the register includes an assessment of the achieve business objectives and it must impact and likelihood of each risk together be recognised that it can only provide with the controls in place to mitigate reasonable and not absolute assurance the risk.
against material misstatement or loss.
Internal audit work is undertaken by an The directors confirm that they have carried independent organisation who develop an out a robust assessment of the principal annual internal audit plan having reviewed risks facing the company, including those the Groups risk register and following that would threaten its business model, discussions with external auditors, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
management and members of the Audit Committee.
The risks and corresponding mitigation set out below represent the principal uncertainties that the Board believes may impact the Groups ability to deliver effectively its strategy.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 26 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Continued RISKS RELATING TO THE GROUP Risk Impact Mitigating Actions Adverse publicity in relation to the Group It remains the Groups policy to ensure that we operate within the boundaries Adverse publicity in relation or its brands could have an adverse impact of compliance in the areas of legislation, health and safety and ethical working to the Group or its brands.
on the Groups reputation, consumer standards and these are regularly reviewed by the Board and management consumption patterns, sales and committee.
The Group maintains and develops ISO 9001 and 14001 systems operating profits.
which are subject to annual external audits with any non-conformances actioned in a timely manner.
Within the Group there is a clearly defined and communicated Corporate Social Responsibility Policy.
Quality standards are well defined, implemented and measured.
The Group offers a range of branded products many of which are low calorie or sugar free.
Nutritional information is shown on all of our products and we have signed up to the U. K. Governments package labelling arrangements.
The Group would be affected if there was a Assets within the Group are proactively managed whether this be intangible brand Failure or non-availability catastrophic failure of its major production assets, plant and equipment, people or IT systems.
Robust disaster recovery and of the Groups operational or distribution facilities which led to a incident management plans exist and are formally tested.
sustained loss in capacity or capability.
are in place and are regularly tested.
The maintenance and development of IT assets within the Group are proactively managed and procedures exist Failure of the Groups Information Technology systems may that support rapid and clean recovery.
Robust disaster recovery and incident Information Technology systems.
result in systems failures, including cyber management plans exist and are formally tested.
Contingency measures are security breaches which may adversely in place and are regularly tested.
impact the Groups ability to operate.
Failure to maintain the Groups intellectual The Group invests considerable effort in proactively protecting the intellectual Inability to protect the intellectual property rights could result in the value property rights associated with its current and future brands, through trademark property rights associated with of our brands being eroded.
registration and vigorous legal enforcement as and when required.
The packaging and raw material The Group adopts centralised purchasing arrangements to ensure the best possible Interruption to, or significant components that the Group uses for the terms are negotiated.
change in the terms of, the production of its soft drink products are Groups supply of packaging largely commodities that are subject to Contingency measures exist and are tested regularly.
price and supply volatility that could have an adverse impact on the Groups sales Supplier performance is reviewed on a monthly basis and audits are undertaken and operating profits.
Overall commodity risks are reviewed and managed by the purchasing and operations teams and reviewed by the Treasury Committee whose remit and authority levels are set by the Board.
Together with the operations team, the Treasury Committees remit focuses on the unpredictability of the cost of supply and seeks to minimise potential related adverse effects on the Groups financial performance through either forward purchasing or hedging known commodity requirements.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 27 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Continued RISKS RELATING TO THE GROUP CONTINUED Risk Impact Mitigating Actions The Groups activities expose it to a variety Our underlying objective is to secure budgeted exchange rates and thereby reduce Financial Risks.
of financial risks which include market risk the volatility through our cost of goods.
Financial risks are reviewed and managed including medium term movements in by the Treasury Committee whose remit and authority levels are set by the Board.
exchange rates, interest rate risk and The Treasury Committee seeks to minimise adverse effects on the Groups financial commodity price risk, credit risk and performance through hedging known currency exposures whilst reviewing the liquidity risk.
appropriateness of the interest rate hedging policy throughout the year.
The Groups finance team reviews cash flow forecasts throughout the year, with headroom against banking covenants assessed regularly.
The finance team uses external tools to assess credit limits offered to customers, manages trade receivable balances vigilantly and takes prompt action on overdue accounts.
The Groups financial control environment is subject to review by both internal and external audit.
Internal audits focus is to work with and challenge management to ensure an appropriate control environment is maintained.
A number of change programmes Appropriate governance structures are put in place to provide the required frameworks Change programmes may not designed to improve the effectiveness to supervise, monitor, control, direct and manage change programmes.
and efficiency of the end to end operating, administrative and financial systems and These structures review the scope of change programmes and related project plans processes continue to be undertaken.
and project resources, monitoring progress against set deliverables.
External support is There is a risk that these programmes will utilised when the Group is unable to support the project solely from internal resources.
not fully deliver the expected operational benefits within the timescales expected.
There is also the risk that the change programmes lead to disruption to production, administrative and financial processes and could impact customer service and or operating margins.
The triennial valuation of the Groups The Groups finance team works closely with the Pension Scheme Investment Sub Increasing funding needs defined benefit pension scheme may Committee and the Pension Trustees to ensure that an appropriate Investment or obligations in respect highlight a worsening funding position that Strategy is in place to fund future pension requirements at acceptable levels of risk.
of the Groups pension requires the Group to invest additional scheme arrangements.
cash contributions or provide further assurance to cover future liabilities.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 28 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Continued RISKS RELATING TO THE MARKET Risk Impact Mitigating Actions Failure to deliver expected return A robust initial evaluation and diligence process exists which clearly outlines Acquisition strategy fails to could affect overall performance, expectations relative to agreed rates of return and clearly identifies deliverables.
deliver expected returns via net debt level, share price, management either market performance credibility and or shareholder appetite Sensitivity analysis of the key value drivers is also undertaken.
or under attainment of for future acquisitions.
A dedicated integration and project management team is established pre-completion and a 100 day plan established against which progress is actively monitored.
Finally, a six monthly review of performance relative to the acquisition model is undertaken.
A decline in sales of key brands or The Group offers a range of brands that it manufactures and distributes through a Failure to take account of a failure to renew trading agreements cross section of trade channels and retailers.
Performance is monitored closely by changing market dynamics.
on favourable terms or reduction in the Board and management committee.
This includes monitoring and tracking of the customer base could have an metrics which review brand equity strength, together with monitoring of financial adverse impact on the Groups sales and operational performance.
The Group focuses on delivering high quality products and invests heavily in building brand equity.
Contact is maintained with all of the Groups major customers through regular sales force interaction and members of the senior management team meet with key customers throughout the year.
Consumers may decide to purchase The Group offers a range of branded products across a range of flavours, Changes in consumer and consume alternative brands or subcategories and geographies which offer choice to the end consumer.
preferences, perception spend less on soft drinks.
Changing consumer preferences are reviewed annually by the Board with reference to qualitative and quantitative research.
Spontaneous and prompted brand awareness levels are monitored in order to measure any changes in consumer knowledge of brands and or changes in brand equity strength.
Changing legislation may impact our The Group proactively engages with the relevant authorities, including the British Changes in regulatory ability to market or sell certain products or Soft Drinks Association, The Food Standards Agency and the General Counsel of requirements.
could cause the Group to incur additional Scotland to ensure full participation in the future development of and compliance costs or liabilities that could adversely with relevant legislation.
It remains the Groups policy to ensure that employees are aware of their responsibilities and all applicable regulatory requirements.
Formal training sessions are undertaken throughout the year.
An audit against changing legislative requirements is undertaken annually by the in house legal team.
Changes to legislation may vary the The impact of changes to the taxation legislation is reviewed regularly.
Potential impact of taxation levels associated with the sale taxation changes.
or consumption of soft drinks which The Group will seek to remain commercially competitive by passing on any resulting could impact sales and operating profits.
cost differential through price amendments to customers.
