Accountability Risk management and internal control systems The board has overall responsibility for setting Amec Foster Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler in 2014, work Wheelers risk appetite, and for maintaining sound risk was undertaken in the year to integrate the control framework management and internal control systems.
Responsibility for and risk and control systems with those of the wider group.
risk management activities and practices, and internal control Pursuant to section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 systems, is undertaken on behalf of the board by the audit SOX, we have carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness committee and risk committee, both of which provide reports of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and to the board on their work.
Regular reviews of the effectiveness procedures as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15 e and and adequacy of the Groups financial, operational, compliance 15d-15 e under the Exchange Act under the supervision and risk management systems are undertaken and considered and the participation of the Group Leadership Team, which by the board.
These systems can, however, only provide is responsible for the management of the internal controls, reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss, and which includes the CEO and the CFO.
There are inherent as they are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure of failure to achieve business objectives.
controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and The internal control processes are complemented by an annual procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls control self-assessment exercise carried out by the principal and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of businesses.
This covers health, safety and environment, legal, achieving their control objectives.
Based upon our evaluation commercial and contractual, financial, information technology as at 31 December 2015, we have concluded that the disclosure and human resources.
The results are reviewed by the board, controls and procedures i were effective at a reasonable level through the audit committee, as part of the ongoing internal of assurance as of the end of the period covered by this annual control monitoring process.
report in ensuring that information required to be recorded, Amec Foster Wheeler has interests in a number of joint processed, summarised and reported in the reports that arrangements where controls may not be reviewed as part are filed or submitted under the Exchange Act, is recorded, of the Groups formal corporate governance process because processed, summarised and reported within the time periods of the joint management responsibilities.
Responsibility for specified in the SECs rules and forms and ii were effective such reviews rests with the joint venture and joint operations at a reasonable level of assurance as of the end of the period boards and these are reviewed from time to time as part covered by this annual report in ensuring that information to of Amec Foster Wheelers normal internal audit process.
be disclosed in the reports that are filed or submitted under Details of the companys related undertakings can be found the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the on pages 194 to 201.
Group Leadership Team, including the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding The board and its committees have an ongoing process that is required disclosure.
reviewed regularly by the board for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by Amec Foster Wheeler, Pursuant to section 404 of SOX, under the supervision and the including strategy, major projects to be undertaken, significant participation of the Group Leadership Team, which includes the acquisitions and disposals, as well as entry into and exit from CEO and CFO, management is responsible for establishing and different markets.
This process and the associated internal maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
control systems accord with the September 2014 Financial We have carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of Reporting Council Guidance on Risk Management, Internal internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the Exchange Act based on the Internal Control Integrated Framework 2013 issued by Where appropriate, business decisions are reached following the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway a structured and documented review of potential opportunities Commission COSO.
Based on this evaluation, we have and threats, taking steps designed to manage or mitigate any concluded that our internal control over financial reporting risk exposure.
was effective as at 31 December 2015.
The threats and opportunities associated with tender Ernst & Young LLP has audited the consolidated financial submissions are reviewed by commercial review boards at statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 and has also various levels in the Group in line with the delegated authorities.
assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial Tenders that are outside the delegated authority of the business reporting.
Their attestation report can be found on page 95. units are also reviewed by the tender review committee and, in addition, tenders for entering into high-risk contracts with During the period covered by this annual report, we have an estimated revenue in excess of $750m are approved by not made any changes to our internal control over financial the board.
The most significant issues in terms of risk require reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely the approval of the relevant business unit lead and the Group to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
As a result of its ongoing involvement in and overview of risk management and internal control systems across the Group, the board is satisfied that the systems in place remain effective.
Further details of the Groups risk management process, including reporting and monitoring, and roles and responsibilities, can be found on page 18.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 57 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
