Risk factors We describe below those risks and uncertainties that we Risks associated with operating in emerging markets.
consider to be significant because their outcome may have We conduct a portion of our operations in emerging markets.
a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial Going forward, we expect that our operations will be more heavily condition, results of operations or cash flows.
We have not listed focused in the Middle East, as well as in other emerging markets, these risks and uncertainties in any particular order of priority.
such as Latin America and parts of Asia.
Our operations in these Other risks and uncertainties that are currently unknown to markets are exposed to risks that may not be encountered in us, or that are known but not currently considered by us to countries with more well-established economic and political be significant, could become apparent to us or change and systems, which include, to a greater or lesser extent, changes in therefore may ultimately have such material adverse effects.
governmental regulations, trade restrictions and laws, tariffs and other barriers, the potential for nationalisation of enterprises or Adverse global economic conditions or other macrogovernment policies favouring local production, renegotiation economic developments in the geographic regions and or nullification of existing agreements, fluctuations in interest markets in which we operate.
rates and currency exchange rates, the introduction of exchange We expect to derive the largest share of our revenue from controls and other restrictions by foreign governments, the oil & gas market with a broad exposure from upstream timeliness of client payments, differing protections for intellectual to downstream.
Over recent years the oil & gas industry has property and enforcement thereof and divergent environmental faced a number of challenges, including continuing pressure laws and regulations.
on consumer demand, costs and oil & gas prices.
As a result of the continuing nature of these challenges, many oil & gas Continuing political and social unrest in the Middle East has companies have reduced, and may reduce further, their capital had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on existing expenditure in response to market and investor pressure.
and future opportunities in the region.
In our other markets, such as clean energy, spending Changes in commodity prices may adversely impact by customers will depend on cost developments for new demand for our services.
technologies, support for government initiatives and the As a general matter, commodity prices are volatile and are availability of funding for projects: whilst demand for raw influenced by a number of external factors, including the supply materials from China may have a significant impact on mining of and demand for commodities, speculative activities by projects.
We have experienced increased competition for new market participants, global political and economic conditions, contracts and some customers have requested different, less the levels of production in major commodity-producing favourable contract terms due to these conditions.
countries and the costs of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering the commodities.
In particular, fluctuations We expect to derive the majority of our revenue from the in commodity prices related to the oil & gas, metals, mining combination of Europe, the US and Canada and will be exposed and minerals industries may adversely impact our business to the impact of global and local economic conditions affecting since they may adversely affect customer spending on capital these regions.
We may, therefore, be adversely affected if investment and asset maintenance and may result in delays economic conditions in these regions deteriorate or become or cancellation of projects.
The reduction in oil prices has adversely impacted investment Adverse or volatile economic conditions may also impact in both oil and gas production by driving international oil liquidity and the availability of credit to our customers, as companies to focus on ways in which they can be more capital well as the demands of investors for greater returns in these efficient and this may continue if oil prices remain low.
For markets, each of which may in turn influence customer example, such companies may choose to reduce overall levels spending on capital investment and or asset maintenance of upstream capital expenditure and look at options to improve and may result in delays or cancellation of projects.
the efficiency of operating expenditure.
Fluctuations in the price If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic of metals and minerals, such as gold and copper, have also and political conditions affecting the jurisdictions and markets impacted mining customer spending.
in which we operate, we may be unable to effectively plan for Such declines in the levels of customer spending as a result or respond to those changes.
of a reduction in commodity prices could negatively impact our operations.
Any delay, deferral or size reduction in our customers projects may restrict the opportunities available to us for organic growth and the achievement of our targets.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 167 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Risk factors continued Failure to meet customer expectations on project delivery Adverse changes in macro-economic, market and other conditions could result in the impairment of goodwill could result in damage to our reputation and or loss of repeat business and potentially lead to litigation.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more often if Many of the contracts which we enter into with our customers are long term and may contain liquidated damages clauses an event or circumstance indicates that it may be impaired.
Other intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever relating to on-time delivery and or liquidated damages relating to performance and or liability in respect of unliquidated there is an indication of impairment.
An impairment test is an assessment of whether the carrying amount of an asset can be damages.
A number of factors including failure to follow best practice guidelines could mean that projects are not supported by the net present value of the future cash flows that are expected to be derived from it, either by use in the business delivered to time, cost, quality or appropriate health, safety and environmental standards and therefore do not meet customer or from sale.
An impairment test requires management to make certain critical assumptions including future sales volumes, expectations or the expectations of the relevant third party.
Any failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations profit margins and long-term growth rates and to determine an appropriate discount rate to apply to the estimated cash flows.
could subject us to damages and or reduce our margins on these contracts.
Failure to meet customer expectations Other factors that may affect revenue and profitability for example, intensifying competition, pricing pressures, regulatory may also result in disputes or litigation, cancelled contracts, changes and other industry developments are also considered.
additional costs incurred in excess of current contract Discount rates are based on current yields on government provisions, or back-charges for alleged breaches of warranty bonds, the level of which may change substantially from period and other contract commitments.
to period and which may be affected by political and economic Damage to reputation or loss of repeat business as a result developments which are beyond our control.
of our failure to meet our customers expectations could An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying value of the negatively impact our ability to win new contracts in the future.
asset is not supported by net present value of the cash flows Long-term contracts may be subject to early termination, expected to be derived from it.
Whilst an impairment loss does variation or non-renewal provisions.
not in itself affect cash flows, it may be an indication that future We enter into long-term contracts with customers, which cash flows will decline.
Moreover, any significant impairment are performed over a period that may exceed two years.
in the carrying value of goodwill may indicate an associated Such contracts may be terminated earlier than expected, impairment in the related investment held by the parent either within the relevant notice periods or upon default or company.
No assurance can be given that any such future non-performance by ourselves which may result in additional impairment loss in the parent company would not affect the costs if adequate compensation is not received.
Companys distributable reserves and, therefore, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.
Projects included in our order book may be delayed or cancelled.
Changes in project scope or schedule create uncertainty as to the portion of orders that can be performed or the amount of revenue that will be recognised in any given year.
Customers may also not be able to secure the necessary financing and approvals for their projects, which could result in a delay or cancellation of the proposed project.
Even where a project proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties may default and fail to pay amounts owed.
Furthermore, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect the value of the order book.
As a result of these uncertainties, the order book may not be a reliable indicator of our future revenue or profitability.
Amec Foster Wheeler 168 Annual report and accounts 2015 Failure to comply with health, safety and environmental Lump sum contracts are more subject to unanticipated modifications, technical problems and delays.
laws may result in losses.
We are subject to numerous laws, regulations and policies Lump sum contracts carry different risks than reimbursable contracts because the selling price of the project is agreed concerning the protection of health, safety and the environment, such as those concerning the use and production based on estimates at the time the contractor enters into the contract and the contractor assumes a greater proportion of of waste and by-products considered to be hazardous under the environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which the risks associated with completing the project.
In particular, in the EPC contracts in which we engage, the contractor often we operate, including nuclear and other low-level radioactive materials, the remediation of environmental contamination, assumes the risk of variations from original contract projections due to engineering design changes or project modifications waste water and waste disposal or that otherwise relate to environmental protection.
Failure to comply with such laws, that the contractor has to make after submitting its tender.
There may also be unanticipated technical problems with regulations and policies could potentially lead to reputational damage, fines, litigation and claims for compensation, the equipment being supplied or developed by the contractor, changes in the costs of components, materials or labour, which can be substantial.
Such failure may also result in the withdrawal or suspension of licences and permits or we may difficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or approvals, changes in labour conditions and other unexpected be forced to undertake extensive remedial clean-up action or to delays or costs.
We may incur a loss on contracts that are pay for government-ordered remedial clean-up actions, even in subject to these amendments if we are unable to obtain a cases where such hazards have been caused by third parties.
variation of the contract, or are not sufficiently reimbursed for We may be subject to liabilities for environmental the costs incurred as a result of these changes or modifications.
contamination as an owner or operator or former owner We may lose key management or face difficulty in or operator of a facility, or as a generator of hazardous attracting and retaining appropriately skilled personnel.
substances, without regard to negligence or fault.
Our clean Our future success is dependent on our ability to attract and energy business is involved in providing services to operators retain key management and suitably qualified people to execute and utilities in the full lifecycle of nuclear energy, from new our projects.
Despite the change in market conditions in some build and reactor support to nuclear decommissioning and the of the markets in which we operate, there is still a scarcity of management of radioactive and hazardous materials.
We could, resources for certain key positions and ongoing competition therefore, be exposed to risks associated with the nuclear for suitably qualified and experienced personnel from other industry and the impact of nuclear regulation.
As part of any companies and organisations.
contract involving work or services at or in connection with nuclear facilities, we typically require an indemnity in respect While we may have appropriately qualified and experienced of nuclear liability from our customers.
Where an indemnity personnel, we may find it difficult to move them between is not provided, international nuclear conventions, such as the projects and regions and this could impact our ability to meet Paris Convention and the Vienna Convention, protect us against obligations under our contracts.
liability, provided that our contracting entity is registered in a Senior management departures or prolonged absences, key country which is a signatory of the relevant convention.
In cases personnel shortages and difficulties in relocating our personnel where our customers are not prepared to provide an indemnity could adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy and of this nature and no protection is provided by international manage our operations efficiently.
convention, we may be required to bear the cost of such liabilities in addition to any reputational damage.
Changes in environmental laws and regulations, remediation obligations, enforcement actions, stricter interpretations of existing requirements, future discovery of contamination or claims for damages to persons, property, natural resources or the environment could result in unanticipated material costs and liabilities.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 169 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Risk factors continued Failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and A major safety incident could lead to reputational damage and increase potential liabilities.
regulations, economic sanction programmes or other laws and regulations may result in us becoming subject to fines We are involved in activities and environments that can be dangerous and that have the potential to cause serious injury or penalties and the disruption of our business activities.
Many of the countries in which we operate have anti-corruption to personnel or damage to property or the environment.
Our projects are increasingly complex and place employees and laws and regulations that restrict the offer or payment of anything of value to government officials or other persons with others near large equipment, dangerous processes, highly regulated materials or in remote and challenging environments.
the intent of gaining business or favourable government action.
We are subject to these laws and regulations, including the US We are responsible for the safety and security of our employees travelling on company business and while working at project Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and the UK Bribery Act 2010.
Additionally, economic sanctions programmes, including sites and of third-party personnel while working at project sites under our supervision, and, accordingly, must implement those administered by the United Nations, the EU and the US Office of Foreign Asset Control, restrict our business dealings safety procedures.
Many of these regulations and Failure to comply with such procedures may cause us to be sanctions programmes establish record-keeping obligations.
subject to losses and liability under client contracts or statutory regulations.
Any failure in health and safety performance We are exposed to the risk of violating anti-corruption laws which results in a major or significant health and safety or and sanctions regulations applicable in those countries where environmental incident is likely to result in additional costs we, our partners or agents operate.
Some of the locations in in terms of potential liabilities or remediation costs.
Such which we currently operate lack a developed legal system, have failure could generate significant adverse publicity, resulting high levels of corruption and have proven to be susceptible to in employee turnover and damage to our reputation which the occurrence of fraud.
Whilst we mandate compliance with may adversely impact our ability to win new business.
relevant policies, laws and regulations including anti-corruption laws and have implemented procedures and controls to Failure or security breaches of our IT systems and or monitor internal and external compliance, there can be no data security may result in losses.
assurance that our policies and procedures will be followed We are dependent on the efficient operation of our IT systems.
at all times or will effectively detect and or prevent violations Such systems may fail and or sensitive data held by them of the applicable laws or other fraudulent activity by one or may be lost.
Information and communication systems are, more of our employees, consultants, subcontractors, agents by their nature, susceptible to internal and external security or partners.
breaches, including computer hacker and cyber terrorist breaches, employee wilful breaches and the risk of employees Violations of anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations succumbing to criminal scamming from external sources, and are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of can fail or become unavailable for a significant period of time.
export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from A significant performance failure of the Groups IT systems could government contracts and termination of existing contracts lead to loss of control over critical business, project information and revocations or restrictions of licences, as well as criminal and or systems such as design tools, contract costs, invoicing, fines and imprisonment.
In addition, any major violations of payroll management and or internal reporting, resulting in an policy, law or regulation including instances of fraud could adverse impact on the ability to operate effectively or to fulfil have a significant impact on our reputation and consequently contractual obligations.
Such failure may, in turn, lead to a loss on our ability to win future business.
of customers, revenue and profitability and the incurring of significant remedial costs.
Our operations are especially dependent on the use of internal data and customer data.
We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations relating to the collection, use and security of personal information data.
Failure to comply with such data privacy laws and regulations may result in fines, penalties, claims and reputational damage.
Additionally, if data security controls fail, there is a risk that we will unintentionally disclose protected or sensitive data, including important intellectual property, which could lead to the violation of client confidentiality agreements, reputational harm and the loss of critical data.
Amec Foster Wheeler 170 Annual report and accounts 2015 X Funding risks in relation to defined benefit pension adverse changes in the mix of claimants making allegations schemes.
X increases in indemnity payments or defence costs associated We operate a number of defined benefit pension schemes, with asbestos-related claims where careful judgement is required in determining the X assumptions for future salary and pension increases for those decreases in the proportion of claims dismissed with zero plans that are not frozen, discount rate, inflation, investment indemnity payments return and member longevity.
We expect to continue to operate X indemnity payments being required to be made sooner these schemes, although the most significant schemes are now than expected closed.
Based on our current assumptions, we expect that we will be able to fund these pension schemes without seeking X adverse fluctuations in the discount rate eg, the 30-year recourse to additional external financing.
Actual outcomes US Treasury rate used to discount the provision for could, however, differ from our assumptions.
For example, a asbestos-related claims and related insurance recoveries prolonged period of lower than expected asset returns and X adverse changes to forecasting, estimation or valuation or unexpected increases in longevity could create or worsen assumptions or methodologies whether related to potential a funding shortfall on one or more of the schemes, in which liabilities, claims and or associated costs circumstances we may agree or be required to make additional cash contributions to the schemes to eliminate the funding X payment of damages in amounts greater than expected shortfall.
If significant, such additional contributions may X adverse changes in legislative or judicial standards governing constrain our ability to invest in acquisitions or undertake the filing, handling or resolution of asbestos-related claims capital expenditure, thereby adversely impacting our growth and profitability.
Whilst certain of these claims are covered by insurance, the settlements that we made with our insurers were sometimes If the actual number and or cost to the Group of resolving for fixed monetary amounts and or provide cover only for asbestos-related claims is higher than expected, there claims made before a specified future date.
Accordingly, a may be an adverse effect on our cash flows and our results future increase in the Groups asbestos-related liabilities would to the extent that the additional cost is not covered by not result in an equivalent increase in the amount recoverable insurance, or expected insurance recoveries are not, from those insurers.
It is also possible that insurance recoveries in fact, realised.
may not be realised in full and on time or at all, due to insurer Certain of the companys subsidiaries have been named insolvency or for some other reason.
To the extent that any as defendants in numerous lawsuits and out-of-court defence and or indemnity costs incurred by us for open and administrative claims in which the plaintiffs claim damages for expected future asbestos-related claims are not covered by alleged bodily injury or death arising from exposure to asbestos insurance proceeds, we would be responsible for the payment primarily in connection with asbestos placed by others on of those costs, which would adversely affect our cash flows.
steam generating units and auxiliary equipment assembled, installed and or sold, by those subsidiaries.
In the US, certain Obligations and liabilities relating to divested former Foster Wheeler subsidiaries have received claims and non-core businesses.
alleging personal injuries due to contracting work performed We remain at risk to potential litigation and business claims by them and more rarely from exposure to asbestos-containing in relation to divested and non-core businesses where we components installed in their steam generating units and have provided customary warranties to the purchaser or have auxiliary equipment.
We expect that these subsidiaries will be continuing obligations such as to carry out environmental named as defendants in additional and or similar suits and remediation.
Where appropriate, we have made provision for that new claims will be filed in the future.
Whilst some of these these obligations but it is possible that the actual costs incurred claims have been and are expected to be made in the UK, the in settling any claims will materially exceed those provisions.
overwhelming majority have been and are expected to be made We may face risks arising out of our ongoing portfolio review.
In particular, we may be unable to find purchasers for assets We have provided for the estimated indemnity amounts and or businesses to be disposed, and we may not be able to meet defence costs that we expect to incur in relation to open and the targets associated with our disposal programme.
Activities expected future asbestos-related claims in each year in the arising from the ongoing portfolio review and any subsequent period to 2050.
We have also recognised the estimated future disposals will require additional time of key management, as recoveries under our insurance arrangements against the costs well as additional financial resources.
To the extent that we are of resolving these claims.
unable to proceed with the portfolio review and any disposals on the basis or the time frame we expect, or further management It is possible that the actual number of future claims brought or financial resources are required to carry out those activities, against us and the cost of resolving pending and future claims it may have a negative impact on the Group.
could be substantially higher than expected due to a number of factors, which include: X an increase in the rate at which new claims are filed and increases in the number of new claimants X adverse changes in the mix of diseases alleged to be suffered by the claimants Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 171 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
