Principal risks and uncertainties Reporting and monitoring The risk committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets Amec Foster Wheeler operates in more than at least twice each year to: 55 countries, serving a broad range of markets X review and advise the board on Amec Foster Wheelers risk and customers.
As such, the Group is subject appetite in relation to the principal strategic risks, taking to certain general and industry specific risks.
account of the current and prospective macro-economic, Where practicable, the Group seeks to mitigate financial, political, business and sector environments exposure to all forms of risk through effective X review and approve the risk management strategy, policies, procedures and processes risk management and risk transfer practices.
X review and report to the board on the effectiveness of the risk management systems The board has overall responsibility for risk management, for determining the risk appetite in relation to the principal risks, X review the Amec Foster Wheeler plc risk register and make for implementation of the risk management policy and for recommendations as appropriate reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management systems.
X review any new or emerging risks and any potential impact Risk management process they may have on risk appetite and the ability of Amec Foster A global mandatory procedure detailing the risk management Wheeler to manage such risks process is used at project, operating unit, business unit X review any issues raised by other committees of the board and group levels to identify the key risks that could have a that impact on the risk profile of Amec Foster Wheeler significant impact on Amec Foster Wheelers ability to achieve its objectives.
These are recorded in risk registers and evaluated X review and consider reports on key risk issues such as to determine the likely impact and probability of occurring.
new business and geographical locations for operations or projects Control actions are developed to mitigate or eliminate risks that are considered unacceptable.
Risk owners are identified X consider any internal or external risk trends and and given responsibility for ensuring actions are implemented concentrations with appropriate review dates.
The terms of reference of the risk committee have been The risk registers are reviewed and updated at least quarterly amended to reflect the requirements of the UK Corporate with the relevant risk owners.
Roles and responsibilities Board Risk oversight X ensure appropriate risk management processes are in place X ensure management is positioned to identify and respond to risk X ensure relevant information is raised to the appropriate level Chief Executive Group function heads Head of Risk risk committee Management Risk owner risk manager X participate in the identification of risk X Business unit Leadership teams Business Unit participate in the identification of risk presidents function heads Head of Commercial management action plans X Head of Project ensure action plans are implemented X Delivery monitor and report on risk status Operating unit Leadership teams Operating Unit heads function heads Head of Commercial Head of Project Risk coordinator Delivery X ensure risk management process is followed X facilitate risk management reviews X collate and issue risk management Project manager Project team Project risk owners reports registers X promote learning and consistency Amec Foster Wheeler 18 Annual report and accounts 2015 Projects Operating Business plc unit units Group internal audit Principal business and strategic risks The table below shows Amec Foster Wheelers principal business and strategic risks.
Each is specific to the Group and could have a material impact on it.
Actions have been taken to mitigate these risks and these are also shown.
Other financial risks that may impact the Group are shown on pages 136 to 141 note 19 Capital and financial risk management.
Risk Mitigation Geopolitical and economic conditions Amec Foster Wheeler seeks to maintain a balanced geographic presence Amec Foster Wheeler expects to derive the majority of its revenues from and, through acquisitions and organic growth, will continue to increase Europe, the US and Canada and is therefore particularly affected by political its exposure to other attractive regions of the world.
and economic conditions in those markets.
The risk associated with economic conditions resulting in a downturn Changes in general economic conditions may influence customers decisions and affecting the demand for Amec Foster Wheelers services has been on capital investment and or asset maintenance, which could lead to volatility addressed, as far as practicable, by seeking to maintain a balanced business in the development of Amec Foster Wheelers order intake.
These may also portfolio in terms of geographies, markets, clients and service offering lead to change in the customer base, competition and in the way customers business model.
procure the services we provide.
An increase in competition for new contracts In light of continuing global economic uncertainties, steps have been taken to may lead to different, less favourable contract terms and conditions.
assess and monitor any potential impact on Amec Foster Wheelers business Continuing and escalating unrest and insurgency activity in the Middle East opportunities and address potential increased supply chain and, more may have a negative impact on existing and future opportunities in the region.
The strategy and business development function is focused on realising the synergies across our customers, markets, geographies, service offerings and relationships.
Changes in commodity prices This risk is mitigated by maintaining a balanced business portfolio A sustained and significant reduction in oil & gas or commodity prices would of geographies, markets, clients and service offerings.
have an adverse impact on the level of customer spending in Amec Foster Improved efficiencies through increased workflow between offices Wheelers markets and consequently represents a risk to organic growth.
and the effective use of centres of excellence and HVEC.
The fall in oil prices has had an impact on the investment behaviour of Amec Foster Wheeler customers in this sector, with pressure on capital expenditure leading to a greater focus on smaller projects and operating expenditure and an increase in competition for new contracts.
Project delivery The project delivery function provides assurance, drives project execution Failing to maintain discipline and meet customer expectations on project and supports the development, training and mobilisation of personnel to delivery could result in damage to reputation, loss of repeat business and enhance execution competencies.
potentially lead to litigation and or claims against Amec Foster Wheeler.
In addition the system of globally applied policies and procedures, combined with comprehensive management oversight, the risk management process, project reviews, internal audit, peer reviews and customer feedback, mitigate the risk to successful project delivery.
Lump sum contracts This risk is mitigated by having skills and competencies fully aligned with the Lump sum contracts carry different risks than reimbursable contracts, with project scope.
It is further mitigated by having a clear, delegated authority the contractor agreeing the contract price at the start of the contract and structure in place, combined with the formal global mandatory procedures accepting the risk of cost overruns in completing the project.
relating to contracting principles and the tender review process.
In addition, the project delivery function, referred to in the project delivery risk above, performs reviews, provides assurance and drives project execution.
Staff recruitment and retention This risk is mitigated with a clear HR strategy, which is aligned to the An inability to attract and retain sufficient high-calibre employees business strategy and focused on attracting, developing and retaining the could become a barrier to the continued success and growth of best people for the Group with succession planning as appropriate.
It is Amec Foster Wheeler.
underpinned by an employee framework which describes how we manage our people consistently.
Senior management departures or prolonged absences could also adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy and manage In addition, there is a continual review of compensation and benefits to ensure our operations efficiently.
sector and geographic competitiveness and there are localised recruitment teams capable of recruiting large numbers into Amec Foster Wheeler.
Amec Foster Wheeler Academy delivers development activities to enhance delivery and prepare employees for more advanced roles.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 19 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation Health, safety, security and environment In order to control risk and prevent harm, Amec Foster Wheeler is focused on Amec Foster Wheeler is involved in activities and environments that have the achieving the highest standards of health, safety and security management.
potential to cause serious injury to personnel or damage to property or the This is achieved through setting of an effective policy and putting in place environment and damage to our reputation.
clear standards which underpin our health, safety, security and environmental management systems.
These activities may involve operations such as design, construction, commissioning and decommissioning, which have potential to cause serious We have put in place processes to assure that our systems work effectively environmental damage, pollution and habitat destruction.
throughout the organisation and health and safety performance is regularly reviewed against agreed targets to facilitate continual improvement.
Amec Foster Wheeler employs environmental and engineering specialists to support projects in implementing comprehensive project management planning at all stages of a project.
These processes are governed by appropriate quality management systems and are supported by risk identification tools aimed at identifying and managing all aspects of project environmental risk.
Environmental licences Environmental management systems are in place to monitor and mitigate Amec Foster Wheelers build own operate facilities and fabrication this risk.
manufacturing sites rely on maintaining environmental licences to operate, Planned preventative maintenance schedules are in place to further mitigate which includes protecting the environment and achieving legally enforceable this risk.
Failure to maintain these standards may result in the revocation of all or part of the licence and the suspension of operation, resulting in criminal or civil action and or financial risk to the business.
Failure to maintain assets and or pollution abatement equipment may result in a failure to meet legally binding objectives and targets for the operation.
Information technology IT Appropriate controls are in place to mitigate the risk of systems failure and Amec Foster Wheeler is exposed to the risk that the IT systems on which it data loss, including systems back-up procedures, data security breach relies fail and or that sensitive data held by the Group is lost due to ineffective response plan, disaster recovery plans and globally distributed data data governance or as a result of unauthorised access to Amec Foster centres providing a secure and reliable environment for hosting critical Wheeler systems or malware attacks.
There is also appropriate virus protection, malware detection and remediation, network security controls and penetration testing and encryption of mobile devices.
Ethical breach Amec Foster Wheeler has a number of measures in place to mitigate A substantive ethical breach and or non-compliance with laws or regulations the risk of a substantive ethical breach and or non-compliance with could potentially lead to damage to Amec Foster Wheelers reputation, fines, laws or regulations, including: litigation and claims for compensation.
X embedded policies and procedures X Code of Business Conduct X segregation of duties X management oversight X financial and operational controls X independent whistle-blowing mechanism X appointment of ethics and compliance officers X anti-fraud and other internal audits X legal team advice X training programmes supporting the Code of Business Conduct and anti-bribery and corruption X oversight by the ethics committee of the board now the HSSEE committee see pages 63 and 64 Pensions This risk to Amec Foster Wheelers pension schemes is mitigated by: Amec Foster Wheeler operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes, X maintaining a relatively strong funding position over time where careful judgement is required in determining the assumptions for future salary and pension increases, discount rate, inflation, investment X taking advice from independent qualified actuaries and other returns and member longevity.
There is a risk of underestimating this liability.
professional advisers X agreeing appropriate investment policies with the trustees X close monitoring of changes in the funding position, with reparatory action agreed with the trustees in the event that a sustained deficit emerges See note 14 on page 128 for further details on our pension schemes.
Amec Foster Wheeler 20 Annual report and accounts 2015 Risk Mitigation Legacy risks The established legacy team manages these claims with internal and external Litigation and business claims from divested and non-core businesses remain legal advice.
The aim is to seek cost-effective management of litigation and a risk to Amec Foster Wheeler.
promote commercially sensible settlements where appropriate.
Managing non-core legacy assets until divestment may require skills that are Amec Foster Wheeler has made provisions for the legacy issues that are not common to the rest of the Company.
believed to be adequate and is not aware of any other current issues relating to disposed businesses which are likely to have a material impact.
Specialist Ground contaminants remain at some former Amec Foster Wheeler teams with the appropriate knowledge are brought in as required.
operational localities where the pollutant may have been as a result of the Companys operations, or the Company is responsible for its clean-up.
In the case of any known contaminated land, strategies have been developed There is a risk that pollution may result in a risk to human health or the to minimise the risk posed by such contaminated land, including asset environment.
There is potential for civil and or criminal action against the management and land remediation projects and they remain under Company for such pollutants.
Asbestos liability There is a dedicated in-house finance and legal resource including a team The legacy Foster Wheeler business is exposed to significant numbers of specialist asbestos lawyers who manage the claims, assisted by National of claims relating to alleged exposure to asbestos.
The quantum of these Co-ordinating Counsel NCC and local counsel.
A claims strategy has been claims is actuarially forecast each year and provisions are held against these developed with the NCC and regular reviews are undertaken.
However there is a risk that these loss projections will be The team monitors legal developments in these claims and the strategy exceeded and the provisions could be inadequate to meet the liabilities.
to deal with them on a regular basis.
The quantum of these claims is actuarially forecast each year and provisions are held against the ultimate loss projections.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of The UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014 revision the directors have performed a robust assessment of the principal risks detailed on pages 19 to 21 for the next three years and have concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that Amec Foster Wheeler will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over this three-year period.
The directors have selected a three-year period for this assessment, in line with the three-year business planning process and this also reflects the average duration of the larger customer contracts entered into by the Company.
In making this assessment the directors have taken into account the Companys current trading performance and prospects, the stated strategy concerning the review of underperforming assets and the boards appetite for risk.
The Company refinanced its banking facilities in early March 2016 and the assessment confirms that we are compliant with the covenants and undertakings contained within these new facilities over the three-year period.
The approach adopted for this assessment was a detailed review of the principal risks by a senior management team with representatives from finance, commercial, legal, tax and treasury, strategy, internal audit and risk to consider which of these risks might threaten the Groups viability.
The assessment of these risks included modelling them in severe but plausible scenarios taking account of: X varying impacts of specific risks across business units or market sectors as appropriate X any potential risk interdependencies X the risk mitigation measures currently in place The analysis of the principal risks has been weighted towards downside risk and a sensitivity analysis has been used to stress test the risk events most likely to negatively impact the company.
Specific scenarios have been tested and include: X a further fall in oil prices, increasing pressure on customer spending and impacting prospects for future projects X project delivery failure resulting in delayed payments, settlement payments, reputational damage and reduced future work X risk of cost overruns on lump sum contracts X a substantive ethics breach and or non-compliance with laws or regulation which could result in reputational damage, fines, litigation and claims for compensation X a serious environmental incident causing third party damage and or injury and reputational damage Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 21 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review
