STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY Byron Grote AngloAmericans assessment Chairman, Audit Committee of strategic, operational, project 1 2 2 and sustainable development related risks 4 3 1.
Identifying risks Anglo American recognises that risk is inherent A robust methodology is used to identify key risks across the Group: at business units, operations and projects.
This is being applied in all its business activities.
Our risks can have consistently through the development and ongoing implementation of a Group integrated risk management standard.
a financial, operational or reputational impact.
Analysing risks and controls to manage identified risks As understanding our risks and developing Once identified, the process will evaluate identified risks to establish root causes, financial and non-financial impacts and likelihood of appropriate responses are critical to our future occurrence.
Consideration of risk treatments is taken into account to enable the creation of a prioritised register and in determining success, we are committed to an effective, which of the risks should be considered as a principal risk.
robust system of risk identification and an 3.
Determining management actions required Effectiveness and adequacy of controls are assessed.
If effective response to such risks to support additional controls are required, these will be identified and responsibilities assigned.
the achievement of our objectives.
Reporting and monitoring Management is responsible for monitoring progress of actions to mitigate key risks and determine if the risk is operating within the limits of our risk appetite.
Management is supported through the Groups internal audit programme, which evaluates the design and effectiveness of controls.
The risk management process is continuous: key risks are reported to the Audit Committee, with sustainability risks also being reported to the Sustainability Committee.
HOW DOES RISK RELATE TO OUR The Group will undergo a significant transition over the STRATEGIC ELEMENTS?
The viability statement is aligned with completion of that transition.
Risks can arise from events outside of our control or from operational matters.
Each of the risks described on the The directors assessment has been made with reference following pages can have an impact on our ability to achieve to the Groups current position and prospects, including the our strategic elements: impact of the proposed restructuring and the expected disposal proceeds and a robust analysis of its principal risks.
Where we compete: optimising and streamlining Assessment of financial performance and cash flows, our portfolio: including debt repayment, has been performed over the How we win: maximising our performance: three year period using budgeted commodity prices and foreign exchange rates.
Financial performance and cash Critical core skills: creating a capable organisation.
flows have then been subjected to stress and sensitivity analysis over the three year period, using a range of VIABILITY STATEMENT conservative commodity prices and foreign exchange rates.
The directors confirm that they have a reasonable We have then considered the severe but plausible financial expectation that the Group will continue in operation and impact of other risks the Group faces, combining certain meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next three years.
different principal risks and other significant risks faced by This period has been selected for the following reasons: the Group under a number of different scenarios modelled over the three year period.
The Groups strategy and budgeting process is aligned with a three-year view: Our assumptions in making the viability statement primarily relate to the financial impacts of our principal risks and our The current volatility in commodity markets makes mitigation of those risks.
confidence in a longer assessment of prospects highly challenging: and 40 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS AT A GLANCE 1 Commodity prices 2 Political and regulatory SIGNIFICANT HIGH 1 3 Organisation change 4 Portfolio restructuring MEDIUM 2 5 Minas-Rio 6 South Africa power 7 Safety 7 3 4 5 6 8 11 Catastrophic risks LOW 8 11 Position of arrow indicates Impact movement of risk since 2014 PRINCIPAL RISKS RISK APPETITE We define a principal risk as a risk or combination of We define risk appetite as the nature and extent of risk risks that would threaten the business model, future Anglo American is willing to accept in relation to the pursuit performance, solvency or liquidity of Anglo American.
We look at risk appetite from the context In addition to these principal risks we continue to be of severity of the consequences should the risk materialise, exposed to other risks related to currency, inflation, any relevant internal or external factors influencing the risk information and cyber security, community relations, and the status of management actions to mitigate the environment, infrastructure and human resources.
A scale is used to help determine the limit of appetite risks are subject to our normal procedures to identify, for each risk, recognising that risk appetite will change implement and oversee appropriate mitigation actions.
Principal risks 17 on pages 4244 If a risk exceeds appetite, it will threaten the achievement of objectives and may require a change to strategy.
Risks that are approaching the limit of the Groups risk appetite may CATASTROPHIC RISKS require management actions to be accelerated or enhanced We also face certain risks that we deem catastrophic risks.
in order to ensure the risks remain within appetite levels.
These are very high severity, very low likelihood events that F urther details on the risk management and internal control systems and the could result in multiple fatalities or injuries, an unplanned review of their effectiveness are provided on pages 8081 fundamental change to strategy or the way we operate, and have significant financial consequences.
We do not consider likelihood when assessing these risks as the potential impacts mean these risks must be treated as a priority.
Catastrophic risks are included as principal risks.
Catastrophic risks 811 on pages 4445 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 41 Likelihood STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY continued 1.
COMMODITY PRICES Pillars of value: Global macro-economic conditions Impact: Low commodity prices can result This risk has increased since 2014 leading to sustained low commodity in weakened levels of cash flow, profitability prices and or volatility.
Debt costs may rise owing Risk appetite: Operating outside the to rating agency downgrades and the limits of our appetite and mitigation actions Root cause: The most significant factors possibility of restricted access to funding.
contributing to this risk at present are the The Group may be unable to complete its slowdown in growth in China and other Commentary: Current economic divestment programme within the desired emerging markets, low growth rates in conditions are having a negative impact on timescales or achieve expected values.
developed economies and an oversupply commodity prices and represent the biggest The capability to invest in growth projects of commodities into the market, particularly immediate threat to Anglo Americans is limited during periods of low commodity the raw materials such as iron ore and financial performance.
We have announced prices which may, in turn, affect future metallurgical coal used in steel making.
significant portfolio changes see pages performance.
Other factors such as weak regional 1619 as a response to commodity economies and conflict can also influence Mitigation: High levels of liquidity will price risk.
the economic environment and contribute be maintained during the current cycle.
An organisation change programme incorporating cost reductions, continued roll-out of the Operating Model, reductions in capital expenditure and the divestment of certain assets is under way.
The Board regularly monitors progress of these actions.
POLITICAL AND REGULATORY Pillars of value: No change in risk Uncertainty and adverse changes to Impact: Uncertainty over future business mining industry regulation, legislation or conditions leads to a lack of confidence in Risk appetite: Operating within the limits tax rates can occur in any country in making investment decisions, which can of our appetite.
Increased costs can be incurred through Commentary: Current global economic Root cause: The Group has no control over additional regulations or resource taxes, conditions have a significant impact on political acts or changes in local tax rates.
while the ability to execute strategic countries whose economies are exposed Our licence to operate through mining rights initiatives that reduce costs or divest to the downturn in commodities, placing is dependent on a number of factors assets may also be restricted: all of greater pressure on governments to find including compliance with regulations.
which may reduce profitability and affect alternative means of raising revenues, and future performance.
Political stability can increase the risk of social and labour unrest.
also result in civil unrest or nullification of These factors could increase the political existing agreements, mining permits or risks faced by the Group.
These may adversely affect the Groups operations or results of those operations.
Mitigation: Anglo American has an active engagement strategy with the governments and regulators within the countries in which we operate or plan to operate.
We assess portfolio capital investments against political risks and avoid or minimise exposure to jurisdictions with unacceptable risk levels.
We actively monitor regulatory and political developments on a continuous basis.
Pillars of value: Safety and Health Socio-political Production Financial Environment People Cost 42 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report 3.
ORGANISATION CHANGE Pillars of value: No change in risk Failure to accelerate and deliver the Impact: Weakened levels of investor organisation change programme confidence, a decreased company valuation Risk appetite: Operating within the limits will lead to a loss of shareholder and reputational damage are possible of our appetite.
confidence in the ability to transform outcomes if this risk materialises.
Weaker Anglo American and result in a cash flows, lower levels of profitability and Commentary: The organisation change reduced valuation.
debt rating downgrades, with a resultant programme incorporates redesign of increased cost of debt and possibly reduced corporate functions, implementation of Root cause: The urgency to deliver access to financing, could also occur should the Operating Model, capital expenditure change is high, but constraints exist in this risk materialise.
Employee morale and reviews, delivery of the marketing strategy different geographies, including retention of key skills may also be affected.
Non-delivery employment regulations and political is deemed a principal risk in its own right as factors that may delay timing and delivery Mitigation: Progress has been achieved it is a critical component of the response to of the organisation change.
in all the various actions associated with the weak commodity prices.
Mechanisms are in place to monitor progress, identify constraints to implementation, and to measure the benefits delivered.
The Board regularly reviews the progress of these initiatives.
PORTFOLIO RESTRUCTURING Pillars of value: Inability to divest assets in the timeframe Impact: Weakened levels of cash flow, No change in risk required and or for expected value.
reduced profitability and a resultant negative impact on the valuation of Anglo American Risk appetite: Operating within the limits Root cause: Current economic conditions, may result, along with an inability to reduce of our appetite.
particularly in commodity markets, are debt and improve financial performance.
reducing the number of potential asset Commentary: Progress was made during Any credit rating agency downgrade may acquirers and are affecting the value that 2015, following the successful divestment increase the cost of debt, while an inability can be obtained.
Completion of transactions of the Lafarge Tarmac stake and the to deliver portfolio changes could result can be complex, and involve numerous Anglo American Norte assets which, in loss of investor confidence and stakeholders such as regulators, together, delivered $1.9 billion in gross reputational damage.
government, joint venture partners, proceeds.
In addition, the proposed sale employees and local communities and Mitigation: The divestment process of Anglo American Platinums Rustenburg each may have different expectations.
involves comprehensive stakeholder mining and concentrating operations to engagement and initiatives to generate Sibanye was announced in September.
The Board regularly monitors Non-delivery is deemed a principal risk in progress of individual transactions.
its own right as it is a critical component of the response to weak commodity prices.
MINAS-RIO Pillars of value: Delay in obtaining the operating licence Impact: Inability to achieve planned This risk has increased since 2014 extension and inability to achieve production and revenues and or reductions production targets during ramp-up.
in the cost of production.
This may also Risk appetite: Operating within the limits result in loss of investor confidence and of our appetite.
Root cause: Production has been impacted reputational damage.
by water availability due to reduced rainfall.
Commentary: An extension to the Increased regulatory scrutiny for the licence Mitigation: A comprehensive operating licence has been requested and extension can be expected as a result of a stakeholder engagement plan is in place to is expected to be delivered by September major tailings dam incident involving loss manage the licence extension and actions 2016.
The process to extend the licence of life at a competitor facility in Brazil in are being taken to address the ramp-up through to December 2022 has also started November, while there is also the continuing risks identified.
and risks to achieving that extension have need to manage community issues.
Risks to the production may delay completion of the civil works ramp-up have also been assessed, including associated with the mines development.
optimisation of the flotation plant and Delays in obtaining licences are causing water availability.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 43 STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY continued 6.
SOUTH AFRICA POWER Pillars of value: Electricity supply not able to meet the Impact: Unplanned and short-notice power This risk has increased since 2014 countrys demands, leading to unplanned supply outages can lead to production outages and failure of the national grid.
shortfalls, with a negative effect on revenue, Risk appetite: Operating within the limits costs and productivity.
There are potential of our appetite.
Root cause: Anglo American is a safety implications, particularly for significant consumer of power owing to Commentary: Installed generation capacity underground mines and process activities.
the extent of our operations in South Africa.
is not operating at 100%, particularly during Loss of critical computing systems can The risk is created through the states lack summer months, leaving the system interrupt normal business activities.
of investment in generating capacity and a vulnerable, with any supply shortfalls maintenance backlog in some generating Mitigation: Daily interactions are held with requiring national load-shedding and or facilities, leading to unplanned outages.
senior management of the state-owned curtailment.
Significant improvements are power supplier to understand short and long not expected in the near term.
Business units have emergency generation capability for deep level shafts and procedures are in place to minimise disruption.
SAFETY Pillars of value: Failure to deliver a sustained Impact: Loss of life, workplace injuries and No change in risk improvement in safety performance.
safety-related stoppages all immediately impact production: while, over the longer Risk appetite: Operating within the limits Root cause: Inability to deliver a sustained term, such factors are also a threat to our of our appetite.
improvement in safety performance will licence to operate.
result from a failure of management Commentary: Senior management interventions and training initiatives to Mitigation: A continued, relentless focus continues to treat safety risk management translate into behavioural change by all on safety improvement and safety risk as its top priority.
In 2015, lost-time injuries employees and contractors.
management is adopted by executive decreased, excluding Platinum, compared management.
Operating standards and with the prior year, demonstrating continued guidelines are in place to mitigate safety risk, progress in reducing workplace injuries.
supported by robust risk management and Six people lost their lives at Anglo Americans risk assurance processes.
managed operations during 2015, the same number as in 2014.
TAILINGS DAM FAILURE Pillars of value: A release of waste material leading Impact: Potential for multiple fatalities and No change in risk to loss of life, injuries, environmental injuries, long term environmental damage, damage, reputational damage, financial significant reputational damage and loss of Risk appetite: Operating within the limits costs and production impacts.
The financial impact of our appetite.
associated with clean-up costs and legal Root cause: Tailings dam failures can result Commentary: Tailings dam failure is liability claims could be substantial.
from over-topping, poor operating practices, considered a catastrophic risk i. e. a very instability of pit slopes, inadequate design and Mitigation: Anglo American employs high severity but very low frequency event construction, or seismic events.
technical standards that provide minimum that must be treated with the highest priority.
design criteria and operational performance requirements: all of which are regularly inspected by technical experts.
Assurance work is conducted to monitor the controls associated with management of tailings dam facilities.
Pillars of value: Safety and Health Socio-political Production Financial Environment People Cost 44 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report 9.
SLOPE WALL FAILURE Pillars of value: A sudden and unexpected failure Impact: Potential for multiple fatalities or No change in risk of a slope causing landslides and injuries, significant production impact and inrush to pit or other asset such as damage to assets.
Financial costs associated Risk appetite: Operating within the limits a pipeline, leading to loss of life, with recovery and legal claims may be of our appetite.
Regulatory issues may result Commentary: Slope wall failure is reputational damage, financial costs and community relations may be affected.
considered a catastrophic risk i. e. a very and production impacts.
Mitigation: Technical standards exist high severity but very low frequency event Root cause: Slope wall failure can result that provide minimum criteria for slope that must be treated with the highest priority.
from inadequate design, unexpected stability design and operation.
Monitoring adverse geological conditions, shortcomings of slope movement is conducted at all in the mining process, or natural events such open pit operations.
Inspections and training as seismic activity or excessive rainfall.
and awareness programmes are provided by technical experts, and assurance work is conducted to assess the effectiveness of controls.
MINESHAFT FAILURE Pillars of value: A sudden and unexpected failure of Impact: Multiple fatalities and injuries, No change in risk a mineshaft.
damage to assets, production loss and reputational damage.
Financial costs Risk appetite: Operating within the limits Root cause: There are 23 vertical shafts associated with recovery and liability of our appetite.
in our Platinum and Coal business units.
Mineshaft failure can occur as a result of Commentary: Mineshaft failure is rope failure, fire and explosion in a shaft, Mitigation: Technical standards exist that considered a catastrophic risk i. e. a very flooding, power failure, mud rush, provide minimum criteria for mineshaft high severity but very low frequency event conveyance failure or structural failure.
Inspections are carried out that must be treated with the highest priority.
by technical experts and assurance work is conducted to assess the effectiveness of controls.
FIRE AND OR EXPLOSION Pillars of value: Fire and explosion risks are present at Impact: Multiple fatalities and injuries, No change in risk all mining operations and processing damage to assets, loss of production, facilities such as smelters and refineries reputation damage and loss of licence Risk appetite: Operating within the limits in our Platinum, Copper and Nickel to operate.
Financial costs associated of our appetite.
with recovery and liability claims may Commentary: Fire and explosion is be significant.
Root cause: The combined presence of considered a catastrophic risk i. e. a very fuel, heat and oxygen, as well as conditions Mitigation: Technical standards exist high severity but very low frequency event that can lead to the concentration and that provide minimum criteria for prevention that must be treated with the highest priority.
confinement of these elements, can cause of underground explosions and fire.
an explosion including gas, coal dust Inspections are carried out by technical particularly in underground mines, experts and assurance work is conducted sulphide dust or furnace gas explosions.
to assess the effectiveness of controls.
Third party reviews of fire risk are conducted at each location where significant risk is present.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 45
