ARM Strategic Report 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Commitment Financials 35 Risk management Identifying and managing risks ARM has a robust risk management and internal Risk appetite The CRR is monitored by the Risk Review Internal audit assurance control process in place to identify key risks: Committee, chaired by Mike Muller, Chief Determining the Groups willingness to take on ARMs Internal Audit function develops an annual assign ownership for each risk at a senior Technology Officer.
The Risk Review Committee risk its risk appetite is the starting point of an audit plan to provide assurance that the risk management level: identify both existing and meets on a quarterly basis to review the CRR.
effective risk management and review process.
management activities identied to mitigate risks planned management activities to mitigate each Each risk owner is required to review and ARMs risk appetite differs across the activities that are designed and operating effectively and that risk: assess the residual likelihood and impact of demonstrate that risks are being appropriately are necessary to maintain and grow our business.
corrective action is being taken where necessary.
each risk: and ensure ongoing monitoring and managed.
A more detailed explanation of the Risk The most important elements for ARM are our reporting of each key risk.
Review Committees activities is included in the people and systems to develop new technologies and ARMs principal risks and uncertainties Governance and Financial Report 2015 on pages products, our ecosystem, our brand and reputation, ARMs strategy is to develop and deploy energyAt a strategic level, our risk management objectives 12 to 14.
The Audit Committee is responsible for and compliance and regulatory matters.
In these efficient technology: to enable innovation through are to: overseeing the risk management framework and areas we have a low appetite for risk, and the Group a broad ecosystem of Partners, building on our ensuring that the risk review process is operating has more internal controls and processes to minimise shared success: and to create superior returns for Identify ARMs most significant strategic and effectively.
The Executive Committee and the Board the probability or impact of a risk occurring.
our shareholders by investing in long-term growth.
operational risks review the CRR on a regular basis.
ARMs principal risks may impede ARMs progress in Risk review process executing this strategy.
The table on the next page Develop plans to manage the risks identied, Strategic and operational risks are identied, shows ARMs principal risks and which element of witha clear owner assigned to each risk prioritised and reported on within the Corporate the strategy each could impact.
Ensure that business growth plans are Risk Register CRR.
The CRR includes a description properly supported by an effective risk of the overall risk, the risk factors, therisk owner Viability statement management infrastructure and the risk management activities, including In assessing the Groups prospects and resilience, The Groups strategic plan covers a five year Help executives improve the control and operational and oversight activities as dened in the the directors considered the Groups current period, over which the directors have made co-ordinationof risk taking across the business three lines of defence model.
Residual risks are business position and risk appetite.
The conclusions assumptions regarding the Groups revenues, assessed in terms of likelihood and impact on the were stress-tested by analysing the principal risks to Ensure that ARMs assurance activities are focused operating costs, dividends, cash requirements and basis that the risk management activities assigned to the Groups business model, performance, solvency on the organisations key risks capital structure.
A five year planning period is them are operating effectively and an overall RAG and liquidity see pages 36 to 39.
The directors appropriate because of the duration of the Groups Ensure that the Board has a current understanding Red, Amber, Green rating is generated, taking believe the principal risks to viability are: a shift product development cycle see pages 24 to 25. of the risks in the business, the plans to the risk appetite statement into account where in industry practice risk 1, the risk posed by the mitigate those risks and the status of those appropriate.
Plans to monitor and mitigate individual success of a major competitor risk 2, and risks The projections for the first three years of the plan mitigation efforts risks are then included within the relevant objectives to reputation risk 7, since crystallisation of these are based on current licensing opportunities and of the Groups operations and functions.
Risks are risks would have the potential to damage the foreseeable royalty revenues.
There is inherently Strategic risks are managed through a number identied through senior management discussion Groups financial position.
less certainty in the projections for years four and of regular forums where key risks are discussed top down and regular reporting from every part five.
The directors have therefore determined and existing management activities challenged.
Based on this assessment and the mitigating that three years is an appropriate period for the These include regular sessions with both the Board actions described, the directors have a reasonable viability statement.
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due Operational risks are managed in accordance with over the period to December 2018. the ARM Management System AMS, which defines internal controls across the organisation.
ARM has a The three lines of defence model is a widely used number of internal controls and processes in place to methodology for monitoring, evaluating and improving risk management effectiveness.
provide assurance on compliance with the AMS.
36 ARM Strategic Report 2015 Risk management continued Key Principal Primary strategic Change A change in the industry business risks areas affected in 2015 1 Gain share in long-term growth markets dynamic may lead to loss of A change in the industry 1 businessdynamic may lead to Increase value of ARM technology in smart devices market share and or reduction lossof market share and or reduction invalue of IP Generate new revenue streams from adjacent markets invalue of IP Invest for the long term A competitors product or 2 Not materially changed technology may lead to loss ofmarket share Risk materially increased We work in the highly competitive and fast-moving semiconductor industry.
Many companies within this industry are well resourced Risk materially decreased and may consider processor and physical IP as attractive markets ARM may face challenges for them to enter.
Start ups and open source technology initiatives 3 managing its business in new could develop alternative ways for companies to design their chips.
geographic markets The cost of developing software is increasing in many end markets, which may also result in new technologies that might not suit ARMs current product portfolio or skill set.
We may not be able to adapt ARMs technology may not to these changes, resulting in a loss of market share.
4 meetcustomer requirements inthe future 8 significant concentration in our 5 customer base may increase the risk to ARMs growth ambitions Mitigation ARM has over 420 Partners, and more than 1,000 companies in its 2 ecosystem.
Each company utilises ARM technology in parts of their 1 7 9 6 ARMs current people, processes business, and we meet with leading companies within our industry and 6 and or infrastructure may not be related sectors to discuss their business context and strategy.
ARM is 5 adequately scalable to meet our well positioned to detect any change within the semiconductor industry growth ambitions and act accordingly.
ARMs management team reviews our strategy and our long-term product development plans to test that we are We could suffer significant developing the technology to meet the future needs of the industry.
7 damage to our brand and reputation 3 4 Change in 2015 ARM has gained share in key markets such as networking LOW MEDIUM HIGH ARM may have to defend itself infrastructure and the Internet of Things, and retained a high share of 8 against third parties who claim Impact application processors in smart mobile devices such as smartphones.
that we have infringed their Competition from well-nanced companies has continued.
One area of proprietary rights competition is for the main applications processor in the tablet market, All of the principal risks and uncertainties are regularly and in 2015 ARMs share of this market increased to 90%, up from reviewed.
In the view of the Risk Review Committee none had Fundamental assumptions that 85%in 2014.
9 underpin ARMs valuation may be changed signicantly in the past year, and so the classications undermined, leading to a sudden above are unchanged.
depreciation of share price Likelihood LOW MEDIUM HIGH ARM Strategic Report 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Commitment Financials 37 A competitors product or ARM may face challenges ARMs technology may not 2 3 4 technology may lead to loss managing its business in new meet customer requirements ofmarket share geographic markets inthe future ARM faces competition both from large semiconductor companies Chinese semiconductor companies have become responsible for The technology industry is characterised by rapid change, as new and from smaller IP companies.
an increasingly significant proportion of ARMs revenues, and we innovation continually improves the way that chips are designed expect that proportion to continue to grow.
India has had a strong and manufactured, how they are deployed by OEMs and how they Intel is developing x86-based processors for use in PCs and semiconductor presence for many years, although revenues from are used by consumers.
A change in the end market that does servers, and is looking to deploy these chips in markets such that region are smaller.
ARM has little knowledge and experience not favour ARM or our business model could occur, requiring as tablets, mobile phones and embedded markets, including of the markets in Russia, South America and Africa, which have ARM either to change its investment approach or risk losing the Internet of Things.
There are many small semiconductor IP different political and regulatory cultures to the markets in which share.
Either way, ARM could become less profitable in the future companies competing with ARM, especially in emerging markets, we are established.
In these regions, local governments are asaresult of such a market change.
such as the Internet of Things where there are lower barriers supporting and funding local technology companies, which could to entry.
giverise to new competitors and new markets.
Any success by our competition would result in a reduction in royalty revenue to ARM.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation ARM works closely with leading semiconductor companies who ARM has had offices in both China and India for many years, and ARM has well-established processes for product specication and together have a long history of developing cost-efficient, low-power 19% ofour workforce is split between these two countries.
We have development, and we work with thought-leaders within various chips.
It has developed into a highly competitive market and OEMs have regional development offices to support the other regions, and industries to ensure our technology is suitable for next-generation enjoyed a wide choice of chips with different capabilities and pricing.
combined with regular visits by management, we track opportunities digital products.
We spend some of our R&D budget on long-term ARMs established ecosystem includes many software and chip design and meet local decision makers.
programmes to investigate how new scientific developments might engineers who understand how to build ARM-based chips and write impact the industry, and how technologies in adjacent markets might software optimised for ARM processors.
ARM invests in this ecosystem impact ARM and our ecosystem.
to help further reduce the total cost of developing and maintaining a portfolio of ARM-based chips.
Change in 2015 Change in 2015 Change in 2015 During 2015, ARMs Partners announced advanced new chips based on ARM grew its headcount in Asia including India by around 20% ARMs latest processor architecture is now widely adopted, and in our latest ARMv8-A processors for a wide range of markets including in 2015 and, in China, launched the ARM Innovation Ecosystem 2015 was deployed in around 50% of smartphones shipped, and also smartphones, tablets, consumer electronics, networking infrastructure Accelerator to provide a facility for companies to collaborate together into consumer electronics and networking infrastructure products.
Competitors have announced new alternative processors to create products for the Internet of Things.
Industry regulators in ARM introduced several new products during the year, all of which and chip designs.
In 2015, these saw limited adoption in smartphones some regions have become more actively engaged with domestic and licensed within expectations.
We continued to track marketplace and some adoption in tablets, in the future they may be able to increase foreigntechnology companies which can have uncertain outcomes.
developments by working with thought-leaders within the industry, share across all markets.
We have also seen competitors make strategic andin adjacent markets.
acquisitions and ecosystem investments that may help them gain share in ARMs target markets.
38 ARM Strategic Report 2015 Risk management continued significant concentration in our ARMs people, processes We could suffer significant damage 5 6 7 customer base may increase the and or infrastructure may not to our brand and reputation risk to ARMs growth ambitions be adequately scalable to meet ourgrowth ambitions Changes in technology trends and or economic conditions may We have grown our headcount rapidly over the last few years, as ARMs technology is used in billions of consumer and enterprise cause further consolidation of companies in the semiconductor we have hired more engineers to develop the next generation of products, many of which are depended on by individuals and sector, thereby reducing the number of customers that ARM may processors and the supporting technology that our customers need.
businesses, and are used to store, manage or transmit huge sell its technology to and potentially making ARM more dependent If this growth rate continues we may nd our existing organisational amounts of personal, condential or proprietary information.
on a smaller number of customers.
Any change to the product plans structure, culture and infrastructure cannot be adapted to meet the A fault or bug associated with one of ARMs products could damage of a major customer may have an impact on the technology that greater number of staff.
ARMscorporate reputation and lead to a loss of brand value.
ARM develops, and so result in both additional costs and adelay ARMs technology is becoming increasingly complex, which could in revenues.
increase the likelihood of a fault or bug.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation We have licensed our processor technology to over 420 Partners, Our multi-year planning process includes product development ARM continues to invest in the verication and validation of its about half of whom are now paying royalty revenues.
Much of our reviews alongside long-term investment plans for recruitment, training, technology.
ARM has rigorous quality assurance and verication and royalty and licence revenues are generated by the top 20 semiconductor facilities and IT.
We also hold regular surveys of employees to measure validation processes to reduce the risk of faults or bugs.
ARM typically develops multiple processors each year, job satisfaction and engagement levels across the organisation, and in gathers feedback from its customers and Partners to determine reducing the impact of a customer deciding not to license aparticular sufficient detail to identify early problems with specic teams, locations whether the perception of ARM is changing, and ensure that corrective product.
We are also signing more licences with OEMs, who normally or departments.
action can be taken early if customers are becoming less satisfied with buy chips from our customers, but in some cases are now developing our products or behaviour.
Change in 2015 Change in 2015 Change in 2015 In 2015, we saw consolidation amongst some of our customers, and ARM hired net 568 engineers and 113 supporting staff in 2015, and In 2015, ARM initiated functional safety assessments for new products we saw some companies exit the mobile market.
This consolidation we acquired four companies who have provided technologies and which may be deployed in safety critical systems.
This will help has resulted in fewer, larger customers, and so an increase in the level teams that will help develop the next generation of ARM products.
ensure that our technology is suitable for use in automotive and of potential risk.
At the same time, ARM signed 41 new customers To mitigate any integration risk the engineering and functional teams aerospace applications.
mainly in fast-growing markets such as microcontrollers and the have plans and processes to speed the combination of the acquired Internet of Things.
In 2015, 71% of ARMs revenue came from teams into ARM.
In addition, we have continued to develop our , up from 65% in the prior year.
term planning processes to strengthen the linkage between product planning and supporting infrastructure investments.
We have also invested to improve internal communication and collaboration, and insystems to help us manage our growing global workforce.
ARM Strategic Report 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Commitment Financials 39 ARM may have to defend itself Fundamental assumptions that Operational risks 8 9 10 against third parties who claim underpin ARMs valuation may be that we have infringed their undermined, leading to a sudden proprietary rights depreciation of share price Whilst we take great care to establish and maintain the integrity of ARMs valuation is based on the financial markets view of our In addition to the principal risks, ARM closely manages its our products, we may have to protect our intellectual property or growth opportunity and the value of ARMs assets.
Many of these relate to the execution of the defend our technology against claims that we have infringed others assessments of our future markets could impact estimated cash day-to-day running of the business including, but not limited to: proprietary rights.
From time to time, third parties may assert ows.
Changes to assumptions about the value of ARMs assets, Efficient development of new technology patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to our including goodwill, could lead to the impairment of certain of technologies.
Any claim brought against us or our licensees could ARMs assets.
Patenting new ideas and inventions result in substantial costs and we may be bound to indemnify our Effective project and programme management licensees under the terms of our licence agreements.
Exploration into new business opportunities Managing the ecosystem of companies that support ARM technology Mitigation Mitigation We focus on designing and implementing our products without the At least once each year, we present to the financial markets the latest Ensuring that the business is able to operate its systems and use of intellectual property belonging to third parties, except under forecasts on the growth of the semiconductor industry and ARMs processes, and is able to quickly recover from any failure strictly maintained procedures and with the benefit of appropriate viewof our opportunity to win share within that market.
Ensuring that the business has adequate protection against licence rights.
In the event that a third party successfully proves that it cyber-attack has intellectual property rights covering a product that we have licensed to customers, we will take steps to either purchase a licence to use the Timely recruitment and training of employees relevant technology or work around the technology by developing our Management of condential information and commercially own solution so as to avoid infringement of that third partys intellectual sensitive data property rights.
Mitigation Change in 2015 Change in 2015 As previously described, operational risks are managed in accordance In 2015, ARM tracked the developments in the US Congress on the In addition to our quarterly results, ARM hosted two investor days with the AMS which defines key policies and processes across the Reform of Patent legislation designed to tackle the perceived problem during 2015 which gave updates on our progress and investments in organisation.
All employees are required to review these policies and of patent activity by some non-practising entities.
To date, progress on new markets such as the Internet of Things, networking infrastructure processes annually, and training is provided when new procedures any legislation in this area appears stalled.
Meanwhile, we have been and servers.
The content of these events can be found on the ARM are introduced.
encouraged by changes wrought by US Courts in regards to issues such website at www.
as fee-shifting and we believe this will result in fewer non-meritorious Change in 2015 actions against ARM and its Partners and a more reasonable approach All of the operational risks changed either in context or in likelihood to patent royalties in the future.
For example, as the inherent risk of cyber-attack has increased for all companies, ARM has improved its security measures commensurately with the increased risk.
However, none of the risks increased signicantly enough for them to be considered a principal risk and so continue to be managed at an operational level.
40 ARM Strategic Report 2015 Shaping a sustainable future ARM-based chips are being deployed to make infrastructure equipment more efficient, and to connect it to networks allowing remote real-time monitoring and control.
In wind energy ARM-based chips are used to control and monitor both the wind turbine components and power generation and metadata aggregation across the entire wind farm.
Smart, connected chips can be found in streetlights, traffic signals, car parking, toll booths, and across mass transport systems such as railways, trams and buses.
Similar chips are making manufacturing, agriculture and freight transport logistics more efficient and effective.
Find out more about innovation using embedded computers visit: www.
com markets ARM Strategic Report 2015 Str trate ate ategy gy y y y Pe Pe Per rforman man ance e Commitment Fin Financ ancial ials s 41 The power output of a wind turbine is determined by the wind speed, and also precise control of the yaw of the turbine relative to the wind, and the rotor blade pitch.
ARM Cortex-M Infrastructure can be made more capable using smarter chips.
For example Xilinxs Zinq chips are based on ARM Cortex-A technology and are deployed in some wind turbines Most wind turbines are located to improve their effectiveness.
in remote locations and must be monitored and controlled without having to visit onsite.
