Risk management Risk and Compliance Management Framework Effective risk and compliance management is an essential element of the Groups operations and strategy.
The accurate and timely identification, assessment and management of risks are key to the operational and financial success of the Group.
The Risk and Compliance Management Department: Provides guidelines, standards and best practice Organises and promotes risk and examples of risk and compliance management compliance workshops at the corporate and business unit levels Supervises the operations Is responsible for risk and compliance Reviews the effectiveness of mitigating actions management systems Supports internal stakeholders in key Maintains the Groups risk register strategic decisions The Groups risk and compliance management framework can be divided into three tiers: Governance Risk management Compliance Communicating the Ensuring that there are the Ensuring that the Groups Groups vision, strategy and structures and processes in internal policies, procedures objectives throughout the place to identify and evaluate and control activities, as organisation, and putting in risks, and that appropriate well as all relevant laws and place appropriate governance controls and mitigation regulations, are adhered to.
structures, policies and techniques are developed to procedures to embed key address those risks.
Ensuring that key risks, and the performance in managing those risks, are reported on a timely basis to the relevant parties.
32 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N INPUTS EXPLORATION EVALUATION CONSTRUCTION EXTRACTION PROCESSING MARKETING RESTORATION OUTPUTS Governance Risk management Compliance Model The Board is responsible for determining The Risk and Compliance Management The Groups Compliance Model applies the nature and extent of the significant Department has responsibility for risk and to both employees and contractors.
It is risks that the Group will accept in order compliance management systems across clearly defined and communicated regularly to achieve its strategic objectives, and the Group.
It maintains the Groups risk through internal communication channels, for maintaining sound risk management register, which specifies the strategic as well as being available on the Groups and internal control systems.
The Board risks that represent the most significant website.
All contracts with contractors receives detailed analysis of key matters threats to the Groups performance and include clauses relating to ethics and crime for consideration in advance of Board achievement of its strategy, along with any prevention to ensure adherence to the meetings.
This includes reports on the necessary mitigation activities.
The risk Groups Compliance Model.
Groups operational performance, including register is continuously updated and annual The Compliance Model comprises safety and health, financial, environmental, strategic risk workshops are held at which offive pillars: legal and social matters, key developments senior management from across the in the Groups exploration and business business review the Groups key strategic 1 The Code of Ethics development activities, information on the risks and related mitigation activities.
This code sets out the Groups values commodity markets, updates on talent The Risk and Compliance Management andprovides guidelines on behaviour management and analysis of financial Department reports quarterly to the Audit forallemployees and contractors.
The regular provision of this and Risk Committee on the overall risk 2 The Crime Prevention Model information allows the early identification management process, including a detailed This model ensures compliance with the of potential issues and assessment of update of key risks, mitigation activities anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in anynecessary mitigating actions.
the United Kingdom and Chile.
The Vice The Audit and Risk Committee assists the The General Managers of each of the President of Finance and Administration Board by reviewing the effectiveness of the operations have overall responsibility for isresponsible for overseeing, defining and risk management process and monitoring leading and supporting risk management.
As part of the key risks and mitigation procedures.
Risk Champions within each operation have Model, the Group regularly undertakes The Chairman of the Audit and Risk direct responsibility for risk management thefollowing activities: Committee reports to the Board following processes in their operations and for Training on key risk areas ethics, each Committee meeting, allowing the the continuous update of individual anti-corruption and anti-trust matters Board to understand and, if necessary, business risk registers, including relevant further discuss the matters considered mitigation activities.
The owners of the Investigating all reports made indetail by the Committee.
risks and controls at each business unit by whistleblowers are identified, providing an effective and These processes allow the Board to Conflict of interest assessment and direct management of risk.
As part of this monitor effectively the Groups major due diligence on all business partners process, each operation holds its own risks and related mitigation procedures, annual risk workshop in which the business Updating and reviewing all employees and assess the acceptable level of risk units risks and mitigation activities are conflict of interest statements that arises from the Groups operations reviewed in detail and updated if necessary.
Quarterly risk Bolstering the compliance programme Workshops are also used to assess key management reports are sent to the Board.
and systems risks that may affect relationships with The Code of Ethics sets out the Groups stakeholders, limit resources, interrupt Third party review of the Crime commitment to undertake business operations and or negatively affect potential Prevention Model in a responsible and transparent future growth.
Mitigation techniques for Policies and processes are in place to manner.
The Code requires honesty, the significant strategic and business unit ensure the proper management of any integrity and accountability from all risks are annually reviewed by the risk non-compliance exposure.
employees and contractors and includes management department.
guidelines for identifying and managing 3 Whistleblowing The Board regularly reviews Group potential conflicts of interest.
An Ethics Employees and external stakeholders compliance with all relevant laws and Committee comprising members of can report concerns of irregular conduct regulations, internal policies, procedures senior management is responsible for or ethical issues through the Companys and control activities.
A formal risk implementing, developing and updating intranet, or by email, letter or using a assessment is conducted at least once the Code and monitoring compliance.
Every complaint is ayear at all of the Groups operations, and The Code and other compliance matters investigated, the findings are reported all risks are reported and reviewed quarterly form part of the induction programme tothe Ethics Committee and, if required, by the Audit and Risk Committee.
Measures are taken to ensure the security and confidentiality of Further information on the Board and its employees for the duration of the process, Committees is given in the Governance section safeguarding employees and providing on pages 69 to 116. greater transparency.
Antofagasta plc 33 Risk management 4 Communication and Training Programme Areas of focus during 2015 and development The Group has a comprehensive training programme to ensure of key risks that the policies and procedures of the Compliance Model are understood and embedded in the culture of the organisation.
The focus was on consolidating the risk management The programme emphasises the right to know and there are processes, which included the following: measures in place to bolster the skills required to ensure its effective implementation.
Working to improve from maturity level 4 to maturity 5 Compliance Risks and Control Assessment level 5, the top level of the Risk Maturity Model The objective of the Compliance Risks and Control Assessment Expanding risk analysis to incorporate new business isto identify, develop and improve internal controls to prevent potential risks.
This assessment is performed at least annually.
areas and widen coverage The Compliance Model is regularly monitored and reviewed Improving key risk controls and taking action to internally as well as by external parties.
The strong performance reduce the impact and or probability of identified risks, ofthe Compliance Model has enabled it to be certified in Chile.
particularly through the use of preventive action plans The Model is regularly reviewed internally and by third parties, Updating and improving Disaster Recovery Plans and and on matters relating to corruption, it has been certified under  legislation.
Business Continuity Plans Establishing risk management training programmes for key users Following up agreed actions for materialised risks Including compliance matters in the Groups training programme Compliance Model Receiving certification for the third consecutive year of the Crime Prevention Model, as required by Chilean law Code of Ethics Crime Prevention Model Strengthening compliance processes by establishing best practices, holding training workshops for key exposed Code of Ethics Crime Prevention Handbook areas and implementing new guidelines Conflict of Interest Guidelines Anti-corruption clauses in contracts Further information about the Groups risk management systems Gifts and Hospitality Guidelines Due diligence process, including isgiveninthe Governance section on pages 69 to 116 and in the global checking Managingasustainable business section on pages 53 to 63.
Further Antitrust PEP Facilitation detailed disclosure in respect of financial risks relevant to the Group Fees Guidelines are set out inNote 26 to the financialstatements.
Whistleblowing Channels Reporting channels web, telephone hotline, email Methodology of investigation complaints and reports Monitoring analysis of complaints and improving internal control Communication and Training Plan Communications news, intranet, posters Training programme induction of new employees Compliance Risk and Control Assessment Identification of risks and controls Assessment of risks and controls, and improvement of the process 1 I n accordance with the Risk Maturity Model developed by Deloitte based on international standards such as COSO ERM, ISO 31000 and others.
34 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N INPUTS EXPLORATION EVALUATION CONSTRUCTION EXTRACTION PROCESSING MARKETING RESTORATION OUTPUTS Principal risks and uncertainties Set out below are the Groups principal risks and related mitigation techniques.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks set out below.
Risk Mitigation Application to strategy Community relations Failure to identify and manage The Group has dedicated teams at its central office and at each of its operations.
local concerns and expectations These establish and maintain relations with local communities based on trust and mutual can have a negative impact on benefit throughout the mining lifecycle, from exploration to final remediation.
The Group seeks the Group.
Relations with local to identify any potentially negative operational impacts and minimise these through responsible 1 communities and stakeholders behaviour.
This means acting transparently and ethically, prioritising the safety and health of its affect the Groups reputation employees and contractors, promoting dialogue, complying with commitments to stakeholders and social licence to operate and establishing mechanisms to prevent or address a crisis.
These steps are undertaken in the 2 and grow.
early stages of each project and continue throughout the life of each operation.
The Group also 3 contributes to the development of communities in the areas of influence in which it operates, particularly through human capital development the education, training and employment of the local population.
The Group endeavours to communicate clearly and transparently with local communities in line with the established Community Relations Plan, including the use of a grievance management process, local perception surveys, local media and community engagement.
Details of the Groups community relations activities are included in the Managing a sustainable business section on pages 53 to 63.
Strategic resources Disruption to the supply of any Contingency plans are in place to address any short-term disruptions to strategic resources.
of the Groups key strategic The Group commences early negotiations in supply contracts for key inputs to ensure supply inputs such as electricity, continuity.
Certain key supplies are purchased from several sources to mitigate potential water, fuel, sulphuric acid disruption arising from exposure to a single supplier.
1 and mining equipment could Technological and innovative solutions, such as using sea water in the Groups mining have a negative impact on operations, can help mitigate exposure to potential scarcity of resources.
Longer term, any 2 3 restrictions on the availability Access to energy is a priority for the Group and during 2014 and 2015, it secured several of key strategic resources such sources of non-traditional energy such as wind and solar power.
as water and electricity could affect the Groups opportunities Information on the Groups arrangements for the supply of key inputs are included withinthe Key inputs section on pages 19 to 21, and details of significant operational for growth.
orcost factors related to key inputs are included within the Operational review on A significant portion of pages39 to 52. the Groups input costs are influenced by external market factors.
Operational Mining operations are subject The key risks relating to each operation are identified as part of the regular risk review to a number of circumstances process undertaken by the individual operations.
This process also identifies appropriate mitigation techniques for such risks.
Monthly reports to the Board provide a variance analysis not wholly within the Groups control.
These include damage of operational and financial performance, allowing potential key issues to be identified in 1 goodtime and any necessary actions, such as monitoring or control activities, to take place.
to or breakdown of equipment or infrastructure, unexpected The Group has a Business Continuity Plan and Disaster Recovery Plan for all key processes geological variations or technical 2 within its operations in case of crisis or natural disaster.
The Group also has insurance to issues, extreme weather 3 provide protection from some, but not all, of the costs that may arise from such events.
conditions and natural disasters, any of which could adversely Details of the performance of each of the Groups operations are included within affect production and or costs.
theOperational review on pages 39 to 52.
Antofagasta plc 35 Risk management Risk Mitigation Application to strategy Project management Failure to effectively manage The Group has a project management system consisting of standards, manuals and the Groups development procedures containing the best practices applicable and enforceable in all phases of projects could result in delays project development.
The project management system supports the decision-making in the start of production and process by balancing risk versus benefit, increasing the likelihood of success and providing 1 cost overruns.
a common defining language and standards.
All geometallurgical models are reviewed byindependent experts.
2 Additionally, during the project lifecycle, quality checks for each of the standards applied are 3 carried out by a panel of experts from within the Group.
This panel reviews each feasibility study to assess the technical and commercial viability of the project.
Detailed progress reports on ongoing projects are regularly reviewed, including assessments of progress against key project milestones and performance against budget.
Details of the progress of the Groups projects are included within the Operationalreviewon pages 39 to 51.
Political, legal and regulatory The Group may be affected The Group assesses political risk as part of its evaluation of potential projects, including the by political instability and nature of any foreign investment agreements.
Political, legal and regulatory developments regulatory developments in affecting the Groups operations and projects are monitored on a continuous basis.
The Group the countries in which it is operates in full compliance with the existing laws, regulations, licences, permits and rights in 1 operating, pursuing projects each country in which it operates.
or conducting exploration The Group monitors proposed changes in government policies and regulations and belongs activities.
Issues regarding 2 toseveral associations that consult with the government on these changes.
the granting of permits or 3 amendments to permits Details of any significant political, legal or regulatory issues that impact the Groups already granted, and changes operations are included within the Operational review on pages 39 to 52. to the legal environment or regulations, could adversely affect the Groups operations and development projects.
Safety and health Safety and health incidents Safety and health risk management procedures are being strengthened, with particular focus could result in harm to the on preventing fatalities and the early identification of risks.
Groups employees, contractors The corporate Safety and Health department provides a common strategy to the Groups or to local communities.
1 operations and co-ordinates all safety and health matters.
The Group has a Significant Incident Ensuring their safety and Report system which is an important part of the Groups overall approach to safety.
wellbeing is first and foremost an ethical obligation for the 2 This approach includes a goal of zero fatalities and minimising the number of accidents.
Group as stated in the Charter 3 This goal requires all contractors to comply with the Groups Occupational Health and of Values.
Safety Plan, which is monitored through monthly audits and supported by regular training and awareness campaigns for employees, contractors, and employees families and local Poor safety records or communities, particularly with regard to road safety.
serious accidents could have a long-term impact on the Further information about the Groups activities in respect of safety and health Groups morale, reputation issetoutin the Managing a sustainable business section on pages 53 to 63. and production.
Environmental management An operational incident that The Group has a comprehensive approach to incident prevention.
Relevant risks are assessed, damages the environment monitored and controlled.
The Group works to raise awareness among employees and could affect the Groups provide training to promote operational excellence.
Potential environmental impacts are key relationship with local considerations when assessing project viability and the integration of innovative technology in 1 stakeholders and its reputation, the project design to mitigate these effects is encouraged.
The Group pioneered the use of sea undermining its social licence water for mining operations in Chile and has installed capacity to produce thickened tailings at tooperate and to grow.
Centinela as it strives to ensure maximum efficiency in water use, achieving high rates of reuse 2 and recovery.
3 The Group operates in challenging environments, Further information in respect of the Groups environmental activities is including the Atacama Desert setoutintheManaging a sustainable business section on pages 53 to 63. where water scarcity is a key issue.
36 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N INPUTS EXPLORATION EVALUATION CONSTRUCTION EXTRACTION PROCESSING MARKETING RESTORATION OUTPUTS Risk Mitigation Application to strategy Growth opportunities The Group may fail to The Group assesses a wide range of potential growth opportunities, both internal projects identify attractive acquisition and external opportunities.
A rigorous assessment process is followed to evaluate all potential opportunities or may select business acquisitions, which are subjected to different stress test scenarios for sensitivity inappropriate targets.
analysis and to determine the risks associated with the project or opportunity.
1 The long-term commodity price The Groups Business Development Committee reviews potential growth opportunities forecast and other assumptions andpotential transactions, and approves or recommends them within authority levels 2 used when assessing potential setbythe Board.
3 projects and other investment opportunities have a significant Details of the Groups growth opportunities are set out in the Operational reviewonpages 39 to 51. influence on the forecast return on investment and if incorrectly estimated could result in the wrong decisions being made.
Commodity prices The Groups results are heavily The Group considers exposure to commodity price fluctuations to be an integral part of the dependent on commodity business and its usual policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
The Group prices principally copper and, monitors the commodity markets closely to determine the effect of price fluctuations on to a lesser extent, gold and earnings, capital expenditure and cash flows.
Very occasionally the Group uses derivative 1 molybdenum.
The prices of instruments to manage its exposure to commodity price fluctuations when it feels it to be these commodities are strongly appropriate.
The Group runs its business plans under various different commodity price influenced by a variety of scenarios and develops contingency plans as required.
2 external factors, including world 3 As at the end of 2015, the Group held no open commodity hedging positions.
economic growth, inventory balances, industry demand and The sensitivity of the Groups earnings to movements in commodity prices is set out inNote 26 to the financial statements.
Foreign currency The Groups sales are mainly As copper exports account for over 50% of Chiles exports, there is a correlation between the denominated in US dollars and copper price and the US dollar Chilean peso exchange rate.
This natural hedge partly mitigates some of the Groups operating the Groups foreign exchange exposure.
However, the Group closely monitors the foreign costs are in Chilean pesos.
exchange markets and the macroeconomic variables that affect it and on occasion maintains 1 afocused currency hedging programme to reduce short-term exposure to fluctuations in the The strengthening of US dollar against the Chilean peso.
the Chilean peso may 2 negatively affect the Groups Details of the Groups currency hedging arrangements are shown in Note 26 to the 3 financial results.
Identification of new mineralresources The Group needs to identify The Group conducts exploration programmes both in Chile and other countries.
The Group new mineral resources to has entered into early-stage exploration agreements and strategic alliances with third parties ensure continued future growth in a number of countries and has also acquired equity interests in companies with known and does so through exploration geological potential.
The Group focuses its exploration activities on stable and secure countries 1 and acquisition.
There is a risk to reduce country risk exposure.
that exploration activities may not identify sufficient viable A review of the Groups exploration activities is set out in the Operational review 2 onpages50 and 51. mineral resources.
3 Antofagasta plc 37 Risk management Risk Mitigation Application to strategy Ore reserves and mineral resources estimates The Groups ore reserves The Groups reserves and resources estimates are updated annually to reflect material and mineral resources extracted during the year, the results of drilling programmes and any revised assumptions.
estimates are subject to a The Group follows the Australasian Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC Code in number of assumptions and reportingits ore reserves and mineral resources, which requires that the reserves and 1 estimates, including geological, resources estimates are based on work undertaken by a Competent Person, as defined metallurgical and technical by the Code.
In addition, the Groups reserves and resources estimates are subject to factors, future commodity acomprehensive programme of internal and external audits.
3 Fluctuations in these variables The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates, along with supporting explanations, are set out on pages 186 to 193. may result in some reserves or resources being deemed uneconomic, which could leadto a reduction in reserves and or resources.
Talent management and labour relations The Groups highly skilled There are long-term labour agreements in place with employees at each of the Groups mining workforce and experienced operations, which help to ensure labour stability.
These agreements were last renegotiated in management team are 2014 for a period of up to four years for all of the Groups operations, except for Zaldvar which critical to maintaining current was acquired during 2015 and whose labour agreement continues until 2017.
1 operations, implementing The Group seeks to identify and address labour issues that may arise throughout the period development projects, covered by existing labour agreements and to anticipate any potential issues in good time.
achieving long-term growth 2 Contractors are an important part of the Groups workforce and under Chilean law are and preserving current 3 subject to the same duties and responsibilities as the Groups own employees.
The Groups operations without major approach is to treat contractors as strategic associates and its goal is to build long-term disruption.
Managing talent mutually beneficial contractor relationships.
The Group maintains constructive relationships and maintaining a high-quality with its employees and the unions that represent them through regular communication and labour force is a key priority consultation.
Union representatives are regularly involved in discussions about the future of for the Group and any failures the workforce.
in this respect could have a negative impact on the The Group develops the talents of its employees through training and development, invests performance of the existing in initiatives to widen the talent pool and focuses on maintaining good relationships with operations and future growth.
The Groups performance management system is designed to provide reward and remuneration structures and personal development opportunities to attract and retain key employees.
The Group has in place a talent management system to identify and develop internal candidates for critical management positions, as well as processes to identify suitableexternal candidates where appropriate.
Details of the Groups relations with its employees and contractors are set out withintheManaging a sustainable business section on pages 53 to 63 and within theOperational review onpages39to 52.
Long-term viability statement To address the requirements of provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 Corporate Governance existing asset-base of the Group, without factoring in potential development Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a period of projects, which is considered appropriate for an assessment of the Groups ability five years.
to manage the impact of a depressed economic environment.
These stress-tests allindicated results which could be managed in the normal course of business.
Mining is a long-term business and timescales can run into decades.
The Group maintains life-of-mine plans covering the full remaining mine life for each of Based on their assessment of the Groups prospects and viability, the Directors the mining operations.
More detailed medium-term planning is performed for confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able a five-year time horizon as well as very detailed annual budgets.
Accordingly, to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next aperiod of five years has been selected as the appropriate period over which five years.
toassess the prospects of the Group.
Going concern When taking account of the impact of the Groups current position on this viability The Directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial statements assessment, the Directors have considered in particular its financial position, onthe going concern basis, as explained in the Basis of preparation paragraph including its significant balance of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments inNote 1 to the financial statements.
and the borrowing facilities in place, including their terms and remaining durations.
The Strategic Report has been approved by the Board and signed onits behalf by: When assessing the prospects of the Group, the Directors have considered the Groups copper price forecasts, the Groups expected production levels, operating cost profile, capital expenditure and financing plans.
The Directors have taken into consideration the Groups key risks which could impact the prospects of the Group over this period, with the most relevant to this viability assessment considered Jean-Paul Luksic to be risks to the copper price outlook.
Robust down-side sensitivity analyses Chairman have been performed, assessing the impact of a significant deterioration in the 14 March 2016 copper price outlook over the five-year period.
This analysis has focused onthe 38 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015
