Principal risks and uncertainties Managing our risk Ashtead has a rigorous risk management framework designed to identify and assess the likelihood and consequences of risk and to manage the actions necessary to mitigate their impact.
Our risk identification processes seek to identify risks from both a top-down strategic perspective and a bottom-up business perspective.
The Board has overall responsibility for risk management, setting of risk appetite and implementation of the risk management policy.
The overall assessment of risk is detailed in the Group Risk Register, which is maintained by the Group Risk Committee.
The Group Risk Register is based on detailed risk registers maintained by Sunbelt and A-Plant, which are reviewed and monitored through local risk committees.
The Group Risk Committee meets twice a year and reviews the results of the local risk committee assessments.
It produces an annual report and updated Group Risk Register which is reviewed by the Audit Committee to assess whether the appropriate risks have been identified and to ensure adequate assurance is obtained over those risks and then it is presented formally to the Board for discussion, approval and, if appropriate, re-rating of risks.
Our risk appetite is reflected in our rating of risks and ensures the appropriate focus is placed on the correct risks.
Further detail on our risk management framework and priorities during the year is provided on page 33.
Set out below are the principal business risks that impact the Group and information on how we mitigate them.
Our risk profile evolves as we move through the economic cycle and commentary on how risks have changed is included below.
Increased risk Constant risk Decreased risk See page 16 for our strategic priorities.
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS Potential impact Change Strategic priority In the longer term, there is a link between demand for our services and Our performance is currently ahead of levels of economic activity.
The construction industry, which affects our the economic cycle and we therefore business, is cyclical and typically lags the general economic cycle by expect to see further upside as the between 12 and 24 months.
However, our longer-term planning is focused on Mitigation the next downturn to ensure we have the Prudent management through the different phases of the cycle.
financial firepower at the bottom of the Flexibility in the business model.
cycle to achieve the next step change Capital structure and debt facilities arranged in recognition of the in business performance.
cyclical nature of our market and able to withstand market shocks.
COMPETITION Potential impact Change Strategic priority The already competitive market could become even more competitive Our competitive position continues to and we could suffer increased competition from large national improve.
We are growing faster than competitors or small companies operating at a local level resulting most of our larger competitors and the in reduced market share and lower revenue.
market, and continue to take market share from our smaller, less well Mitigation financed competitors.
We have Create commercial advantage by providing the highest level of service, increased our market share to 7% consistently and at a price which offers value.
in the US and it is 6% in the UK.
Excel in the areas that provide barriers to entry to newcomers: industry-leading IT, experienced personnel and a broad network and equipment fleet.
Regularly estimate and monitor our market share and track the performance of our competitors.
FINANCING Potential impact Change Strategic priority Debt facilities are only ever committed for a finite period of time and At 30 April 2015, our facilities were we need to plan to renew our facilities before they mature and guard committed for an average of six years, against default.
Our loan agreements also contain conditions known leverage remained at 1.8 times and as covenants with which we must comply.
availability under the ABL was $756m.
Mitigation Maintain conservative below two times net debt to EBITDA leverage which helps minimise our refinancing risk.
Use of an asset-based senior facility means none of our debt contains quarterly financial covenants when availability under the facility exceeds $200m.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 24 Strategic report BUSINESS CONTINUITY Potential impact Change Strategic priority We are heavily dependent on technology for the smooth running of our Our business continuity plans were business given the large number of both units of equipment we rent reviewed and updated during the year and our customers.
A serious uncured failure in our point of sale IT and our disaster recovery plans platforms would have an immediate impact, rendering us unable to were tested.
record and track our high volume, low transaction value operations.
Mitigation Robust and well-protected data centres with multiple data links to protect against the risk of failure.
Detailed business recovery plans which are tested periodically.
Separate near-live back-up data centres which are designed to be able to provide the necessary services in the event of a failure at the primary site.
PEOPLE Potential impact Change Strategic priority Retaining and attracting good people is key to delivering superior Our compensation and incentive performance and customer service.
programmes have continued to evolve to reflect market conditions and the Excessive staff turnover is likely to impact on our ability to maintain the economic environment.
appropriate quality of service to our customers and would ultimately impact our financial performance adversely.
Staff turnover has increased during the year as our well-trained, knowledgeable Mitigation staff have become targets for our Provide well-structured and competitive reward and benefit packages competitors.
that ensure our ability to attract and retain the employees we need.
Ensure that our staff have the right working environment and We continue to invest in training and equipment to enable them to do the best job possible and maximise career development with nearly 300 their satisfaction at work.
courses offered across both businesses.
Invest in training and career development opportunities for our people to support them in their careers.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Potential impact Change Strategic priority We need to comply with laws and regulations governing occupational The overall incident rate continued health and safety matters.
Furthermore, accidents could happen which to decrease in Sunbelt and A-Plant.
might result in injury to an individual, claims against the Group and In terms of reportable incidents, the damage to our reputation.
RIDDOR reportable rate was unchanged at 0.45 2014: 0.45 in Sunbelt but Mitigation increased to 0.55 in A-Plant 2014: 0.52.
Maintain appropriate health and safety policies and procedures regarding the need to comply with laws and regulations and to reasonably guard our employees against the risk of injury.
Induction and training programmes reinforce health and safety policies.
Programmes to support our customers exercising their responsibility to their own workforces when using our equipment.
Further details are provided on page 28.
ENVIRONMENTAL Potential impact Change Strategic priority We need to comply with the numerous laws governing environmental We continue to seek to reduce the protection matters.
These laws regulate such issues as wastewater, environmental impact of our business stormwater, solid and hazardous wastes and materials, and air and invest in technology to reduce quality.
Breaches potentially create hazards to our employees and the environmental impact on our the environment, damage to our reputation and expose the Group customers businesses.
In 2014 15 we to, amongst other things, the cost of investigating and remediating reduced our carbon emission intensity contamination and also fines and penalties for non-compliance.
Further detail Mitigation is provided on page 41.
Policies and procedures in place at all our stores regarding the need to adhere to local laws and regulations.
Procurement policies reflect the need for the latest available emissions management and fuel efficiency tools in our fleet.
Monitoring and reporting of carbon emissions.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 25
