Additional Information Risk Risks and uncertainties Operating in the pharmaceutical sector carries various inherent risks and uncertainties that may affect our business.
In this section, we describe the risks and uncertainties that we consider material to our business in that they may have a significant effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and or reputation.
These risks are not listed in any particular order of priority and have been categorised consistently with the Principal risks detailed from page 21.
Other risks, unknown or not currently considered material, could have a similar effect.
We believe that the forward-looking statements about AstraZeneca in this Annual Report, identified by words such as anticipates, believes, expects and intends, and that include, among other things, Future prospects in the Financial Review on page 76, are based on reasonable assumptions.
However, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties such as those summarised below.
They relate to events that may occur in the future, that may be influenced by factors beyond our control and that may have actual outcomes materially different from our expectations.
Product pipeline and IP risks Impact Failure to meet development targets The development of any pharmaceutical product candidate is a complex, A succession of negative drug project results and a failure to reduce risky and lengthy process involving significant financial, R&D and other development timelines effectively, or produce new products that achieve resources, which may fail at any stage of the process due to various the expected commercial success, could frustrate the achievement factors.
These include failure to obtain the required regulatory or marketing of development targets, adversely affect the reputation of our R&D approvals for the product candidate or its manufacturing facilities: capabilities, and is likely to materially adversely affect our business and unfavourable clinical efficacy data: safety concerns: failure of R&D to results of operations.
See also Failure to achieve strategic priorities or develop new product candidates: failure to demonstrate adequate to meet targets or expectations on page 225. cost-effective benefits to regulatory authorities and or payers: and the emergence of competing products.
Because our business model and strategy rely on the success of relatively few compounds, the failure of any in line production may have a significant negative effect on our business or results of operations.
Production and release schedules for biologics may be more significantly impacted by regulatory processes than other products.
This is due to more complex and stringent regulation on the manufacturing of biologics and their supply chain.
Delay to new product launches Our continued success depends on the development and successful Significant delays to anticipated launch dates of new products could launch of innovative new drugs.
The anticipated launch dates of major new have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and or results of products significantly affect our business, including investment in large operations.
For example, for the launch of products that are seasonal in clinical studies: the manufacture of pre-launch product stocks: investment nature, delays in regulatory approvals or manufacturing difficulties may in marketing materials pre-launch: sales force training: and the timing of delay launch to the next season which, in turn, may significantly reduce anticipated future revenue streams from new Product Sales.
Launch dates the return on costs incurred in preparing for the launch for that season.
are primarily driven by our development programmes and the demands In addition, a delayed launch may lead to increased costs if, for example, from various factors, including adverse findings in pre-clinical or clinical marketing and sales efforts need to be rescheduled or performed for studies, regulatory demands, price negotiation, competitor activity and longer than expected.
212 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Additional Information Product pipeline and IP risks Impact Acquisitions and strategic alliances, including licensing and collaborations, may be unsuccessful We seek licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations to expand If we fail to complete these types of collaborative projects in a timely our product portfolio and geographical presence as part of our business manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, this may limit our ability to strategy.
Such licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations are key, access a greater portfolio of products, IP technology and shared expertise.
enabling us to grow and strengthen the business.
The success of such Additionally, disputes or difficulties in our relationship with our collaborators arrangements is largely dependent on the technology and other IP rights or partners may arise, often due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of we acquire, and the resources, efforts and skills of our partners.
interest between parties, which may erode or eliminate the benefits of Also, under many of our licensing arrangements and strategic these alliances.
collaborations, we make milestone payments well in advance of the The incurrence of significant debt or liabilities due to the integration of commercialisation of the products, with no assurance that we will recoup an acquired business could cause deterioration in our credit rating and these payments.
result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense.
We may issue We may also seek to acquire complementary businesses or enter into additional shares to pay for acquired businesses, which would result other strategic transactions.
The integration of an acquired business could in the dilution of our then existing shareholders.
involve incurring significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities, as Further, if liabilities are uncovered in an acquired business, an acquired well as having a negative effect on our reported results of operations from business fails to perform in line with expectations, or a strategic transaction acquisition-related charges, amortisation of expenses related to intangibles does not deliver the results we intended, then the Group or our shareholders and charges for the implementation of long-term assets.
We may also may suffer losses and may not have adequate remedies against the seller experience difficulties in integrating geographically separated organisations, or third parties.
Integration processes may also result in business systems and facilities, and personnel with different organisational cultures.
disruption, diversion of management resources, the loss of key employees Furthermore, we experience strong competition from other pharmaceutical and other issues, such as a failure to integrate IT and other systems.
companies in respect of licensing arrangements, strategic collaborations, and acquisition targets, and therefore, we may be unsuccessful in implementing some of our intended projects or we may have to pay a significant premium over book or market values for our acquisitions.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 213 Additional Information Risk continued Product pipeline and IP risks Impact Difficulties obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for new products We are subject to strict controls on the commercialisation processes for Delays in regulatory reviews and approvals impact patient and market our pharmaceutical products, including their development, manufacture, access.
In addition, post-approval requirements result in increased distribution and marketing.
Safety, efficacy and quality must be established costs and may impact the labelling and approval status of currently before a drug can be marketed for a given indication.
The criteria for marketed products.
establishing safety, efficacy and quality may vary by country or region and the submission of an application to regulatory authorities may or may not lead to the grant of marketing approval.
Regulators can refuse to grant approval or may require additional data before approval is given, even though the medicine may already be launched in other countries.
Approved products are also subject to regulations, and a failure to comply can potentially result in losing regulatory approval to market our products.
Regulations may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials after a drugs approval, which can result in increased costs, labelling challenges or loss of regulatory approval.
Factors, including advances in science and technology, evolving regulatory science, and different approaches to benefit risk tolerance by regulatory authorities, the general public, and other third party public interest groups influence the initial approvability of new drugs.
Existing marketed products are also subject to these same forces, and new data and meta-analyses have the potential to drive changes in the approval status or labelling.
Recent years have seen an increase in post-marketing regulatory requirements and commitments, and an increased call for third party access to regulatory and clinical trial data packages for independent analysis and interpretation, and broader data transparency.
Unanticipated and unpredictable policy making by governments and regulators can adversely influence regulatory decision making, often leading to severe delays in regulatory approval.
The predictability of the outcome and timing of review processes remains challenging due to evolving regulatory science, competing regulatory priorities, unpredictable policy making and limits placed on regulatory authority resources.
Failure to obtain and enforce effective IP protection Our ability to obtain and enforce patents and other IP rights in relation to our Limitations on the availability of patent protection or the use of compulsory products is an important element in protecting our investment in R&D and licensing in certain countries in which we operate could have a material creating long-term value for the business.
Some countries in which we adverse effect on the pricing and sales of our products and, consequently, operate are still developing their IP laws, others are limiting the applicability could materially adversely affect our revenues from those products.
More of their IP laws to certain pharmaceutical inventions.
Certain countries may information about protecting our IP, the risk of patent litigation and the early seek to limit or deny effective IP protection for pharmaceuticals because of loss of IP rights is contained in the Intellectual Property section on page 60, adverse political perspectives around the desirability of appropriate IP the Effects of patent litigation in respect of IP rights risk on page 218 and protection for pharmaceuticals.
the Expiry or loss of, or limitations to, IP rights and consequential pressure from generic competition risk on page 215.
214 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Additional Information Commercialisation risks Impact Expiry or loss of, or limitations to, IP rights and consequential pressure from generic competition A pharmaceutical product is protected from being copied for the limited If challenges to our IP by generic drug manufacturers succeed and generic period of protection under patent rights and or related IP rights such as products are launched, or generic products are launched at risk on the Regulatory Data Protection or Orphan Drug status.
This period of expectation that challenges to our IP will be successful, this may materially protection helps us recoup our overall R&D investment.
Early loss of IP adversely affect our revenues and financial condition.
Furthermore, if rights may threaten our ability to recoup our investment in a patent product.
limitations on the availability, scope or enforceability of patent protection are Expiry or loss of these rights can materially adversely affect our revenues implemented in jurisdictions in which we operate, generic manufacturers in and financial condition due to the launch of generic copies of the product these countries may be increasingly able to introduce competing products in the country where the rights have expired or been lost see the Patent to the market earlier than they would have been able to, had more robust Expiries section on pages 210 and 211, which contains a table of certain patent protection or Regulatory Data Protection been available.
patent expiry dates for our key marketed products.
Products protected by our IP account for a significant proportion of our revenues.
For example, in 2015, US Product Sales for Crestor and Seroquel XR were $2,844 million 2014: $2,918 million and $716 million 2014: $738 million, respectively.
Additionally, the expiry or loss of patents covering other innovator companies products may also lead to increased competition and pricing pressure for our own, still-patented, products in the same product class due to the availability of lower priced generic products in that product class.
Typically, products under patent protection or within the period of Regulatory Data Protection generate significantly higher revenues than those not protected by such rights.
A pharmaceutical product competes with other products marketed by research-based pharmaceutical companies and approved for the same condition, as well as with generic drugs for that condition marketed by generic drug manufacturers.
Generic versions of products are often sold at lower prices than branded products, as the manufacturer does not have to recoup the significant cost of R&D investment and market development.
The majority of our patented products, including Nexium, Crestor and Seroquel XR, are subject to pricing pressures due to competition from generic copies of these products and from generic forms of other drugs in the same product class for example, generic forms of Losec Prilosec, Lipitor and Seroquel IR.
Additionally, generic manufacturers are often able to invest more resources in the marketing of their products than we do, due to their lack of R&D expenses.
As well as facing generic competition upon expiry or loss of IP rights, we also face the risk that generic drug manufacturers seek to market generic versions of our products prior to expiries of our patents and or the Regulatory Exclusivity periods.
For example, as detailed in Note 27 to the Financial Statements from page 186, we are currently facing challenges from numerous generic drug manufacturers regarding our patents relating to key products, including Brilinta, Faslodex, Seroquel XR, Byetta, Daliresp, Onglyza and Crestor which goes off-patent in the US in May 2016.
Patent challenges are also discussed in the Effects of patent litigation in respect of IP rights risk on page 218.
Generic manufacturers may also take advantage of the failure of certain countries to properly enforce Regulatory Data Protection and may launch generics during this protected period.
This is a particular risk in some Emerging Markets where appropriate patent protection may be difficult to obtain or enforce.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 215 Additional Information Risk continued Commercialisation risks Impact Abbreviated approval processes for biosimilars While no application for a biosimilar has been made in relation to an The extent to which biosimilars would differ from patented biologics on AstraZeneca biologic, various regulatory authorities are implementing or price is unclear.
However, due to their complex nature, it is uncertain considering abbreviated approval processes for biosimilars that would whether biosimilars would have the same impact on patented biologics compete with patented biologics.
that generic products have had on patented small molecule products.
For example, in 2010, the US enacted the Biologics Price Competition In addition, it is uncertain when any such abbreviated approval processes and Innovation Act within the ACA, which contains general directives for may be fully realised, particularly for more complex protein molecules biosimilar applications.
The FDA issued final guidance in April 2015 on such as MAbs.
Such processes may materially and adversely affect the implementing an abbreviated biosimilar approval pathway.
In March 2015, future commercial prospects for patented biologics, such as the ones that the FDA approved the first biosimilar product submitted under the we produce.
However, significant questions remain, including standards for designation of interchangeability and data collection requirements to support extrapolation of indications.
In addition, due to the recent submissions and approvals of abbreviated biosimilar applications, a number of legal challenges construing the requirements of the abbreviated biosimilar pathway are under review.
For example, in July 2015, the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit held that biosimilar applicants were not required to provide copies of the biosimilar application or manufacturing information but needed to provide 180-day commercial marketing notice to the reference sponsor.
Although this decision and other ongoing legal challenges do not directly impact an AstraZeneca biologic, uncertainty regarding the abbreviated biosimilar approval pathway may remain until these initial legal challenges reach final conclusion.
In Europe, the EMA published final guidelines on similar biologics containing MAbs and in May 2012, the first MAb biosimilar application was submitted with recommendation for approval made by the EMA.
Notably, various jurisdictions have adopted either the EMA guidelines or those set forth by WHO to enable biosimilars to enter the market after discrete periods of data exclusivity.
Political and socio-economic conditions We operate in over 100 countries around the world, some of which may be Deterioration of, or failure to improve, socio-economic conditions, and subject to political and social instability.
There may be disruption to our situations and or resulting events, depending on their severity, could business if there is instability in a particular geographic region, including as adversely affect our supply and or distribution chain in the affected a result of war, terrorism, riot, unstable governments, civil insurrection or countries and the ability of customers or ultimate payers to purchase social unrest.
For instance, our operational risks in Ukraine have increased our medicines.
This could adversely affect our business or results due to growing political and economic uncertainty in the region.
Broader economic developments, such as potential international sanctions and global oil price developments, could exacerbate this effect in the Ukrainian and Russian markets.
216 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Additional Information Commercialisation risks Impact Developing our business in Emerging Markets The development of our business in Emerging Markets is a critical factor The failure to exploit potential opportunities appropriately in Emerging in determining our future ability to sustain or increase our global Product Markets or materialisation of the risks and challenges of doing business Sales.
This poses various challenges including: more volatile economic in such markets, including inadequate protection against crime including conditions and or political environments: competition from multinational counterfeiting, corruption and fraud or inadvertent breaches of local and and local companies with existing market presence: the need to identify international law may materially adversely affect our reputation, business and to leverage appropriate opportunities for sales and marketing: poor IP or results of operations.
protection: inadequate protection against crime including counterfeiting, corruption and fraud : inadequate infrastructure to address disease outbreaks such as the Ebola virus : the need to impose developed market compliance standards: the need to meet a more diverse range of national regulatory, clinical and manufacturing requirements: inadvertent breaches of local and international law: not being able to recruit appropriately skilled and experienced personnel: identification of the most effective sales and marketing channels and route to market: and interventions by national governments or regulators restricting market access and or introducing adverse price controls.
Challenges to achieving commercial success of new products The successful launch of a new pharmaceutical product involves If a new product does not succeed as anticipated or its rate of sales growth substantial investment in sales and marketing activities, launch stocks and is slower than anticipated, there is a risk that we may be unable to fully other items.
The commercial success of our new medicines is particularly recoup the costs incurred in launching it, which could materially adversely important to replace lost Product Sales following patent expiry.
We may affect our business or results of operations.
ultimately be unable to achieve commercial success for any number of Due to the complexity of the commercialisation process for biologics, the reasons.
These include difficulties in manufacturing sufficient quantities methods of distributing and marketing biologics could materially adversely of the product candidate for development or commercialisation in a timely impact our revenues from the sales of biologics medicines, such as manner, the impact of price control measures imposed by governments Synagis and FluMist Fluenz.
and healthcare authorities, the outcome of negotiations with third party payers, erosion of IP rights, including infringement by third parties, failure to show a differentiated product profile and changes in prescribing habits.
As a result, we cannot be certain that compounds currently under development will achieve success, and our ability to accurately assess, prior to launch, the eventual efficacy or safety of a new product once in broader clinical use can only be based on data available at that time, which is inherently limited due to relatively short periods of product testing and relatively small clinical study patient samples.
The commercialisation of biologics is often more complex than for small molecule pharmaceutical products, primarily due to differences in the mode of administration, technical aspects of the product, and rapidly changing distribution and reimbursement environments.
Our products are subject to competition by other products approved for the same or similar indication, and the approval of a competitive product that is considered superior, or equivalent to, one of our products may result in immediate and significant decreases in our revenues.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 217 Additional Information Risk continued Commercialisation risks Impact Effects of patent litigation in respect of IP rights Any of the IP rights protecting our products may be asserted or challenged Managing or litigating infringement disputes over so-called freedom to in IP litigation and or patent office proceedings initiated against or by operate can be costly.
We may be subject to injunctions against our external parties.
We expect our most valuable products to receive the products or processes and be liable for damages or royalties.
We may greatest number of challenges.
Despite our efforts to establish and defend need to obtain costly licences.
These risks may be greater in relation to robust patent protection for our products, we may not succeed in biologics and vaccines, where patent infringement claims may relate to protecting or enforcing our patents in such litigation or other challenges.
discovery or research tools, and manufacturing methods and or biological materials.
While we seek to manage such risks by, for example, acquiring We bear the risk that courts may decide that third parties do not infringe licences, forgoing certain activities or uses, or modifying processes to our asserted IP rights.
This may result in AstraZeneca losing exclusivity avoid infringement claims and permit commercialisation of our products, and or erosion of revenues.
such steps can entail significant cost and there is no guarantee that they Where we assert our IP rights but are ultimately unsuccessful, third parties will be successful.
may seek damages, alleging, for example, that they have been If we are not successful in maintaining exclusive rights to market one or inappropriately restrained from entering the market.
In such cases, we bear more of our major products, particularly in the US where we achieve the risk that we incur liabilities to those third parties.
our highest Product Sales, our revenue and margins could be materially We also bear the risk that we may be found to infringe patents owned or adversely affected.
licensed exclusively by third parties, including research-based and generic Unfavourable resolution of such current and similar future patent litigation pharmaceutical companies and individuals.
Third parties may seek matters could subject us to damages including enhanced damages, damages for alleged patent infringement.
In the US, they may also seek require us to make significant provisions in our accounts relating to legal enhanced ie up to treble damages for alleged wilful infringement of proceedings and or could materially adversely affect our financial condition their patents.
Details of material patent litigation matters can be found in Note 27 to the Financial Statements from page 186.
Price controls and reductions Most of our key markets have experienced the implementation of various Due to these pricing pressures, there can be no certainty that we will be cost control or reimbursement mechanisms for pharmaceutical products.
able to charge prices for a product that, in a particular country or in the aggregate, enable us to earn an adequate return on our product For example, in the US, prices are being depressed through restrictive investment.
These pressures, including the increasingly restrictive reimbursement policies and cost control tools such as restricted lists reimbursement policies to which we are subject, as well as potential and formularies, which employ generic first strategies and or require legislation that expands the commercial importation of medicines into the physicians to obtain prior approval for the use of a branded medicine where US, could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
These mechanisms can be used by payers to We expect these pricing pressures will continue, and may increase.
limit the use of branded products and put pressure on manufacturers to reduce net prices.
In addition, payers are shifting a greater proportion of the cost of branded medicines to the patient via out-of-pocket payments at the pharmacy counter.
The patient out-of-pocket spend is generally in the form of a co-payment or, in some cases, a co-insurance, which is designed, principally, to encourage patients to use generic medicines.
In Emerging Markets, governments are increasingly controlling pricing in the self-pay sector and favouring locally manufactured drugs.
A summary of the principal aspects of price regulation and how pricing pressures are affecting our business in our most important markets is set out in Pricing of medicines in the Marketplace section on page 14 and overleaf in the following risk factor.
218 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Additional Information Commercialisation risks Impact Economic, regulatory and political pressures While new patients entering the US healthcare system due to the ACA We face continued economic, regulatory and political pressures to limit or reduce the cost of our products.
may lead to a slight increase in prescription drug utilisation, we expect that our financial and other costs resulting from the ACA, many of which In 2010, the US enacted the ACA, a comprehensive health reform law we are unable to accurately estimate, will far outweigh any increase in that expands insurance coverage, implements delivery system reforms Product Sales.
and places a renewed focus on cost and quality.
In terms of specific provisions impacting our industry, the law mandates higher rebates and The continued disparities in EU and US pricing systems could lead discounts on branded drugs for certain Medicare and Medicaid patients to marked price differentials between markets, which, by way of the as well as an industry-wide excise fee.
Implementation of several health implementation of existing or new reference pricing mechanisms, system delivery reforms included in the ACA has commenced and will increases the pricing pressure affecting the industry.
The importation of continue through 2018.
The ACA expands the patient population eligible pharmaceutical products from countries where prices are low due to for Medicaid and provides new insurance coverage for individuals through government price controls, or other market dynamics, to countries where state and federally operated health insurance exchanges.
In general, prices for those products are higher, is already prevalent and may increase.
patients enrolled in the exchanges are subject to higher cost sharing Increased transparency of net prices and strengthened collaboration by obligations and may not have as robust access to prescription drugs as governments may accelerate the development of further cost containment compared to patients enrolled in Medicare Part D or commercial plans.
policies such as procurement or the comparison of net prices etc.
Based, in part, on the impact of ACA to other healthcare sectors, there is ongoing scrutiny of the US pharmaceutical industry that could result in further government intervention and financial constraint.
Many stakeholders, including some in Congress and others in the broader healthcare system, such as health plans, have dramatically increased their criticism over the value of medicines in the US and have placed a stronger emphasis on innovative therapies.
Such criticism and focus on the value of medicines has resulted in proposed policy and legislative changes at the state and federal levels aimed at imposing price controls on medicines and increasing price transparency.
For more information, please see Regulatory requirements and Pricing of medicines in the Marketplace section from page 13 and page 14, respectively.
In the EU, efforts by the EC to reduce inconsistencies and improve standards in the disparate national pricing and reimbursement systems met with little immediate success as Member States guard their right to make healthcare budget decisions.
The industry continues to be exposed in Europe to various ad hoc cost-containment measures and reference pricing mechanisms, which impact prices.
There is a trend towards increasing transparency and comparison of prices among EU Member States.
Recent controversy regarding the high price of a drug marketed by one of our competitors for chronic hepatitis C may provoke further EU collaboration and may eventually lead to a change in the overall pricing and reimbursement landscape.
Concurrently, many markets are adopting the use of Health Technology Assessment HTA to provide a rigorous evaluation of the clinical efficacy of a product, at, or post, launch.
HTA evaluations are also increasingly being used to assess the clinical effect, as well as cost-effectiveness, of products in a particular health system.
This comes as payers and policymakers attempt to increase efficiencies in the use and choice of pharmaceutical products.
Further information regarding these pressures is contained in Regulatory requirements and Pricing of medicines in the Marketplace section from page 13 and page 14, respectively.
Illegal trade in our products The illegal trade in pharmaceutical products is widely recognised by Public loss of confidence in the integrity of pharmaceutical products industry, non-governmental organisations and governmental authorities to as a result of illegal trade could materially adversely affect our reputation be increasing.
Illegal trade includes counterfeiting, theft and illegal diversion and financial performance.
In addition, undue or misplaced concern that is, when our products are found in a market where we did not send about this issue may cause some patients to stop taking their medicines, them and where they are not approved or not permitted allowed to be with consequential risks to their health.
Authorities may take action, sold.
There is a risk to public health when illegally traded products enter financial or otherwise, if they believe we are liable for breaches in our own the supply chain, as well as associated financial risk.
Authorities and the supply chains.
public expect us to help reduce opportunities for illegal trade in our There is also a direct financial loss when counterfeit and or illegally diverted products through securing the integrity of our supply chain, surveillance, products replace sales of genuine products: or genuine products are investigation and supporting legal action against those found to be recalled following discovery of counterfeit products: or products which engaged in illegal trade.
have been the subject of theft or illegal diversion are recalled: or illegally diverted products replace sales of products which are approved allowed for sale in a market.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 219 Additional Information Risk continued Commercialisation risks Impact Increasing implementation and enforcement of more stringent anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation There is an increasing global focus on the implementation and enforcement Despite taking measures to prevent breaches of applicable anti-bribery of anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation.
and anti-corruption laws by our personnel and associated third parties, breaches may still occur, potentially resulting in the imposition of significant For example, in the UK, the Bribery Act 2010 has extensive extra-territorial penalties, such as fines, the requirement to comply with monitoring or application, and imposes organisational liability for any bribe paid by self-reporting obligations, or debarment or exclusion from government persons or entities associated with an organisation where the organisation sales or reimbursement programmes, any of which could materially failed to have adequate preventative controls in place at the time of the adversely affect our reputation, business or results of operations.
In the US, there has been significant enforcement activity in respect of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by the SEC and DOJ against US companies and non-US companies listed in the US.
China and other countries are also enforcing their own anti-bribery laws more aggressively and or adopting tougher new measures.
We are the subject of current anti-corruption investigations and there can be no assurance that we will not, from time to time, continue to be subject to informal inquiries and formal investigations from governmental agencies.
In the context of our business, governmental officials interact with us in various roles that are important to our operations, such as in the capacity of a regulator, partner or healthcare payer, reimburser or prescriber, among others.
Details of these matters are included in Note 27 to the Financial Statements from page 186.
Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations Any failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may result Failure to comply with applicable laws, including ongoing control and in civil and or criminal legal proceedings being filed against us, or in us regulation, could materially adversely affect our business or results of becoming subject to regulatory sanctions.
For example, once a product has been approved for marketing wide-ranging administrative powers to deal with any failure to comply with by the regulatory authorities, it is subject to continuing control and continuing regulatory oversight and this could affect us, whether such regulation, such as the manner of its manufacture, distribution, marketing failure is our own or that of our contractors or external partners.
For example, if regulatory issues concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice or safety monitoring regulations for pharmaceutical products often referred to as pharmacovigilance arise, this could lead to loss of product approvals, product recalls and seizures, and interruption of production, which could create product shortages and delays in new product approvals, and negatively impact patient access and our reputation.
Failure of information technology and cybercrime Any significant disruption to these IT systems, including breaches of data We are dependent on effective IT systems.
These systems support key business functions such as our R&D, manufacturing, supply chain and security or cybersecurity, or failure to integrate new and existing IT systems, could harm our reputation and materially adversely affect our financial sales capabilities and are an important means of safeguarding and communicating data, including critical or sensitive information, the condition or results of operations.
confidentiality and integrity of which we rely on.
While we have invested heavily in the protection of our data and IT, we may Examples of sensitive information that we protect include loss of clinical trial be unable to prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could records patient names and treatments, personal information employee result in disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation, bank details, home address, intellectual property of manufacturing process regulatory penalties, financial losses and or other costs.
and compliance, key research science techniques, AstraZeneca property Significant changes in the business footprint and the implementation of the theft and privileged access rights to perform IT tasks.
IT strategy, including the creation and use of captive offshore Global The size and complexity of our IT systems, and those of our third party Technology Centres, could lead to temporary loss of capability.
vendors including outsource providers with whom we contract, have The inability to effectively backup and restore data could lead to permanent significantly increased over the past decade and makes such systems loss of data that could result in non-compliance with applicable laws potentially vulnerable to service interruptions and security breaches from and regulations.
attacks by malicious third parties, or from intentional or inadvertent actions We and our vendors could be susceptible to third party attacks on our by our employees or vendors.
Such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise, including criminal groups, hacktivists and others.
From time to time we experience intrusions, including as a result of computer-related malware.
220 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Additional Information Commercialisation risks Impact Any expected gains from productivity initiatives are uncertain We continue to implement various productivity initiatives and restructuring If inappropriately managed, the expected value of these initiatives could be programmes with the aim of enhancing the long-term efficiency of the lost through low employee engagement and hence productivity, increased business.
However, anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these absence and attrition levels, and industrial action.
programmes are based on estimates and the actual savings may vary Our failure to successfully implement these planned cost-reduction significantly.
In particular, these cost-reduction measures are often based measures, either through the successful conclusion of employee relations on current conditions and cannot always take into account any future processes including consultation, engagement, talent management, changes to the pharmaceutical industry or our operations, including new recruitment and retention, or the possibility that these efforts do not business developments or wage or price increases.
generate the level of cost savings we anticipate, could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
Failure of outsourcing We have outsourced various business-critical operations to third party The failure of outsource providers to deliver timely services, and to the providers.
This includes certain R&D processes, IT systems, HR and required level of quality, and the failure of outsource providers to co-operate finance, tax and accounting services.
with each other, could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.
In addition, such failures could adversely impact our ability to meet business targets, maintain a good reputation within the industry and with stakeholders, and result in non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
A failure to successfully manage and implement the integration of IT infrastructure services provided by our outsource providers could create disruption, which could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
In addition, failure to manage outsourcing or insourcing transition processes may disrupt our business.
For instance, as we transition services that previously were outsourced to our service centre in Chennai India, incumbent outsource providers may cease to continue to provide the same level of resources and quality of service.
Failure to attract and retain key personnel and failure to successfully engage with our employees We rely heavily on recruiting and retaining talented employees with a The inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, in particular those diverse range of skills and capabilities to meet our strategic objectives.
For in key scientific and leadership positions and those in our talent pools, may example, the success of our science activities depends largely on our weaken our succession plans for critical positions in the medium term, may ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of high-quality researchers materially adversely affect the implementation of our strategic objectives and development specialists.
We face intense competition for well-qualified and could ultimately impact our business or results of operations.
individuals, as the supply of people with specific skills and significant Failure to engage effectively with our employees could lead to business leadership potential or in specific geographic regions may be limited.
disruption in our day-to-day operations, reduce levels of productivity and or increase levels of voluntary turnover, all of which could ultimately adversely Our ability to achieve high levels of employee engagement in the workforce, and hence benefit from strong commitment and motivation, is key to the impact our business or results of operations.
successful delivery of our business objectives.
While we are committed to working on improving drivers of engagement, such as increasing our employees understanding of our strategy and our ongoing efforts to reduce organisational complexity, our efforts may be unsuccessful.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 221 Additional Information Risk continued Supply chain and business execution risks Impact Difficulties and delays in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products We may experience difficulties and delays in manufacturing our products, Manufacturing, forecasting, distribution and sales difficulties may result such as: in product shortages and significant delays, which may lead to lost Product Sales and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or Supply shortages associated with gaps between forecasted and actual results of operations.
Supply chain disruptions, including those due to natural or man-made disasters at one of our facilities or at a critical supplier or vendor.
Delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our products.
Inability to supply products due to a product quality failure or regulatory agency compliance action such as licence withdrawal, product recall or product seizure.
Other manufacturing or distribution problems, including changes in manufacturing production sites, limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in the types of products produced, or physical limitations or other business interruptions that could impact continuous supply.
Reliance on third party goods and services Third party supply failure could lead to significant delays and or difficulties We increasingly rely on third parties for the timely supply of goods, such as raw materials for example, the API in some of our medicines, equipment, in obtaining goods and services on commercially acceptable terms and or adversely affect AstraZenecas reputation.
This may materially adversely formulated drugs and packaging, and services, all of which are key to our operations.
Many of these goods are difficult to substitute in a timely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Loss of access to sufficient sources of key goods and biological materials Unexpected events and or events beyond our control could result in the or services may interrupt or prevent planned research activities and or failure of the supply of goods and services.
For example, suppliers of key increase our costs.
Further information is contained in Working with goods may cease to trade or experience supply chain failures such as suppliers in Manufacturing and Supply on page 47. those described under the risk above.
In addition, we may experience limited supply of biological materials, such as cells, animal products or by-products.
Furthermore, government regulations could result in restricted access to, use or transport of such materials.
Manufacturing biologics Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is complex and may Slight variations in any part of the manufacturing process or require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms components may lead to a product that does not meet its stringent and facilities specifically designed and validated for this purpose, with design specifications.
Failure to meet these specifications may lead to sophisticated quality assurance and control procedures.
recalls, spoilage, drug product shortages, regulatory action and or reputational harm.
Final market release of a biologic depends on a number of in-process manufacturing and supply chain parameters to ensure the product conforms with its safety, identity and strength requirements and meets its quality and purity characteristics.
Biologics production facilities, especially for drug substance manufacture, are very specialised and can take years to develop and bring on line as licensed facilities.
Predicting demand for certain classes of biologics, especially prior to launch, can be challenging.
We expect that external capacity for biologics drug substance production will remain constrained for the next several years and, accordingly, may not be readily available for supplementary production in the event that we experience unforeseen need for such capacity.
222 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Additional Information Legal: regulatory and compliance risks Impact Adverse outcome of litigation and or governmental investigations We may be subject to various product liability, consumer commercial, Governmental investigations for example, under the Foreign Corrupt anti-trust, environmental, employment or tax litigation or other legal Practices Act or federal or state False Claims Acts or legal proceedings, proceedings and governmental investigations.
Litigation, particularly in regardless of their outcome, could be costly, divert management attention, the US, is inherently unpredictable and unexpectedly high awards for or damage our reputation and demand for our products.
Unfavourable damages can result from an adverse verdict.
In many cases, plaintiffs may resolution of current and similar future proceedings against us could claim enhanced damages in extremely high amounts.
In particular, the subject us to criminal liability, fines, penalties or other monetary or marketing, promotional, clinical and pricing practices of pharmaceutical non-monetary remedies, including enhanced damages, require us to make manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact significant provisions in our accounts relating to legal proceedings and with purchasers, prescribers and patients, are subject to extensive could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
regulation, litigation and governmental investigation.
Many companies, including AstraZeneca, have been subject to claims related to these practices asserted by federal and state governmental authorities and private payers and consumers, which have resulted in substantial expense and other significant consequences.
Note 27 to the Financial Statements from page 186 describes the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved.
Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to anti-competitive behaviour Any failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations relating to Where a government authority investigates our adherence to competition anti-competitive behaviour may expose us to regulatory sanctions laws, or we become subject to private party lawsuits, this may result in and or lawsuits from governmental authorities and private, noninspections of our sites or requests for documents and other information.
Competition investigations or legal proceedings could be costly, divert management attention or damage our reputation and demand for Certain of our commercial arrangements with generics companies, which our products.
have sought to settle patent challenges on terms acceptable to both innovator and generics manufacturer, may be subject to challenge by Unfavourable resolution of such current and similar future proceedings competition authorities.
against us could subject us to fines and penalties, including enhanced ie up to treble damages, require us to make significant provisions in our Details of material litigation matters which raise allegations of antiaccounts relating to legal proceedings and could materially adversely affect competitive behaviour can be found in Note 27 to the Financial Statements our business results of operations, including, by requiring us to change from page 186. our commercial practice.
Substantial product liability claims Any failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations relating to the Significant product liability claims can result in requests for documents manufacturing, design, and provision of appropriate warnings concerning and other information.
These legal proceedings could be costly, divert the dangers and risks of our medicines that result in injuries allegedly management attention or damage our reputation and demand for caused by the use of our medicines could expose us to large product our products.
liability damages claims, settlements and awards, particularly in the US.
Unfavourable resolution of such current and similar future product liability Adverse publicity relating to the safety of a product or of other competing claims could subject us to enhanced damages, require us to make products may increase the risk of product liability claims.
significant provisions in our accounts relating to legal proceedings and Details of material product liability litigation matters can be found in Note 27 could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of to the Financial Statements from page 186. operations, particularly where such circumstances are not covered by insurance.
For more information, see the Limited third party insurance coverage risk on page 226.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 223 Additional Information Risk continued Legal: regulatory and compliance risks Impact Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to environment, health and safety: environmental and occupational health and safety liabilities Any failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations relating to the While we carefully manage compliance and any known liabilities, and environment or occupational health or safety may expose us to regulatory work to stay ahead of policy and legislative developments, if a significant sanctions and or lawsuits from governmental authorities and private, compliance issue, environmental, occupational health or safety incident non-governmental entities.
Additionally, the failure to adequately anticipate or legal requirement for which we are responsible were to arise, this could and proactively manage emerging policy and legal developments result in us being responsible for fines and penalties, damages, and other associated with the environment, health and safety could adversely affect costs.
In some circumstances, such liability could materially adversely our licence to operate and or reputation.
affect our business or results of operations.
In addition, our financial provisions for any obligations that we may have relating to environmental We have environmental and or occupational health and safety-related or occupational health and safety liabilities may be insufficient if the liabilities at some currently and formerly owned, leased and third party assumptions underlying the provisions, including for example our sites, the most significant of which are detailed in Note 27 to the Financial assumptions regarding the portion of waste at a site for which we are Statements from page 186. responsible, prove incorrect or if we are held responsible for additional contamination or occupational health and safety-related claims.
Misuse of social media platforms and new technology We increasingly use the internet, digital content, social media, mobile Inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could lead to the unauthorised applications and other forms of new technology to communicate internally or unintentional public disclosure of sensitive information such as and externally.
The accessibility and instantaneous nature of interactions personally identifiable information on employees, healthcare professionals with such media may facilitate or exacerbate the risk of data leakages from or patients, for example, those enrolled in our clinical trials, which may within AstraZeneca or false or misleading statements being made about damage our reputation, adversely affect our business or results of AstraZeneca, which may damage our reputation.
As existing social media operations and expose us to legal risks, as well as additional legal platforms expand and evolve, and new social media platforms emerge, it obligations.
Similarly, the involuntary public disclosure of commercially becomes increasingly challenging to identify new points of entry and to put sensitive information, such as trade secrets through external media structures in place to secure and protect information.
channels, or an information loss could adversely affect our business or results of operations.
In addition, negative posts or comments on social media websites or other digital channels or new forms of technology about us or, for example, the safety of our products, could harm our reputation.
224 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Additional Information Economic and financial risks Impact Failure to achieve strategic priorities or to meet targets or expectations We may from time to time communicate our business strategy or our There can be no guarantee that our financial targets or expectations will targets or expectations regarding our future financial or other performance materialise on the expected timeline or at all.
Actual results may deviate for example, the expectations described in Future prospects in the materially and adversely from any such target or expectation, including if Financial Review on page 76.
All such statements are of a forward-looking one or more of the assumptions or judgements underlying any such target nature and are based on assumptions and judgements we make, all or expectation proves to be incorrect in whole or in part.
of which are subject to significant inherent risks and uncertainties, including risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of and or that are beyond our control.
Any failure to successfully implement our business strategy may frustrate the achievement of our financial or other targets or expectations and, in turn, materially damage our brand and materially adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations.
Adverse impact of a sustained economic downturn A variety of significant risks may arise from a sustained global economic While we have adopted cash management and treasury policies to downturn including for example the economic slowdown in China, our manage this risk see the Financial risk management policies section of the second largest market.
Additional pressure from governments and other Financial Review on page 76, we cannot be certain that these will be as healthcare payers on medicine prices and volumes of sales in response to effective as they are intended to be, in particular in the event of a global recessionary pressures on budgets may cause a slowdown or a decline in liquidity crisis.
In addition, open positions where we are owed money and growth in some markets.
In some cases, those governments most severely investments we have made in financial institutions or money market funds impacted by the economic downturn may seek alternative ways to settle cannot be guaranteed to be recoverable.
Additionally, if we need access to their debts through, for example, the issuance of government bonds which external sources of financing to sustain and or grow our business, such as might trade at a discount to the face value of the debt.
the debt or equity capital financial markets, this may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, in the event of a severe and or In addition, our customers may cease to trade, which may result in sustained economic downturn.
This may, for instance, be the case in the losses from writing off debts, or the sustained economic downturn event of any default by the Group on its debt obligations, which may may unfavourably affect the spending patterns of the consumers of materially adversely affect our ability to secure debt funding in the future our products.
or our financial condition in general.
Further information on debt funding We are highly dependent on being able to access a sustainable flow of arrangements is contained in the Financial risk management policies liquid funds due to the high fixed costs of operating our business and the section of the Financial Review on page 76. long and uncertain development cycles of our products.
In a sustained economic downturn, financial institutions with whom we deal may cease to trade and there can be no guarantee that we will be able to access monies owed to us without a protracted, expensive and uncertain process, if at all.
More than 95% of our cash investments are managed centrally and are invested in collateralised bank deposits or AAA credit rated institutional money market funds.
Money market funds are backed by institutions in the US and the EU, which, in turn, invest in other funds, including sovereign funds.
This means our credit exposure is a mix of US and EU sovereign default risk and financial institution default risk.
Fluctuations in exchange rates As a global business, currency fluctuations can significantly affect our Movements in the exchange rates used to translate foreign currencies results of operations, which are reported in US dollars.
Approximately into US dollars may materially adversely affect our financial condition or 40% of our global 2015 Product Sales were in the US, which is expected results of operations.
Additionally, some of our subsidiaries import and to remain our largest single market for the foreseeable future.
Product Sales export goods and services in currencies other than their own functional in other countries are predominantly in currencies other than the US dollar, currency, and so the financial results of such subsidiaries could be affected including the euro, Japanese yen, Chinese renminbi, Australian dollar by currency fluctuations arising between the transaction dates and the and Canadian dollar.
We have a growing exposure to Emerging Market settlement dates for these transactions.
In addition, there are foreign currencies, some of which are subject to exchange controls, and these exchange differences arising on the translation of equity investments currencies, such as that of Venezuela, may be subject to material in subsidiaries.
devaluations against the US dollar.
Major components of our cost base are located in the UK and Sweden, where an aggregate of approximately 20% of our employees are based.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 225 Additional Information Risk continued Economic and financial risks Impact Limited third party insurance coverage If we are found to have a financial liability due to product liability or other In recent years, the costs associated with product liability litigation have increased the cost of, and narrowed the coverage afforded by, litigation, in respect of which we do not have insurance coverage, or if an insurers denial of coverage is ultimately upheld, this could require us to pharmaceutical companies product liability insurance.
To contain insurance costs in recent years, we have continued to adjust our coverage make significant provisions in our accounts relating to legal proceedings and could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
profile, accepting a greater degree of uninsured exposure.
The Group has not held any material product liability insurance since February 2006.
In For more information, please see the Substantial product liability claims addition, where claims are made under insurance policies, insurers may risk on page 223. reserve the right to deny coverage on various grounds.
For example, product liability litigation cases relating to Crestor and Nexium in the US are not covered by third party product liability insurance.
See Note 27 to the Financial Statements from page 186 for details.
Taxation The integrated nature of our worldwide operations can produce The resolution of these disputes can result in a reallocation of profits conflicting claims from revenue authorities as to the profits to be taxed in between jurisdictions and an increase or decrease in related tax costs, and individual countries.
The majority of the jurisdictions in which we operate has the potential to affect our cash flows and EPS.
Claims, regardless of have double tax treaties with other foreign jurisdictions, which provide a their merits or their outcome, are costly, divert management attention and framework for mitigating the incidence of double taxation on our revenues may adversely affect our reputation.
If any of these double tax treaties should be withdrawn or amended, AstraZenecas worldwide operations are taxed under laws in the especially in a territory where a member of the Group is involved in a jurisdictions in which they operate.
International standards governing the taxation dispute with a tax authority in relation to cross-border transactions, global tax environment regularly change.
The Organisation for Economic such withdrawal or amendment could materially adversely affect our Co-operation and Development OECD has proposed a number of business or results of operations, as could a negative outcome of a tax changes under the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS Action Plans.
dispute or a failure by the tax authorities to agree through competent authority proceedings.
See the Financial risk management policies section of the Financial Review on page 76 for tax risk management policies and Note 27 to the Financial Statements on page 186 for details of current tax disputes.
Changes in tax regimes could result in a material impact on the Groups cash tax liabilities and tax charge, resulting in either an increase or a reduction in financial results depending upon the nature of the change.
We represent views to OECD, governments and tax authorities through public consultations to ensure international institutions and governments understand the business implications of law changes.
Specific OECD BEPS recommendations that we expect to impact the Group include changes to patent box regimes, restrictions of interest deductibility and revised transfer pricing guidelines.
Pensions Our pension obligations are largely backed by assets invested across the Sustained falls in these asset values could reduce pension fund solvency broad investment market.
Our most significant obligations relate to the UK levels, which may result in requirements for additional cash, restricting the pension fund.
cash available for business growth.
Similarly, if the present value of the liabilities increase due to a sustained low interest rate environment, an increase in expectations of future inflation, or an improvement in member longevity above that already assumed, this could also reduce pension fund solvency ratios.
The likely increase in the IAS 19 accounting deficit generated by any of these factors may cause the credit rating agencies to review our credit rating, with the potential to negatively affect our ability to raise debt.
See Note 20 to the Financial Statements from page 166 for further details of the Groups pension obligations.
226 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
