Strategic report | Principal risks and uncertainties | 56 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT IS CENTRAL TO THE BOARDS ROLE IN PROVIDING STRATEGIC OVERSIGHT AND STEWARDSHIP OF THE GROUP Risk management Group functional heads including Legal, Reporting our principal risks The board views effective risk management Treasury, Tax, IT, Pensions, HR and and uncertainties as part of its role in providing strategic Insurance also provide input to this The groups principal risks and oversight and stewardship of the group.
process, sharing with the Director of uncertainties identified by the above Inorder to deliver our strategic plans, we Financial Control their view of key risks process during 2015 are detailed in the believe we must understand and respond and what activities are in place or planned following tables.
They are grouped into appropriately to risks and also consider to mitigate them.
external risks, which may occur in the whether additional business opportunities markets or environment in which we A summary of these risk assessments is can be realised through effective risk operate, and operational risks, which are then shared and discussed with the Group management.
related to internal activity linked to our Finance Director and Chief Executive.
We require all of our businesses to The board undertakes an annual review implement appropriate levels of risk The Changes since 2014 highlight the ofthe material risks facing our businesses management to ensure compliance significant variations in the profile of our together with the internal control withrelevant legislation, our overriding principal risks or describe our experience procedures and resources devoted to business principles and group policies and activity over the last year.
It also monitors the groups relating to them.
exposure to these risks as part of the These are the principal risks of the group We have embedded a process for performance reviews undertaken at as a whole and are not in any order of identifying risks and put in place activities each board meeting.
The operational and product to mitigate them.
Our decentralised reviewed by the Audit Committee and all diversity of the group reduces the impact business model empowers the other risks are reviewed by the board.
that any one business risk can have on management of our businesses to the groups results.
Risks suchas the loss The Director of Financial Control holds identify, evaluate and manage the risks of a major site or water use and availability meetings with each of the non-executive they face on a timely basis.
The collated have been reported inprevious years and, directors seeking their feedback on risks from each business are shared with although we remain exposed to them the reviews performed and discussing the respective divisional chief executives and continue to take action to mitigate the key risks and mitigating activities.
who present their divisional risks to the them, we no longer consider them likely Once all non-executive directors have group executive.
been consulted, a board report is The groups Director of Financial Control prepared summarising the full process receives the risk assessments on an and providing an assessment of the annual basis and, with the Group Finance status of risk management across the Director, reviews them with the divisional group.
The key risks, mitigating controls chief executives.
These reviews include and relevant policies are summarised.
questioning the approach taken to risk This report also details when formal management in the businesses, reviewing updates, relating to the key risks, will the detailed risk logs and supporting be provided to the board throughout materials, checking how well processes the year.
are embedded, and questioning how effectively risk management has driven business decisions.
These risks and their impact on business performance KEY are reported during the year and are considered as part of the monthly Risk trend arrows management review process.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Principal risks and uncertainties | 57 EXTERNAL RISKS Risk trend Context and potential impact Mitigation Changes since 2014 Businesses impacted by exchange The US dollar appreciated and the euro MOVEMENT IN EXCHANGE RATES rate volatility, specifically those weakened over the last 12 months ANDINFLATION manufacturing or purchasing in one with the effect that the average US currency and selling in another, dollar euro exchange rate moved by Associated British Foods is a multinational constantly review their currency 15% over that period.
group with operations and transactions related exposures.
The impact on adjusted operating profit in many currencies.
Board approved policies require for 2014 15 from the translation of Changes in exchange rates give rise businesses to hedge, using foreign overseas results into sterling was a loss to transactional exposures within the exchange forward contracts, all of 31m compared with the prior year.
businesses and to translation exposures transactional currency exposures, and Towards the end of the financial year, when the assets, liabilities and results long-term supply or purchase contracts emerging market currencies weakened of overseas entities are translated into which give rise to currency exposures.
Borrowings are largely maintained in the Exchange rates between some of our functional currency of the local operations.
major trading currencies have changed Cross currency swaps are used to markedly this year.
align borrowings with the underlying currencies of the groups net assets.
Refer to note 24 to the financial statements for more information.
We constantly monitor the markets in Our businesses have been affected by FLUCTUATIONS IN COMMODITY which we operate and manage certain the global trends in commodity prices, AND ENERGY PRICES of these exposures through the use the most significant of which have of exchange traded contracts and been low EU and world sugar prices Changes in commodity and energy prices hedging instruments.
that had a substantial effect on the can have a material impact on the groups profitability of our sugar businesses, The commercial implications of operating results, asset values and and a fall in cereal prices which commodity price movements are cashflows.
contributed to lower revenues for continuously assessed and, where AB Agris UK feed business.
appropriate, are reflected in the pricing of our products.
Our approach to risk management AB Sugar is addressing the OPERATING IN GLOBAL MARKETS incorporates potential short-term market consequences of the abolition of Operating in 48 countries with asupply volatility and evaluates longer-term EU sugar quotas in 2017 and the chain covering even more, we are exposed socio-economic and political scenarios.
performance improvement programme to global market forces, fluctuations in is substantially reducing the cost base The groups financial control framework national economies, societal and political and enhancing production efficiency.
and board adopted tax and treasury changes, a range of consumer concerns policies require all businesses to comply No significant regulatory developments and evolving legislation.
fully with relevant local laws.
Provision have impacted our group during 2015 Failure to recognise and respond to any ismade for known issues based although our businesses are subject of these factors could directly impact onmanagements interpretation of to increased enforcement activities the profitability and even the viability country-specific tax law and the in relation to existing regulations in, of our operations.
for example, China and India.
Entering new markets is a risk to We engage with governments, local Activity continued over the last 12 any business.
regulators and community organisations months in preparation for the opening, to contribute to, and anticipate important in September 2015, of Primarks changes in, public policy.
first store in the US, supported by dedicated warehousing.
Extensive research is conducted into each new market that Primark enters, and, in the case of its entry into the US where there is no existing local infrastructure, care has been taken to limit capital investment to a minimum.
Expansion into new markets in Europe is supported by our existing business which has extensive experience of developing a successful retail business model across Western Europe.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report | Principal risks and uncertainties | 58 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES EXTERNAL RISKS CONTINUED Risk trend Context and potential impact Mitigation Changes since 2014 Recipes are regularly reviewed and Our businesses continued to review HEALTH AND NUTRITION reformulated to improve the nutritional their products and to partner with Failure to respond appropriately to health value of our grocery products, all of others to enable a swift and innovative and nutrition concerns in the formulation which are labelled with nutritional response to changing consumer needs.
of our products could result in adverse information.
As examples: across the Jordans range consumer reaction.
of granola and cluster cereals we have We develop partnerships with reduced the sugar content by 12% and, We must also act responsibly across other organisations to help educate using scientific research, AB Mauri the spectrum of food poverty and consumers about making healthy has been developing a way to reduce malnutrition to obesity.
high sodium ingredients such as lower-sodium baking powders.
British Sugar and Azucarera both launched or supported websites aimed at helping people make informed decisions about their food.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk trend Context and potential impact Mitigation Changes since 2014 Safety continues to be the number one Sadly we had one fatality this year WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY priority for our businesses with active which occurred in our operations Many of our operations, by their nature, endorsement and accountability from in Africa.
have the potential for injuries and fatal the chief executives of each business.
Our group reportable injury rate accidents to employees, contractors Our Health and Safety Policy and increased slightly this year from 0.40% and visitors.
practices are firmly embedded in each to 0.48%.
However, our operations business, supporting a strong ethos of across Africa, Australasia and North workplace safety.
Independent audits America continued their downward are conducted to verify implementation trend in reportable injuries.
We have introduced contractor Best practice safety and occupational safety guidance across the group.
health training and guidance are shared across the businesses, co-ordinated from the corporate centre, to supplement the delivery of their own training programmes.
Across the group, product safety is PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY put before economic considerations.
As a leading food manufacturer and Our businesses employ quality control retailer it is fundamental that we manage specialists and operate strict policies the safety and integrity of our products within an organisational culture of throughout the supply chain.
hygiene and product safety to ensure that consistently high standards are maintained in our operations and in the sourcing and handling of raw materials and garments.
We monitor the regulatory environment and emerging scientific research while reviewing our food safety systems for efficacy and legal compliance.
A programme of independent food quality and safety audits is undertaken across all of our manufacturing sites and a due diligence programme is in place to ensure the safety of our retail products.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Principal risks and uncertainties | 59 OPERATIONAL RISKS CONTINUED Risk trend Context and potential impact Mitigation Changes since 2014 We aim to go beyond environmental The environmental performance of OUR USE OF NATURAL compliance.
Our businesses employ the group, with updates by division, RESOURCES AND MANAGING environmental specialists who is reported in the 2015 Corporate use thebest available technologies Responsibility Update at OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT and techniques to reduce our use www.
Our businesses rely on a stable supply of consumables, adapt operations of natural resources some of which to climate change and reduce our are vulnerable to external factors such environmental footprint.
as natural disasters and climate change.
We report group environmental Our operations give rise to a range of performance every year in our emissions including dust, waste water Corporate Responsibility and Annual and waste which, if not controlled, Reports as well as the voluntary could lead to a risk to the environment CDP disclosure formerly Carbon and our local communities.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct Over the year, our businesses have OUR SUPPLY CHAIN AND is designed to ensure suppliers, continued to engage with key suppliers ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES representatives and all with whom on a range of shared issues such as we deal, adhere to our values and maximising environmental and cost Our suppliers are essential to the standards.
The full Code is available efficiencies, maintaining safe workplaces, successful operation of the group.
co. uk supplier code supporting steady employment and We therefore work with them to ensure of conduct.
increasing transparency across reliability and to help them meet acceptable the wider supply chain.
Adherence to the Code is verified standards of product quality and safety, through ABFs supplier audit system We have increased our ethical trade financial stability, ethics, technical with our procurement and operational resources, both on-the-ground and competence and people safety.
teams establishing strong working centrally, to monitor suppliers.
Potential supply chain and ethical business relationships with suppliers to help Primark signed up to Greenpeaces practice risks include: them meet our standards.
Detox campaign and has committed to reputational damage through supply All businesses are required to comply phase out the use of certain chemicals chain weaknesses e. g. poor conditions with the groups Business Principles within the supply chain by 2020. for workers: including its Anti-Bribery and unacceptable and unethical behaviour, Corruption Policy.
including bribery and corruption: impact on reliability of supply and business continuity due to unforeseen incidents e. g. natural disasters: and long-term sustainability of key suppliers.
We seek to understand the changing During the year there has been an BREACHES OF IT AND cyber risks faced by our businesses ongoing focus on raising the awareness INFORMATION SECURITY and take appropriate action.
of all employees of the risks associated with the use of IT.
We have well established processes, Our delivery of efficient and effective group IT security policies and operations is enhanced by the use of technologies in place all of which relevant technologies and the sharing are subject to regular internal audit.
We are therefore subject Access to sensitive data is restricted to potential internal and external cyber and closelymonitored.
threats such as computer viruses and the loss or theft of data.
Robust disaster recovery plans are in place for business critical applications.
There is also the potential for disruption to operations from unforeseen IT and Technical security controls are in place system malfunctions or external attack.
over key IT platforms with the Head of IT Security tasked with identifying and responding to potential security risks.
On behalf of the board Charles Sinclair George Weston John Bason Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
