STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic report Key performance indicators 11.0m Cumulative revenue from E3D Key performance indicators cash generation illustrates the high levels We aim to deliver good sustainable of recurring revenue, strong margins and growth, balanced by our need to continue ability to convert profits to cash effectively to invest in innovation, sales and marketing that are features of our business.
Our in order to achieve this.
The goal is to markets have proven to be more difficult deliver profitable growth as the business over the past year, particularly in Oil & Gas, expands, whilst maintaining a healthy and that is reflected in the KPI trends.
We have set out a range of noteworthy that our recurring revenue was the financial key performance indicators relatively stable, with the majority of the KPIs that help to present a meaningful revenue decline related to initial licence picture of how AVEVA is performing.
fees, and despite a modest reduction in the Taken overall, we believe that this range adjusted profit before tax margin as a result of KPIs which offers insights into our of lower revenues, our business remains revenue, investment, profitability, and highly profitable.
Revenue m Adjusted profit before tax m Dividend per share p Growth in Group revenue We adjust to exclude non-operating items AVEVA has a progressive dividend policy 208.7m 12% 62.1m 21% 30.5p 13% Reflects difficult markets Due to lower revenue Reflects long-term confidence Recurring revenue m Adjusted profit before tax margin % Cash conversion % Provides visibility We aim to deliver profitable growth A measure of our ability to turn profits into cash 158.2m 5% 29.8% 10% 83% 19% Resilient performance Remains highly profitable Should return closer to 100% R&D expenses m Adjusted basic EPS p Operating cash flow m Investment in innovation We adjust to exclude certain non-cash and AVEVA remains a highly cash generative business exceptionalitems 32.7m 15% 45.1m 36% 74.5p 16% Lower cost operations Significant March 2015 billings Lower profit in year 21 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties As with any organisation there are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups long-term performance.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are as follows: Strategic and market risks Risk Likelihood Impact Change Mitigation Dependency on key markets AVEVA is expanding into new market segments AVEVA generates a substantial amount of its income such as mining, petrochemicals and AEC, albeit from customers whose main business is derived from from a relatively small base.
It is central to our capital projects in the Oil & Gas, Power and Marine strategy to diversify our customer offerings into markets.
World economic conditions or funding Owner Operators and Plant operations.
This will constraints for new capital projects may adversely help secure a longer-term income stream that affect our financial performance, as we have extends beyond the design build phase of these experienced during 2014 15. capital projects.
In addition, our ever-expanding global presence provides some mitigation from over-reliance on key geographic markets.
Likelihood Impact Change Competition We carefully monitor customers and other suppliers AVEVA operates in highly competitive markets that serve operating within our chosen markets.
We stay close the Oil & Gas, Power and Marine markets.
We believe to our customers and ensure we have a strong that there are a relatively small number of significant understanding of their needs and their expectations competitors serving our markets.
However, some of from the AVEVA product development roadmap.
these competitors could, in the future, pose a greater competitive threat, particularly if they consolidate or form Recently we have launched AVEVA E3D.
strategic or commercial relationships among themselves This, together with a number of other new or with larger, well capitalised companies.
Further threats products, will help cement our relationships with are posed by the entrance, into AVEVAs markets, of a our customers and reinforce our market position.
much larger technology competitor or transformational technology, such as Cloud-based solutions.
Likelihood Impact Change Professional Services We employ experienced industry professionals The development of the Groups Enterprise Solutions within our professional services team and continue represents a significant opportunity for the Group but to build commercial partnerships with third party this is a market with different characteristics compared to systems integrators and other vendors.
our traditional Engineering & Design software products.
It therefore brings different challenges and opportunities We have rigorous processes and controls for the for the Group which we must manage effectively.
appraisal of potential commercial opportunities prior to any bid being submitted.
Bids are appraised Most significantly, the deployment for our customers on grounds of technical complexity, as well as of an enterprise solution will involve some degree of financial and commercial risk.
consulting and or implementation work.
This requires specialist knowledge to be available and well managed potentially in many geographic locations.
In some instances we may opt to partner with a third party for this work and this relationship also requires careful management and maintenance.
Likelihood Impact Change Identification and successful integration of acquisitions While each acquisition and integration is unique, In recent years, the Group has completed a number AVEVA has an experienced team to appraise and of acquisitions and expects to continue to review complete acquisitions.
The Groups experience acquisition targets as part of its strategy.
The integration of previous bolt-on acquisitions provides a good of acquisitions involves a number of unique risks, understanding of potential integration risks and as including diversion of managements attention, failure a result we feel well placed to successfully manage to retain key personnel of the acquired business, failure these risks.
Were the Group to undertake a much to realise the benefits anticipated to result from the larger acquisition, we would ensure that appropriate acquisition, and successful integration of the acquired resources and experience were applied to manage intellectual property.
the risks and that we had access to the best possible professional advice.
22 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
