Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 54 Principal risks Risks are identied as principal based on the likelihood ofoccurrence and the potential impact on the Group.
The Groups principal risks are identied below, together with a description of how we mitigate those risks.
Defence spending The Group is dependent on defence spending.
Description Impact Mitigation In 2015, 92% of the Groups sales were Lower defence spending by the Groups The business is geographically spread across defence-related.
majorcustomers could have a material US, UK and international defence markets: adverseeffect on the Groups future results In the US, further clarity regarding potential Defence spending by governments can andnancial condition.
market improvement was gained after Congress uctuatedepending on political considerations, reached agreement on anew budget deal that budgetary constraints, specic threats and provides for defence and domestic programme movements in the international oil price.
spending above the Budget Control Act caps There have been constraints on government through 2017. expenditure in a number of the Groups principal In the UK, the Strategic Defence and Security markets, in particular in the US and UK.
Review announced in November provides With the Eurozone area experiencing financial clarity, continuity and stability for the business.
difficulties, affordability continues tobe a key An increased budget for defence equipment focus for customers.
overall includes significant investments in military aerospace, maritime, cyber and Some countries economies may be inuenced intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance by oil prices, with consequent reduced defence capabilities andongoing support for spending.
In Saudi Arabia, regional tensions continue to dictate that defence remains a high priority.
The diverse product and services portfolio is marketed across a range of defence markets.
BAE Systems has a growing portfolio of commercial businesses, including commercial avionics and the commercial areas of the Applied Intelligence business.
Sales in commercial markets represented 8% of the Groups sales in2015.
Government customers The Groups largest customers are governments.
Description Impact Mitigation The Group has long-standing relationships Deterioration in the Groups principal Government customers have sophisticated andsecurity arrangements with a number of government relationships resulting in the procurement and security organisations with itsgovernment customers, including its three failureto obtain contracts or expected funding which the Group can have long-standing largest customers, the governments of the appropriations, adverse changes in the terms relationships with well-established and UK, US and Saudi Arabia, and their agencies.
ofits arrangements with those customers or understood terms of business.
Itis important that these relationships and their agencies, or the termination of contracts In the event of a customer terminating a arrangements are maintained.
could have a material adverse effect on the contract for convenience, the Group would Groups future results and financial condition.
In the defence and security industries, typically be paidfor work done and governments can typically modify contracts commitments made atthe time of termination.
fortheir convenience orterminate them at shortnotice.
Long-term USgovernment contracts, for example, are funded annually andare subject to cancellation if funding appropriations for subsequent periodsare notmade.
The Groups performance on its contracts with some government customers is subject to financial audits and other reviews which can result in adjustments to prices and costs.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 55 3. International market The Group operates in an international market.
Description Impact Mitigation BAE Systems is an international company The occurrence of any such events could have a The Group has a balanced portfolio of businesses conducting business in a number of regions, material adverse effect on the Groups future across a number of markets internationally.
including the US and the Middle East.
The Groups policy is to hedge all material rm The risks of operating in some countries include: transactional exposures.
political changes impacting the business The Groups contracts are often long-term in environment: economic downturns, political nature and, consequently, it may be able to instability and civil disturbances: changes in mitigate these risks over the terms of those government regulations and administrative contracts.
policies: the imposition ofrestraints on the movement of capital: the introduction of Political risk insurance is held in respect of burdensome taxes ortariffs: and the inability to export contracts not structured on a obtain or maintain the necessary export licences.
The Group is exposed to translational volatility arising from movements in currency exchange rates, particularly in respect of the USdollar, Euro, Saudi Riyal and Australian dollar.
Competition in international markets The Groups business is subject to significant competition in international markets.
Description Impact Mitigation The Groups business plan depends upon its The Groups business and future results may The Group has an international, multi-market ability to win and contract for high-quality new beadversely impacted if it is unable to compete presence, a balanced portfolio of businesses, programmes, an increasing number of which are adequately and obtain new business in the leading capabilities and a track record of expected to be in markets outside the UK and US.
markets in which it operates.
delivery on its commitments to its customers.
The Group is dependent upon UK and US The Group continues to invest in research and government support in relation to a number development, and to reduce its cost base and ofits business opportunities in export markets.
improve efficiencies, to remain competitive.
In the UK, export contracts can be structured on a  basis and government support can also involve military training, ministerial support for promotional activities and financial support through UK Export Finance.
In the US, most of the Groups defence export sales are delivered through theForeign Military Sales process, under which the importing government contracts with the US government.
Laws and regulations The Group is subject to risk from a failure to comply with laws and regulations.
Description Impact Mitigation The Group operates in a highly-regulated Failure by the Group, or its sales representatives, BAE Systems has a well-established legal and environment across many jurisdictions and marketing advisers or others acting on its regulatory compliance structure aimed at ensuring issubject, without limitation, to regulations behalf, to comply with these regulations could adherence to regulatory requirements and relating to import-export controls, money result in fines and penalties and or the suspension identifying any restrictions that could adversely laundering, false accounting, anti-bribery and or debarment of the Group from government impact the Groups activities.
It is important that the contracts or the suspension of the Groups Internal and external market risk assessments Group maintains a culture in which it focuses export privileges, which could have a material form an important element of ongoing onembedding responsible business behaviours adverse effect on the Group.
corporate development and training processes.
and that all employees act in accordance with Reduced access to export markets could have the requirements of the Groups policies, A uniform global policy and process for the amaterial adverse effect on the Groups future including the Code of Conduct, at all times.
appointment of advisers engaged in business results and financial condition.
Export restrictions could become more stringent and political factors or changing international The special compliance officer, appointed circumstances could result in the Group being pursuant to commitments concerning ongoing unable to obtain or maintain necessary export regulatory compliance made in the course of licences.
the 2011 settlement with the US Department ofState, concluded his monitorship in May 2014 and, at the invitation of BAE Systems, agreed to remain in a limited capacity for a limited further period of time.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 56 Principal risks continued 6.
Contract risk and execution The Group has many contracts, including a small number of large contracts and xed-price contracts.
Description Impact Mitigation In 2015, 48% of the Groups sales were The inability of the Group to deliver on its Contract-related risks and uncertainties generated by its 12 largest programmes.
contractual commitments, the loss, expiration, aremanaged under the Groups mandated At31December 2015, the Group had seven suspension, cancellation or termination of Lifecycle Management process.
programmes with order backlog in excess anyone of its large contracts or its failure A significant proportion of the Groups largest of1bn.
toanticipate technical problems or estimate contracts are with the UK Ministry of Defence.
accurately and control costs on xed-price A significant portion of the Groups revenue In the UK, development programmes are contracts could have a material adverse isderived from xed-price contracts.
Actual normally contracted with appropriate levels effecton the Groups future results and costs may exceed the projected costs on which ofrisk being initially held by the customer and financial condition.
the xed prices are agreed and, since these contract structures are used to mitigate risk on contracts can extend over many years, it can be production programmes, including where the difficult to predict the ultimate outturn costs.
customer and contractor share cost savings andoverruns against target prices.
It is important that the Group maintains a culture in which it delivers on its projects The Group has a well-balanced spread of withintight tolerances of quality, time and programmes and significant order backlog costperformance in a reliable, predictable which provides forward visibility.
The Group has limited exposure to xed-price design and development activity which is in general more risk intensive than xed-price production activity.
Robust bid preparation and approvals processes are well established throughout the Group, with decisions required to be taken at the appropriate level in line with clear delegations of authority.
Contract cash proles The Group is dependent on the award timing and cash prole of its contracts.
Description Impact Mitigation The Groups profits and cash ows are Amounts receivable under the Groups defence The Groups balance sheet continues to be dependent, to a significant extent, on the contracts can be substantial and, therefore, the managed conservatively in line with its policy timing of, or failure to receive, award of timing of, or failure to receive, awards and toretain an investment grade credit rating and defencecontracts and the prole of cash associated cash advances and milestone payments to ensure operating exibility.
could materially affect the Groups profits and The Group monitors a rolling forecast of its cash ows for the periods affected, thereby liquidity requirements to ensure that there is reducing cash available to meet the Groups sufficient cash to meet its operational needs cash allocation priorities, potentially resulting in and maintain adequate headroom.
the need to arrange external funding and impacting its investment grade credit rating.
Pension funding The Group has an aggregate funding deficit in its dened benefit pension schemes.
Description Impact Mitigation In aggregate, there is an actuarial deficit Further increases in pension scheme deficits Following triennial funding valuations of the between the value of the projected liabilities of mayrequire the Group to increase the amount Groups UK pension schemes during 2014, the Groups dened benefit pension schemes of cash contributions payable to these schemes, where appropriate, revised deficit recovery and the assets they hold.
thereby reducing cash available to meet the planshave been agreed which run until 2026.
Groups other cash allocation priorities.
The deficits may be adversely affected by Growth of the dened benefit pension changes in a number of factors, including In December 2015, BAE Systems, Airbus and liabilitiesis expected to be curtailed as, in investment returns, long-term interest rate and thescheme trustees agreed to work towards theUK, new employees have been offered price ination expectations, and anticipated the creation of a separate Airbus section of the dened contribution benets since April 2012 members longevity.
BAE Systems Pension Scheme Main Scheme and, in the US, with effect from January 2013, in2016 with the allocation of the deficit to employees no longer accrue salary-related theBAE Systems and Airbus sections based on benets in dened benefit schemes.
This allocation In 2013, the trustees of a number of UK pension methodology is considered to represent a better schemes entered into arrangements to insure estimate of thedecit allocation and has been against longevity risk for current pensioners, reected inthe allocation of the IAS 19 pension covering a total of 4.4bn of liabilities, and, in deficit inthe Main Scheme at 31 December 2014, 38% of eligible Main Scheme pensioners 2015.
The impact of this change on the opted to exchange future increases on part of amounts allocated at 31 December 2015 is an their pensions for higher non-increasing pensions.
increase of 187m 153m post-tax in the Groups share of the reported IAS 19 deficit.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 57 9.
Information technology security The Group could be negatively impacted by information technology security threats.
Description Impact Mitigation The security threats faced by the Group Failure to combat these risks effectively could The Group has a broad range of measures includethreats to its information technology negatively impact the Groups reputation inplace, including appropriate tools and infrastructure, unlawful attempts to gain access among its customers and the public, cause techniques, to monitor and mitigate this risk.
to its proprietary or classied information and disruption to its business operations, and the potential for business disruptions associated couldresult in a negative impact on the with information technology failures.
Groupsfuture results and financial condition.
People The Groups strategy is dependent on its ability to recruit and retain people with appropriate talent and skills.
Description Impact Mitigation Delivery of the Groups strategy and business The loss of key employees or inability to attract The Group recognises that its employees are plan is dependent on its ability to compete to the appropriate people on a timely basis, could keyto delivering its strategy and business recruit and retain people with appropriate adversely impact itsability to deliver its strategy, plan, and focuses on developing the existing talentand skills, including those with innovative meet the business plan and, accordingly, have workforce and hiring talented people to meet technological capabilities.
anegative impact on the Groups future results current and future requirements.
With constraints on defence spending in its The Group has well-established graduate UKand US markets, the Groups business plan recruitment and apprenticeship programmes istargeting an increasing level of business in and, in order to maximise the contribution that international export markets.
It is important its workforce can make to the performance of thatthe Group recruits and retains management the business, has an effective through-career with the necessary international skills and capability development programme.
experience in the relevant jurisdictions.
In order to seek to maximise its talent pool, theGroup is committed to creating a diverse and inclusive environment for its employees.
BAE Systems continues to embed its ethics programme globally, driving the right behaviours by supporting employees in makingethical decisions and embedding responsible business practices.
Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to the Group, or which the Group currently deems immaterial, may also have anadverse effect on the business or financial condition of the Group.
Strategic report The Strategic report was approved by the board of directors on 17 February 2016.
David Parkes Company Secretary BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 |
