Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 57 Risk management and internal control Risk management Effective risk management underpins the delivery of the Groups objectives.
It is essential to protecting its reputation and generating sustainable shareholder value.
Balfour Beatty identifies key risks and applies controls at an early stage and develops action plans to eliminatethem or mitigate their impact and likelihood to an acceptable level.
For more information, refer to pages 42 to 50.
The Board has applied principle C2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code by embedding continuous risk management processes throughout the Group at all levels which form an integral part of day-to-day business activity.
They are designed to help management to identify and understand the risks they face in delivering business objectives and the status of the key controls in place for managing those risks.
Roles and responsibilities The Board is responsible for Balfour Beattys system of risk management and internal control.
It sets the Groups appetite for risk in pursuit of its strategic objectives, and the level of risk that can be taken by Group, divisional and business unit management without specific Board approval.
Group policies, procedures and delegated authority levels set by the Board provide the means by which risks are reviewed and escalated to the appropriate level within the Group, up to and including the Board, for consideration and approval.
The roles and responsibilities of the Board, its Committees, and divisional and business unit management during the year are set out below.
Board Responsible for the Groups systems of Issues and reviews Group risk risk management and internal control management policy Determines Group appetite for risk in Annually reviews effectiveness of achieving its strategic objectives.
Group risk management and internal control systems Reviews the Groups key risks and risk responses.
Audit and Risk Committee Regularly reviews the effectiveness Receives regular reports on internal of Group internal controls, including and external audit and other systems to identify, assess, manage and assurance activities monitor risks.
Annually assesses Group risk management and internal control systems Reviews effectiveness of the Groups helpline and other channels for raising concerns about Code of Conduct breaches.
Group Tender and Investment Committee Reviews and approves tenders and Critically appraises significant tender investments, triggered by certain proposals and investment divestment financial thresholds or other risk factors.
opportunities, with a specific focus on risk.
Safety and Sustainability Committee Reviews Group management of nonReceives regular reports on financial risks such as health and safety, implementation of Group policies and and sustainability.
Group management Strategic leadership Strategic plan and annual budget process Responsible for ensuring that the Reviews risk management and Groups risk management policy is assurance activities and processes implemented and embedded Monthly quarterly finance and Ensures appropriate actions are taken performance reviews.
to manage strategic risks and other key risks.
Divisional management Responsible for risk management Reviews key risks and mitigation and internal control systems within plans monthly its division Reviews and challenges business unit Ensures that business units assurance plans responsibilities are discharged.
Reviews results of assurance activities Escalates key risks to Group management and the Board.
4. Business unit management Maintains an effective system of risk Maintains and regularly reviews project, management and internal control within functional and strategic risk registers its business unit and projects.
Reviews mitigation plans Plans, executes and reports on assurance activities.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 58 Risk management and internal control continued Risk management process the annual review of the strategy and plans of each division Balfour Beattys risk management policy requires that all divisions and of the Group as a whole in order to identify the risks to and those business units within them identify and assess the risks the Groups achievement of its overall objectives and, where to which they are exposed and which could impact on the ability to appropriate, any relevant mitigating actions deliver their, and the Groups, objectives.
monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review of results and forecasts by executive Directors and management, Identified risk events, their causes and possible consequences are including particular areas of business or project risk.
This is used recorded in risk registers, with details of the likelihood and potential to update managements understanding of the environment in business impact and the control systems in place to manage them which the Group operates and the methods used to mitigate and analysed and, if required, additional actions developed and put in control the risks identified place to mitigate or eliminate unwanted exposures: and individuals allocated responsibility for evaluating and managing these risks to gateway reviews requiring risk, uncertainty and control an agreed timescale.
assessment at all stages of project development and at all levels of the business from business unit level to Board Committee if The Group sets delegated authorities which are the trigger for value, or perceived exposure, exceeds certain thresholds matters requiring Group senior management or Board approval.
regular reporting, monitoring and review of the effectiveness of In relation to bidding, this means that projects above a certain value, health, safety and environmental processes.
These processes are with certain features that import certain risks or involve a move into subject to independent audit and certification to internationally new markets or work types, require approval by the Group Tender recognised standards and Investment Committee, with divisions having a delegated level of authority as well as their own approval and risk management the review and authorisation of proposed investment, divestment committees and triggers.
and capital expenditure through the Boards Committees and the Board itself Reporting structures ensure that risks are monitored continually, specific policies set out in the Group Finance Manual covering mitigation plans are reviewed and significant exposures are the financial management of the Group, including arrangements escalated from project level to business unit management to with the Groups bankers and bond providers, controls on foreign divisional and Group senior management.
exchange dealings and management of currency and interest rate A range of procedures is used to monitor the effectiveness exposures, insurance, capital expenditure procedures, application of internal controls, including management assurance, risk of accounting policies and financial controls management processes and independent assurance provided legal compliance risks which are addressed through specific byinternal audit and other specialist third parties.
policies and training on such matters as ethics, competition and Improvements to the risk management framework were data protection laws madethroughout 2015 as outlined on pages 42 and 43.
Continuing Group-wide risk management standards which are embedded co-ordination of commercial and more general business risk and throughout the Group assurance reporting is ongoing with financial and general business reviews and tests by the internal audit function of critical business risk being subject to regular review.
Further strengthening of financial processes and controls and specific reviews in areas of the risk management and review framework is to be deployed perceived high business risk in 2016 to increase risk oversight and scrutiny.
These processes the Groups ethics helpline and other channels by which staff are detailed further at pages 44 to 50 but in principle will improve are encouraged to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible the approach taken to risk management using a transparent and breaches of the Code of Conduct, improprieties on matters of common approach.
financial reporting and other issues.
Internal control These systems are extended, as soon as possible and as The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk appropriate, to all businesses joining the Group.
management systems and internal control, and regularly reviews their effectiveness.
The divisional CEOs are responsible for ensuring that a comprehensive framework of assurance including internal The Groups systems and controls are designed to ensure that the audit exists within their division and business units which is in Groups exposure to significant risk is managed properly, but the accordance with Group requirements.
Board recognises that any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business The Board continued to assess the effectiveness of the risk objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute management processes and internal controls during 2015 and to assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In addition, not the date of this report.
Such assessment is based on reports made all the material joint ventures in which the Group is involved are to the Board, the Audit and Risk Committee and the Safety and treated, for these purposes, as part of the Group.
Where they are Sustainability Committee, including: not, systems of internal control and risk management are applied the results of internal audits reviews of internal financial controls asagreed between the partners to the joint venture.
a Group-wide certification that effective internal controls had Central to the Groups systems of internal control are its processes been maintained or, where any significant non-compliance or and framework for risk management.
These align with Guidance breakdown had occurred with or without loss, that appropriate on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and remedial action has been or is being taken Business Reporting and were in place throughout 2015 and up to a paper prepared by management on the nature, extent the date of signing this report.
and mitigation of significant risks and on the systems of The Groups systems of internal control operate through a internal controls.
number of different processes, some of which are interlinked.
Principal risks These include: The principal risks that could adversely impact on the Groups a clear system of delegated authorities from the Board to profitability and ability to achieve its strategic objectives are set management with certain matters reserved by the Board outon pages 44 to 50.
