Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 44 Principal risks The Board has made a robust assessment of the principal risks which the Group faces, the controls in place to remove or mitigate these risks and also whether these risks represent new, increased or decreased threats.
The assessment of these risks and controls is part of theongoing management of the business.
The principal risks that could adversely impact the Groups profitability and ability to achieve its strategic objectives are set out below.
In addition, the Chief Financial Officers review starting on page 18 includes discussion on financial risk factors and going concern.
Health and safety Build to Last pillar: Owner: Safety and No change to risk Safe Sustainability Committee Risk description What impact it might have The Group works on significant, complex and potentially Failure to manage these risks could result in harm to, or even hazardous projects which require continuous monitoring and thedeath of, employees, subcontractor staff and members of management of health and safety risks.
thepublic, as well as potential criminal prosecutions, debarment andreputational damage.
Causes Some common themes where health and safety risks have arisen How it is mitigated are recognised and communicated, including: Balfour Beatty has detailed health and safety policies and procedures to minimise such risks.
These are reviewed and monitored by poor risk identification assessment management and external verification bodies.
having processes that fail to promote risk elimination Each division has experienced health and safety professionals who or mitigation provide advice and support and undertake regular reviews.
failure to deliver management leadership The Safety and Sustainability Committee of the Board, as well as management of subcontractors business-level Safety and Health executive leadership teams, meet not briefing people properly before setting them to work regularly throughout the year to develop a consistent approach to failure to follow procedures health and safety best practice.
debarment for safety failures During 2015, business units continued their work on implementing ongoing change programme and performance pressures, Zero Harm action plans.
which may have an effect on people and their ability to remain focused on health and safety risks.
Economic environment Build to Last pillar: Owner: No change to risk Expert The Board Risk description What impact it might have The effects of national or market trends, political change or new Any significant changes in the level or timing of customer spending developments in infrastructure expenditure or procurement may or investment plans could adversely impact the future order book.
cause customers to postpone, reduce or change existing or Such changes could arise from changes in government policy or future projects, which may impact the Groups strategy, business customers failure to secure financing for future projects or for future model, revenue or profitability in the short or medium term.
Causes Financial failure of a customer, including any government or public The business may fail to anticipate or assess national or market sector body, could result in not collecting amounts owed.
events and developments, their potential negative impact, or How it is mitigated the opportunities they present.
Such events or developments, The Groups strategy to focus on the more resilient and stable whether ornot anticipated or correctly assessed, could lead to: infrastructure markets and geographies will help mitigate this risk.
cash pressures for customers and suppliers The effect of spending changes in any one market is mitigated by the Groups broad exposure to infrastructure markets across the globe wider than expected fluctuations in inflation and the continued need for infrastructure spending.
Balfour Beatty increased competition eg in the UK from other EU countries also mitigates the effects of such market conditions by continuing to supply chain failure risk adapt its business model.
reduced revenue or pressure on margins.
It is essential that the financial solvency and strength of These risks may also be triggered or exacerbated by the need, counterparties is always considered before contracts are signed and actual or perceived, to pursue work in a declining market.
this is a specific focus in the current economic climate.
During the life of a contract such assessments are updated and reviewed whenever possible.
The business also seeks to ensure that it is notover-reliant on any one counterparty.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 45 Bidding Build to Last pillar: Owner: Group Tender and Decreased risk Trusted Investment Committee Risk description What impact it might have Through its different businesses, Balfour Beatty seeks to win Failure to estimate accurately the risks, costs versus scope, time to profitable work through a large number of bids.
In some cases it complete, impact of inflation and contractual terms and how best to bids in joint venture with carefully selected partners, often to help manage them could cause financial losses.
manage or spread risks, especially where the Group wants to In the event of disagreement with, failure of, or poor delivery augment its expertise or knowledge of the relevant market.
performance by a joint venture partner, the Group could face financial The Group also invests in infrastructure assets, where success and reputational risks.
depends on a number of assumptions made, at the time of If any of the assumptions behind investment decisions prove investment, on financial modelling, future revenues and costs.
incorrect, the profitability of those investments could be reduced.
Balfour Beattys success depends on its ability to identify, price How it is mitigated and execute the right volume and quality of bids to maintain a The Group operates to consistent and shared policies and profitable, sustainable order book.
This in turn requires that it has minimum commercial expectations including acceptable margins.
a competitive business model and overheads.
Alongside targeted recruitments a wide and ongoing range of Causes initiatives has been undertaken across all disciplines within the Unrealistic programme Group including Cash is our Compass and High Value Selling to drive increased commercial awareness and an understanding of Unrealistic assumptions on cost savings expectations on margins and cost.
Overambitious budgets All bids are subject to rigorous estimating and tendering Work scope not understood or realistically costed processes as part of the gateway review process within the risk Poor partner selection management framework.
Customer credit and late payment risks The Group has defined delegated authority levels for approving all Partner and subcontractor performance and credit risks tenders and infrastructure investments.
Inability to make profit from infrastructure assets Reviews are conducted following all tenders to ensure lessons are Failure to ensure the Groups overhead structure remains learnt and applied to future tenders.
Before entering into a joint venture agreement, the Group reviews the relevant skills, experience, resources and values of joint venture partners to understand how they complement its own.
Investment appraisals are performed and reviewed by experienced professionals.
The Group analyses the risks associated with revenues and costs and, where appropriate, establishes contractual and other risk mitigations.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 46 Principal risks continued Project execution Build to Last pillar: Owner: No change to risk Trusted Group management Risk description How it is mitigated The Group works on complex design, engineering, construction It is essential that each business area has defined operating and asset management projects.
procedures to address the risks inherent in project delivery.
The revision of the Group risk management framework and the Successful delivery of many of these projects is dependent reinforcing of Group policy and principles encourage prudent and onthe effective implementation and maintenance of a range of realistic financial planning.
operational and commercial procedures and controls, backed up by appropriate training, operational systems, clear accountabilities The Group has instigated an increased focus on identifying, and oversight, accurate, realistic and timely reporting, and understanding and reporting risks inherent in projects such as the regular review.
accuracy and timeliness of cost and cash forecasting supported by consistent application of strong commercial management and It is also dependent on the combined availability and effective contract administration processes.
management of subcontractors and other service providers.
Finally, it relies upon many complex, technical and commercial Alongside these measures, targeted recruitment of key staff within judgements and estimates regarding cost, value, progress and project delivery teams and senior management, together with likely or practicable outcomes.
ongoing and focused training of staff, has strengthened the ability ofthe Group to successfully manage and deliver projects.
Causes Unrealistic progress assessments and cost to Projects are subject to greater and more direct senior management complete judgements oversight and challenge.
Allied with this, integrated reviews of projects across audit, risk, quality, commercial, operations and Overestimating the Groups ability to recover claims within finance disciplines are now in place.
thetimeframe or in the amounts estimated Incomplete visibility and appreciation of scale of The My Contribution initiative has delivered a significant number commercial judgements oflocal level improvements in project delivery including efficiencies in service level agreements, greater use of BIM technology and Inaccurate and or incomplete cost and value data or failure resource allocation.
A strong pipeline of ideas will be assessed toanalyse and report correctly, which could arise due to poor across 2016 to drive further improvements.
training, lack of supervision, lack of accountability or fear of reporting bad news The Group also has professional indemnity cover to provide Inadequate experience, independent challenge from support further safeguards.
functions such as audit, risk, quality, commercial, operations Balfour Beatty monitors the performance of joint ventures, joint and finance.
venture partners, subcontractors and suppliers throughout the What impact it might have lifecycle of a project.
Failure to manage or deliver against contracted customer requirements on time, budget and to an appropriate quality could result in issues such as contract disputes, rejected claims, design issues, liquidated damages, cost overruns or failure to achieve customer savings which in turn harm Balfour Beattys profitability and reputation.
The Group may also be exposed to long-term obligations including litigation and costs to rectify defective work.
Execution failure on a high-profile project could result in significant reputational damage and costs.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 47 Supply chain Build to Last pillar: Owner: No change to risk Lean Group management Risk description How it is mitigated The Group is heavily reliant on its supply chain partners for The Group aims to develop long-term relationships with key successful operational delivery, which means it is also exposed to subcontractors, working closely with them to understand their a variety of risks in the supply chain including availability, financial operations.
It develops contingency plans to address subcontractor stability, technical ability, quality, safety, environmental, social failure, and also obtains project retentions, bonds and or letters of and ethical.
credit from subcontractors, where appropriate tomitigate the impact of any insolvency.
Causes Supply chain failure risk, exacerbated during, and when Staff are encouraged through the My Contribution programme emerging from, tough economic conditions to generate ideas for more effective procurement and resourcing efficiencies have already been made in material and plant costs.
Retention of subcontracted parties in buoyant markets This initiative will be further developed in 2016.
A subcontractors failure to perform to an appropriate standard and quality, which could cause project delays, reducing Balfour Rigorous adherence to the Groups risk management framework Beattys ability to meet contractual commitments and harming and the gateway review process allows for early and ongoing its reputation assessment of the appropriateness of resource allocation, including third-party dependencies.
Supply chain operating to lower standards safety, ethics, quality, material stewardship, child labour, forced labour The Group undertakes audits of key suppliers within projects Failure to deliver targeted procurement savings to ensure they are in a position to consistently deliver against requirements.
Failure to comply with Group supply agreements Unethical treatment of the supply chain.
Balfour Beatty aims to work as much as possible with preferred suppliers and subcontractors who undergo rigorous, risk-based What impact it might have prequalification processes and share its values.
It also aims to avoid Failure of a subcontractor or supplier would result in the Group becoming over-reliant on any one supplier or subcontractor.
having to find a replacement or undertaking the task itself.
This could result in delays, additional costs or a reduction in quality owing to lack of expertise.
The Group retains commercial as well as reputational responsibility for performance shortcomings by suppliers and subcontractors, whether in terms of quality, safety, environmental, social, technical or ethical standards.
Mistreatment of suppliers, subcontractors and their staff, or poor ethical standards in the supply chain, could lead to significant reputational harm for Balfour Beatty.
Transformation programme Build to Last pillar: Owner: Increased risk All The Board Risk description What impact it might have The Build to Last transformation programme is being delivered Failure to meet the target of 100 million cost out and 200 million throughout the business in order to improve operating efficiency.
There is a risk that deploying such a wide range of initiatives Failure to win new and retain existing business.
required to meet the objectives of Build to Last creates a high level of disruption to the delivery of day-to-day operations and Failure to attract and retain the best talent in the industry.
theBuild to Last programme itself.
There is also the risk of management losing focus on existing key Causes deliverables and market opportunities.
Ineffective change management during the implementation How it is mitigated of the Build to Last programme could cause the risk to be The implications and required controls associated with the Build to realised via: Last programme have been well considered.
A suite of mitigations excessive drive to deliver anticipated outcomes are in place to ensure successful delivery including: resource financial, physical and people being diverted from Build to Last champions are embedded within each business for the day-to-day operational priorities towards realising new constant dialogue and direction initiatives and addressing legacy problems senior leadership communication across the businesses is clear employee fatigue with change programme and loss of and frequent focus owing to a perceived high number and frequency employee surveys form a key part of the programme ofnew initiatives the Build to Last delivery programme is phased over several years loss of key people and intellectual resource through rather than a one-off delivery dissatisfaction with the programme leaders throughout the business frequently monitor the delivery new systems and processes being used without appropriate and impacts of the programme controls being in place and or tested.
senior leadership are well experienced in delivering business transformation successfully.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 48 Principal risks continued People Build to Last pillar: Owner: Increased risk Expert The Board Risk description How it is mitigated Inability to recruit and retain the best people may weaken the Change management initiatives are well embedded within the Groups ability to meet its strategic objectives.
business and aligned to the Build to Last transformation programme.
Causes All potential recruits for key roles in the organisation are measured Failure to attract and retain skilled staff against a leadership framework.
Businesses within the Group undertake organisation and people reviews to review the roles, Distraction and impact on morale due to transformation competencies, performance and potential of personnel.
programmes and continued operational issues Inability to successfully promote the right people through Recruitment and retention is measured and regularly reviewed succession planning across all parts of the business.
Commercial and project management quality performance A Group-wide employee engagement survey was conducted in New staff unfamiliar with culture and procedures 2015 to measure engagement and appropriate actions are being developed and communicated.
Lack of a diverse workforce Loss of former staff with traditional bidding and execution skills The Groups succession planning process to identify and develop high-potential personnel is reviewed regularly within the organisation Deterioration of client relationships.
What impact it might have Balfour Beatty regularly reviews its remuneration arrangements to Failure to recruit and retain appropriately skilled people could ensure they are appropriate to help it attract, motivate and retain harm the Groups ability to win or perform specific contracts and key employees.
A high level of staff turnover can result in a drop in confidence in the business within the market, client relationships being lost and an inability to focus on business improvements.
Business conduct compliance Build to Last pillar: Owner: No change to risk Trusted The Board Risk description What impact it might have The Group operates in various markets that present business Failure by the Group, or employees and third parties acting on its conduct-related risks involving fraud, bribery or corruption, behalf or in partnership, to observe the highest standards of integrity whether by its own staff or via third parties such as agents, and conduct could result in civil and or criminal penalties, debarment partners or subcontractors.
Those risks are higher in some and reputational damage.
Overall, the construction industry has How it is mitigated ahigher risk profile than other industries.
Balfour Beatty has a proactive approach to assessing and addressing Causes corruption risks.
It promotes compliance with its Code of Conduct Corruption and in areas such as competition and false claims fraud.
The Ethics and Compliance function, together with compliance officers in Bribery the business, are responsible for embedding and monitoring the Fraud false claims compliance programme and investigating any alleged breaches of it.
Unfair competition The risk of business conduct compliance breaches by third parties is Human rights abuses, such as child and other labour standards harder to control, but the Group has a range of risk assessment, due generally, illegal workers, human trafficking and modern slavery diligence and procurement controls that are designed to identify and Unethical treatment of and by the supply chain minimise such risks.
Balfour Beatty works with very few agents, all Other emerging ethical risks of whom undergo a rigorous due diligence and approval process.
Risk of ethics and values being compromised when times are tough, not just in high-risk markets.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 49 Legal and regulatory Build to Last pillar: Owner: No change to risk Trusted The Board Risk description What impact it might have The Group operates in diverse territories and its businesses are Changes to local laws and regulations could lead to legal subject to a variety of complex, demanding and evolving legal, proceedings, investigations or disputes resulting in business taxand regulatory requirements.
disruption ranging from additional project costs to potential debarment and reputational damage.
Such action could also impact Causes upon the valuation of assets within that territory.
Increasingly, Data protection and privacy businesses are the target of cybercrime, which can result in loss of Information security lapse confidential, personal or commercial data, disruption to operations Cybercrime and associated costs.
Sometimes Balfour Beatty may be the target of state-sponsored cyber activities purely because of its Government regulatory enquiry and enforcement actions customer base.
Adverse changes of law, including changes to tax law How it is mitigated Local procurement laws The Group monitors and responds to tax, legal and regulatory Debarment or blacklisting.
developments and requirements in the territories in which it operates.
Local legal and regulatory frameworks are further considered as part of any Group decision to conduct business in a new country.
Data protection and information security programmes are in place across the Group, and cybercrime and other information security risks are assessed on a regular basis.
Environment and sustainability Build to Last pillar: Owner: Safety and No change to risk Expert Sustainability Committee Risk description What impact it might have The Groups activities can have a positive or negative impact Failure to address these risks and to execute projects to meet on the natural environment and the communities it operates in.
the Groups environmental and sustainability goals could result The Groups activities and their location mean that environmental in significant potential liabilities, reputational damage, an inability and sustainability risks need to be identified, monitored to win future work and in some operational regions potential and managed.
Causes How it is mitigated Environmental risk may arise leading to a breach of compliance The Groups Blueprint strategy provides a framework for its and incident due to: operating businesses to accommodate and embed environment andsustainability into operations.
Issues such as climate change failure to deliver leadership andresource use are considered in risk management activities at ineffective management of subcontractors thebusiness unit as well as project level.
poor risk identification assessment Balfour Beattys business processes are used to identify potential having processes that fail to promote risk elimination risks and opportunities for the business.
Management systems are or mitigation in place to control some of the aforementioned risks and in addition failure to follow procedures the Group is subject to external audits undertaken by third parties.
not briefing people properly before setting them to work Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are also externally assured seepage failure to identify emerging regulatory requirements.
40 to ensure that the data is correct.
The reporting of inaccurate greenhouse gas GHG data and other data needed for sustainability performance reporting may mean the Group is unaware of its actual impact and expose it to reputational damage and fines.
Unethical unsustainable sourcing eg timber, forced labour, child labour could lead to reputational damage and impact Balfour Beattys ability to tender for work.
Insufficient management support and resourcing to achieve the Groups environment and sustainability goals.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 50 Principal risks continued Legacy pension liabilities Build to Last pillar: Owner: No change to risk Lean The Board Risk description What impact it might have The Group remains exposed to significant defined benefit Failure to manage these risks adequately could lead to the Group pension risks.
being exposed to significant additional liabilities.
Causes How it is mitigated The size of historic pension obligations is largely related to the The Group constructively engages with the trustees of the pension investment performance of the assets held in the pension funds, funds to ensure that the the funds assets and liabilities are managed net of the change in the value of the funds liabilities.
The latter in a way which reduces the likelihood of an unexpected cost to the are typically related to changes in the long-term outlook for Company.
The Groups main UK fund has hedged over 65% of its interest rates, inflation and life expectancy.
exposure to interest rate and inflation movements.
The size of the obligations could also be adversely influenced by intervention from regulators or legislators.
Balfour Beatty also faces significant risks and uncertainties that are common to many companies including financial and treasury, communications and marketing, wider information security, business continuity and crisis management, and hazard risks.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three-year period to 31 December 2018.
The Directors consider this period to be appropriate because this is the period aligned to the current order book or for which there is a good pipeline of potential new projects.
This period also allows greater certainty over the forecasting assumptions used in labour and material pricing, skills and availability.
Consequently, the Group performs its medium-term planning over three years.
In its assessment of the viability of the Group, the Directors have considered the need to be successful in implementing the Groups Build to Last programme and focus on strategic priorities of Lean, Expert, Trusted and Safe detailed on pages 14 to 17, as well as each of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties detailed on pages 44 to 50.
In particular the impact of a reduction in revenue, a reduction in margin, an increase in operating costs, the inability to access financing and a slowdown in the Groups PPP disposal programme.
The Directors have also considered the Groups income and expenditure projections, the Groups projected cash position, bank facilities, its maturity profile and covenants, the borrowing powers allowed under the Companys Articles of Association and the fact that the Companys PPP investments comprise reasonably realisable securities which can be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary.
Based on the Groups processes for monitoring operating costs, managing Group performance, asset allocation, the portfolio risk profile, gearing, counterparty exposure, liquidity risk and financial controls, the Directors have concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period until 31 December 2018.
Our 2015 Strategic Report, from pages 1 to 50, wasapproved by the Board on 14 March 2016.
Philip Harrison Chief Financial Officer Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
