Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 60 Principal risks and management controls Our principal risks and how we manage them Franco Martinelli Group Finance Director The risks and uncertainties shown and the controls and mitigation plans in Risk identification, on pages 64 to 69 are those that the place that are intended to manage and evaluation and Board currently considers to be of reduce their potential impact and ensure, greatest significance to Babcock.
so far as possible, that the assets and management is a reputation of the Group are protected.
How Babcock manages risk fundamental Board The Groups risk management and Babcock has an established, formal internal control systems can, however, process that aims to identify and evaluate responsibility and a only seek to manage, not eliminate, risks and how they are to be managed.
fundamental part of the risk of failure to achieve business A range of internal control processes is objectives, as any system can only in place as part of the risk management managements overall provide reasonable, not absolute, regime.
The Board, principally through assurance against material misstatement approach to strategy, the Audit and Risk Committee, keeps or loss.
under review the risks facing the Group the delivery of objectives and safeguarding Babcocks reputation.
Internal controls k r o w e m a r f t n e Strategic report 61 Board The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys risk management and internal control system.
This is overseen on its behalf by the Audit and Risk Committee which is currently usually attended by all Board members.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviews Babcock has two Security Committees made up of senior functional and aspects of the risk management and control system at its meetings and divisional managers with responsibility for security and information assurance at least once a year formally reviews the systems effectiveness as a whole at Group and divisional level.
They Audit and Risk Security meet regularly to discuss cyber and on behalf of the Board see the effectiveness review statement on Committee Committees other security and information assurance issues and threats facing page 124.
It also receives in-depth presentations on individual major the Group.
The Committees oversee the Groups security and information risks throughout the year.
assurance management infrastructure and specific security projects.
The Group Finance Director is The Audit and Risk Committee receives Chairman of each Committee, regular reports from Ernst & Young, and each is attended by the Groups the internal audit function provider Chief Information Officer and Chief and management reports relating Information Security Officer.
The Board to internal control and risk issues.
receives regular reports on security Internal Audit and information assurance matters.
Operationally, internal control systems are monitored by senior Group management with Divisional Chief Executives having responsibility for risk identification and risk management in their businesses.
See pages 62 to 63 Group risk The Group Risk & Insurance Manager management who reports to the Group Finance Director, working with divisional management teams, keeps the risk register and risk assessment and evaluation process under review and development.
We seek to ensure Employees undertake a selection of a coherent and consistent Group best compulsory risk management training practice approach to risk assessment programmes for example: security, and risk management.
Risk assessments data protection and anti-bribery and made at business unit level are subject corruption training appropriate to their Company to regular review and challenge by roles, in order to increase awareness Group senior management.
employees m e g a n a m k s i R Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 62 Principal risks and management controls continued Our internal controls include: Annual budgets and medium-term Budget process financial plans are reviewed by Group management before submission to the Board for approval.
Updated forecasts for the year are prepared at least quarterly.
The Board receives details of The Chief Executive, Group Finance Management and monthly actual financial performance Director and Divisional Chief Executives financial reporting compared against budget, forecast report to each Board meeting on and the prior year, with a written operating performance and matters commentary on significant variances of potential strategic significance.
Group senior management receives a monthly narrative operating report from all business units.
There is a formal security and information Security and information assurance governance structure in place governance structure to oversee and manage security and similar risks.
The Board regularly reviews and approves Clear delegation and limits a schedule of delegated authorities of authority setting out levels of specific financial decision-making authority delegated by it.
The Group has a large and The Group has a full-time Risk & Insurance comprehensive insurance programme, Insurance Manager who reports annually preferring to place risk in the insurance to the Board on the strategic approach market, where available on acceptable being taken to insurance and on the terms, rather than to self-insure or make placing of the programme.
significant use of captive insurance.
The Board and Group Executive potential threats of claims, their progress Claims and litigation reporting Committee receive monthly summaries and potential outcomes.
The Group has of material disputes and actual or an internal legal service.
All significant credit risks are reviewed by Credit controls Group Finance and an Executive Director, and, where appropriate and available, risk limitation actions are taken.
with supporting training programmes, The Group has a Code of Conduct, Code of Conduct and ethical, which the Company believes meet summarising ethical and anti-bribery anti-bribery and corruption the requirements of adequate and corruption policies, making clear policies and procedures its commitment to the highest ethical procedures under the Bribery Act standards and the ethical standards 2010.
Due diligence is carried out it demands from its employees and on actual or potential business partners.
those who work for it and with whom Those working on our behalf or in it does business.
consortium with us are required to abide by our Code of Conduct or an There is an explicit anti-bribery and equivalent and to undertake not to corruption governance structure in behave corruptly.
See more on our place and detailed policy and procedures Code of Conduct on pages 50 to 51. available on the Babcock website, Strategic report 63 The Group has written policies and These policies and procedures are Group policies and procedures procedures, which are kept under review, available to employees on the Group covering a range of matters intended intranet and are supplemented at to reduce or mitigate risk, such as: divisional level by further business unit health, safety and environmental specific policies and procedures.
policies, security and information assurance, export controls, contracting requirements and guidelines, legal, financial and accounting matters.
All employees have access to a management.
A report on all Whistleblowing hotline confidential whistleblowing hotline with whistleblowing cases and the resultant the opportunity to call, email or write investigations and conclusions is letters detailing any area of concern to submitted to each Audit and Risk be brought to the attention of senior Committee meeting see page 84.
Divisions regularly review the business performance, and also consider Critical supplier reviews vulnerability of key supply chain partners fall-back plans when first deciding to whose continued ability to supply the appoint such suppliers.
Group is considered critical to its All divisions, business units and Group to business and contract performance in Business continuity and disaster functions are required to consider the the event of a major disruption to normal recovery plans need for and put in place appropriate functioning arrangements.
plans to minimise the risk of interruption Principal risks, risk mitigation and controls The risks and uncertainties described Babcock is, however, a large and on pages 64 to 69 below are those that developing group of businesses, the Board currently considers to be of and factual circumstances, business greatest significance to Babcock in that and operating environments will change they have the potential materially and with new risks being identified or the adversely to affect Babcocks business, evaluation of the significance of existing the delivery of its strategy and or its risks changing or being better financial results, condition or prospects.
This means For each risk there is a short description that the risks identified below are not of the Companys view of the possible and cannot be an exhaustive list of all impact of the risk on the Group should significant risks that could affect it occur, and the mitigation and control the Group.
processes in place to manage the risk Risks and uncertainties which might which should be read in conjunction affect businesses in general and that with the information above about our are not specific to the Group are not risk management approach and included, but Babcock, of course, general controls.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 64 Principal risks and management controls continued Our customer profile Large customers, whether public or imposing new or extra eligibility Issue private sector, have significant bargaining requirements as a condition of doing We rely heavily on winning and retaining power and the ability contractual or business with the customer that we large contracts with a relatively limited otherwise to cancel contracts without, may not be able readily to comply with number of major customers.
or on, short notice, often without cause, or that might involve significant extra Many of our major customers are directly or they can exert pressure to renegotiate costs impacting the profitability of or indirectly owned or controlled by them in their favour.
government national or local and are wholly or partly publically funded.
Potential Impact Mitigation Periods of uncertainty as to the course We have extensive and regular dialogue Our single biggest customer is currently of customer policy and spending can with key customers, involving, as the UK Ministry of Defence the MoD.
result in the delay, suspension or appropriate, our Chief Executive, These customers are affected by political withdrawal of tendering processes and Divisional Chief Executives and or and public spending decisions.
other members of the senior management team.
Commercial customers are also affected Whilst customer policy changes or by conditions in their market sector spending constraints can potentially offer We actively monitor actual and potential which affect their levels of and priorities more outsourcing opportunities for us political and other developments and for spending.
to pursue, they can also be a risk in that spending constraints that might affect they could lead to changes in customer our customers demand for our services.
Risk Description outsourcing strategy and spend which We aim to be innovative and responsive Policy changes following a change could include: in helping customers meet their needs of political administration or otherwise reductions in the number, frequency, and challenges.
and spending constraints on customers size, scope, profitability and or are material factors for the Groups Mitigation: see also pages 61 to 63 which duration of future contract business and outlook.
describe our risk management arrangements opportunities: and other relevant general controls.
in the case of existing contracts, The UK Government is due shortly to early termination, non-extension commence its next five-yearly Strategic or non-renewal or lower contract Defence and Security Review and also spend than anticipated and pressure to a Comprehensive Spending Review, renegotiate contract terms in the the outcomes of which may have short customers favour: or longer-term implications for our favouring the retention or return business with the MoD.
in-house of service provision either Whilst the Board believes that policy generally or in the sectors in which changes, spending reviews and restraints we operate: can offer significant opportunities to favouring small or medium-sized the Group to assist in the delivery of suppliers or adopting a more more services to customers efficiently transactional rather than co-operative, and at lower cost, these factors inevitably partnering approach to customer also carry risk.
supplier relationships: and Strategic report 65 The nature of our contracts, bid processes and our major markets Our contracts typically impose strict Compensation to the customer for poor Issue performance conditions and use key KPI performance could significantly impair We seek to win relatively long-term performance indicators KPIs that if not profitability under the contract and contracts for the provision of complex complied with trigger compensation for damages following termination could and integrated services to our customers.
the customer and or may result in loss be substantial.
Bidding for these contracts typically of the contract.
involves following a protracted and Mitigation detailed tendering process, often under Potential Impact We have a clear business strategy to public procurement rules.
If we lose a bid or a bid process is aborted target a large-bid pipeline and will only by the customer or we withdraw due to tender bids for contracts we consider There are typically only a relatively scope changes as it progresses, this is a have a clear alignment with the Group limited number of customers in each of significant waste of limited resource and strategy and in which the Company the market sectors we serve.
substantial expenditure that has to be stands a realistic chance of success.
The contracts we bid for often entail written off.
There are formal and rigorous reviews a substantial transfer of risk from the If we win a public procurement bid and and gating processes that are held at customer to the supplier.
this is challenged, this could lead to delay key stages of each material bid that in contract award, expensive legal are intended to reduce the risk of Risk Description proceedings or the competition having underestimating risks and costs and Bidding requires a substantial investment to be re-run.
ensure that limited bid resources are in terms of manpower resource and is appropriately targeted at opportunities very expensive.
Bids can be subject to Not winning a new bid can be a that we consider have the best prospects cancellation, delays or changes in scope.
significant missed opportunity for for winning or retaining business.
growth which may not soon be Contract award decisions made under replaced by another.
Group policies and procedures set public procurement rules can be subject a commercial, financial and legal to legal challenge by losing bidders.
Not winning rebids could mean the framework for all bids.
loss of existing significant revenue and Given the size and often long-term nature profit streams.
Contractual performance is continually of the contracts we bid for and the under review at a business unit, relatively limited numbers of customers Loss of bids or rebids can adversely divisional and or senior Group executive in the markets we serve, significant impact the strategic development of level as appropriate with a view to contracting opportunities tend not to the Group.
highlighting at an early stage risks to arise on a regular or frequent basis.
If we underestimate or under-price actual delivery and profitability.
When we are bidding for such contracts risk exposure or the cost of performance Mitigation: see also pages 61 to 63 which we have to price for the long term and this could significantly and adversely describe our risk management arrangements for risk transfer, and the scope for later affect our future profitability, cash and other relevant general controls.
price adjustment may be limited or generation and growth.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 66 Principal risks and management controls continued Reputation Failings or misconduct perceived or real could put at risk substantial existing Issue in dealing with a customer or in providing business streams and the prospects Given the nature of our customers services to them or on their behalf can of securing future business from that and the markets in which we operate substantially damage our reputation customer in that or other sectors.
our reputation is our fundamental with that customer or more generally.
Non-compliance with anti-bribery and The same would be true of high-profile corruption laws can result in debarment Our businesses include activities that incidents or accidents.
from bidding as well as criminal penalties.
have a high public profile and or if they Attitudes to the outsourcing of services were to involve adverse incidents or Mitigation generally or in a particular sector can accidents they could attract a high Senior management at Group and also be adversely affected by the poor level of publicity.
divisional level are keenly aware of performance or behaviour of other reputational risks, which can come from Risk Description service providers or incidents in which many sources.
Our risk control procedures We have a relatively limited number we are not involved.
relating to contract performance, of customers and potential customers in As well as our reputation for service anti-bribery and corruption, health and our market sectors and they typically delivery our ethical reputation is key.
safety performance and other matters have raised public profiles.
that could impact our reputation are Potential impact We are involved in the direct delivery to described elsewhere on pages 48 to 59.
Given our dependence on individual the public on behalf of our customers major customers and the relatively See also health, safety and environmental of high-profile and sensitive services or narrow customer base in the markets risks below.
our services are critical to our customers in which we currently operate, loss of ability to discharge their own public Mitigation: see also pages 61 to 63 which our reputation whether justified or not responsibilities or delivery of critical describe our risk management arrangements with a major customer or more generally services to their customers.
and other relevant general controls.
Regulatory and compliance burden We have management systems involving Issue Potential Impact competent personnel with clear Our major businesses are dependent Failure to maintain compliance with accountabilities for operational regulatory on being able to comply with applicable applicable requirements could render compliance.
customer or industry-specific the business unable to continue providing requirements or regulations.
services and result in the loss of Our Articles of Association empower us substantial business streams and possible to take steps to protect European air Risk Description damages claims and opportunities for operating licences if necessary by The cost of compliance can be high.
controlling the level and or limiting Requirements can change.
the rights of non-European Economic A change in requirements could entail Area owners of our shares see pages substantial expenditure which may not Compliance with some regulatory 122 to 124 for more information.
be recoverable either fully or at all requirements is a precondition to being under customer contracts.
able to carry on a business activity at all.
Mitigation: see also pages 61 to 63 which describe our risk management arrangements For example: Mitigation and other relevant general controls.
Our Mission Critical Services business We seek to maintain a clear is subject to a high degree of understanding of ongoing regulatory regulation relating to: aircraft requirements and to maintain good airworthiness and certification and also working relationships with regulators.
to ownership and control requirements for example, European air operators We have suitably qualified and must be majority owned and controlled experienced employees and or expert by European Economic Area nationals external advisers to advise and assist see page 122 for more information.
Our civil and defence-related nuclear businesses operate in a highlyregulated environment.
Strategic report 67 Health, safety and environmental To the extent that we have caused or The Board receives half-yearly reviews Issue contributed to an incident as a result of health and safety and environmental Some of our operations entail the of failings on our part, or because as performance and the management potential risk of significant harm to a matter of law we would be strictly reports tabled at each of its meetings people, property or the environment.
liable without fault, the Group could address health, safety and environment Risk Description be exposed to substantial damages on an ongoing basis.
Many of our businesses involve working claims, not all of which exposure may We believe we have appropriate in potentially hazardous operations or be insured against, and also to criminal insurance cover against civil environments which need to be properly proceedings which could result in liability exposures.
managed and controlled to minimise substantial penalties.
the risk of injury or damage.
Nuclear risks: we believe, having regard Such incidents which may have a high to the statutory regime for nuclear Some, for example, the mission critical public profile given the nature of our liability in the UK, the terms on which we operations of our helicopter services, operations may also seriously and do nuclear engineering business and the involve an inherent degree of risk that adversely affect the reputation of the terms of indemnities given to us by the is compounded by the nature of the Group or its brand whether that would UK Nuclear Decommissioning Authority services provided offshore oil and gas be justified or not, which could lead to and the UK MoD in respect of the nuclear crew change services, fire-fighting, search a significant loss of business or future site licensee companies in which we are and rescue, air ambulance and business opportunities.
interested, that the Group would have emergency services or the environments adequate protection against any risk of Mitigation in which they operate low altitude liability for injury or damage caused by Health, safety and environmental flying in adverse weather, terrains or nuclear contamination or incidents.
performance receive close and operational conditions.
continuous attention and oversight Mitigation: see also pages 61 to 63 which Potential Impact from the senior management team.
describe our risk management arrangements Serious accidents can have a major and other relevant general controls.
We have specific health, safety and impact on the lives of those directly environmental governance structures involved and on their families, friends, in place and extensive and ongoing colleagues and community, as can education and training programmes serious environmental incidents.
People replacement could have a material conditions and this could impact Issue adverse effect on the prospects for, our contract profitability.
Our business delivery and future growth or performance of, the Group and the depends on our ability adequately and Mitigation delivery of our strategy.
successfully to plan for management We give a high priority and devote succession and for our continuing and If we have insufficient experienced significant resources to recruiting future need to recruit, develop and retain business development or bidding skilled professionals, training and experienced senior managers, business personnel this could impair our ability development, succession planning development teams and highly-skilled to achieve strategic aims and financial and talent management.
employees such as suitably qualified and targets or to pursue business in experienced engineers, technicians, The Board, Nominations Committee new areas.
pilots and other specialist skills groups.
and Group Executive Committee If we have insufficient qualified and regularly receive reports on and or Risk Description experienced employees this could impair discuss these matters.
Competition for the skilled and our service delivery to customers or Apprentice and graduate recruitment experienced personnel we need is intense our ability to pursue new business, with programmes are run throughout and they are likely to remain in limited consequent risks to our financial results, all divisions.
supply for the foreseeable future.
growth, strategy and reputation and the This poses risks in both recruiting and risk of contract claims.
Further information about this subject retaining such staff.
and how we address it is on page 56 The cost of recruiting or retaining the of this Annual Report.
Potential Impact suitably qualified and experienced Losing experienced senior managers employees we need might increase Mitigation: see also pages 61 to 63 which describe our risk management arrangements for any reason without plans for their significantly depending on market and other relevant general controls.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 68 Principal risks and management controls continued International business Issue Potential Impact Mitigation As we expand outside the UK our financial If the currencies in which our non-UK We seek to mitigate exposure to results are increasingly exposed to the business is conducted are weak or movements in exchange rates in respect impact of currency exchange rates.
weaken against the value of Sterling of material foreign currency denominated this will adversely affect our reported transactions for example, through use Risk Description results and the value of any dividend of derivative instruments.
We prepare our consolidated results in income received by the Company Although we do not use these to Sterling and translate the value of assets, from non-UK operations.
hedge against the currency effect in liabilities and turnover reported or If the cost of an operation or a translating for our financial statements accounted for in non-Sterling currencies.
contractual commitment is denominated the net assets and income of non-UK Exchange rate movements can therefore or incurred in a currency different from subsidiaries and long-term equity affect the Sterling financial statements the currency of the income received accounted investments, we maintain and results of the Group.
from that operation or that is being relied foreign currency borrowings to limit, in on to discharge that commitment, part, the net foreign currency exposure.
Expenses or commitments may be movements in exchange rates can reduce incurred in a currency that is different Mitigation: see also pages 61 to 63 which the profitability of the operation and from the related turnover or income describe our risk management arrangements increase the effective cost of discharging and other relevant general controls.
Non-Sterling currencies to which we are currently most exposed are the Euro and South African Rand.
IT and security The Board receives reports at least Issue Potential Impact quarterly on security and information Our ability to deliver secure IT and A breach or compromise of IT system assurance matters.
other information assurance systems security or security at a physical site to maintain the confidentiality of their could lead to loss of reputation, loss of The ERP implementation project is sensitive information is a key factor business advantage, disruptions in being overseen and closely monitored by for our customers.
business operations and inability to meet steering and working groups, is regularly contractual obligations and have an reported on to the Group Executive During the coming year the Group adverse effect on the Groups ability Committee and will be implemented in expects to implement a new Enterprise to win future contracts and, as a result, a phased approach with parallel running Resource Planning ERP system for on our results of operations and overall of old and new systems for a while, to the back office within two of our financial condition.
what we believe is a realistic timetable.
Failure adequately to plan and resource Mitigation: see also pages 61 to 63 which Risk Description the implementation of the intended new describe our risk management arrangements Despite controls designed to protect such and other relevant general controls.
ERP systems or difficulties experienced in information, there can be no guarantee doing so could cause both trading and that security measures will be sufficient financial reporting difficulties that could to prevent all risk of security breaches or be material.
cyber-attacks being successful in their attempts to penetrate our network Mitigation security and misappropriate confidential We have made and will continue to make information.
The risk of loss of information significant investment in enhancing IT or data by other means is also a risk that security and security awareness generally.
cannot be entirely eliminated.
We have formal security and information Installing major new IT systems carries the assurance governance structures in place risk of key system failures and disruption.
to oversee and manage cyber-security and similar risks.
Strategic report 69 Pensions pension liabilities.
Variations in bond There is a risk that future accounting, Issue yields and inflationary expectations can regulatory and legislative changes The Group has significant defined benefit materially affect the pensions charge in may also adversely impact on pension pension schemes.
our income statement from year to year valuations and costs for the Group.
These provide for a specified level of as well as the value of the net difference pension benefits to scheme members, Mitigation between the pension assets and liabilities the cost of which is met from both Continuous strategic monitoring and shown on our balance sheet.
member and employer contributions evaluation by Group senior management paid into pension scheme funds and the Potential Impact of the assets and liabilities of the pension investment returns made in those funds Should the assets in the pension schemes scheme and, as appropriate, the over time.
be judged insufficient to meet pension execution of mitigation opportunities.
liabilities we may be required to make The Company and the scheme trustees Risk Description increased contributions and or lump have agreed a long-term investment The level of our contributions is based sum cash payments into the schemes.
strategy and risk framework intended on various assumptions, which are subject This may reduce the cash available to to reduce the impact of the schemes to change, such as life expectancy of meet the Groups other obligations or exposure to changes in inflation and members, investment returns, inflation, business needs, and may restrict the interest rates.
Based on the assumptions being future growth of the business.
used at any time, there is always a risk Longevity swaps have been used to Accounting standards for pension of a significant shortfall in the schemes reduce the impact of the schemes liabilities can lead to significant assets below the calculated cost of the exposure to increasing life expectancy.
accounting volatility from year to pension obligations.
Mitigation: see also pages 61 to 63 which year due to the need to take account When accounting for our defined benefit describe our risk management arrangements of macro-economic circumstances schemes we have to use corporate and other relevant general controls.
beyond the control of the Company.
bond-related discount rates to value the Integration of acquisitions Issue Potential Impact Mitigation The Group has grown and expects to If integration difficulties are significant, Integration risk is considered at an early continue to grow through acquisitions this could adversely affect the business, stage as part of the review of acquisition as well as organically, for example, financial condition, results of operations opportunities and detailed integration the recent acquisitions of Avincis, or prospects of the Group.
planning takes place before completion MacNeillie and Defence Support Group.
The diversion of management attention to integration issues and other difficulties We believe we have a good track record Risk Description encountered could adversely affect the in and experience of integrating The financial benefits of acquisitions Groups business.
acquisitions, both large and small.
may not be realised as quickly and as efficiently as expected if there is difficulty Mitigation: see also pages 61 to 63 which Post-acquisition performance may not in integrating them into the Group.
describe our risk management arrangements meet the financial performance expected and other relevant general controls.
and could fail to justify the price paid, which could adversely affect the Groups future results and financial position.
