Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 52 How we manage risk Reporting within the Group is structured so Project risks are reported and monitored in Effective management of risks that key issues are escalated through the Group-mandated format Contract Review and opportunities is essential management team and ultimately to the Packs, which are reviewed by management Board where appropriate.
The underlying atmonthly Contract Reviews.
The financial tothe delivery of the Groups principles of the Groups risk management performance of projects is reported and strategic objectives and the policy are that risks are monitored monitored using Contract Status Reports, continuously, associated action plans reviewed, which form part of the Contract Review Pack.
creation of sustainable appropriate contingencies provisioned and These include programme margin metrics, shareholder value.
thisinformation reported through established which are reviewed regularly by the Executive management control procedures.
Project margin is recognised after making suitable allowances Board The Board has conducted a review of the for technical and other risks related to The Board has overall responsibility for effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk performance milestones yet to be achieved.
determining the nature and extent of the risk management and internal control processes, it is willing to take, and ensuring that risks are including financial, operational and compliance In addition, every six months, the businesses managed effectively across the Group.
controls and risk management systems, in complete an Operational Assurance Statement accordance with the UK Corporate Governance OAS, which is a mandated policy under the Risk is a regular agenda item at Board meetings Code.
The Company has developed a system Operational Framework.
The OAS is in two and the Board reviews risk as part of its annual of internal controls that was in place throughout parts: a self-assessment of compliance with strategy review process.
This provides the 2015 and to the date of this report.
the Operational Framework: and a report Board with an appreciation of the key risks showing the key financial and non-financial within the business and oversight of how As with any system of internal control, the risks for the relevant business.
Together with theyare being managed.
policies and processes that are mandated in reviews undertaken by Internal Audit and the Operational Framework are designed to The Board delegates oversight of certain risk thework of the external auditors, the OAS manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure management activities to the Audit and forms the Groups process for reviewing the to achieve business objectives and can only Corporate Responsibility committees as follows.
effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance Audit Committee against material misstatement or loss.
Executive Committee The Audit Committee monitors the Groups The key financial and non-financial risks Financial and non-financial risks key risks identied by the risk assessment identied by the businesses from the risk processes and reports its findings to the Board assessment processes are collated and reviewed Financial risks expose the Group to potential twice a year.
It is also responsible for reviewing by the Executive Committee to identify those costs which are quantiable on the basis in detail the effectiveness of the Groups issues where the cumulative risk, or possible thattheir probability and impact can be system of internal control policies, and reputational impacts, could be significant.
understood adequately and related to the procedures for the identication, assessment financial statements.
Management responsibility for the management and reporting of risk.
of the Groups most significant non-financial Non-financial risks cannot be assessed readily Corporate Responsibility Committee risks is determined by the Executive Committee.
in financial terms and, therefore, cannot be The Corporate Responsibility Committee The OAS and non-financial risk registers are reected reliably in the financial statements.
monitors the Groups performance in managing reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee Process the Groups significant non-financial risks, to monitor the status and progression of including those arising in respect of business mitigation plans, and these key risks are Businesses conduct, health and safety, and the reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The responsibility for risk identication, environment.
The Committee reports its analysis, evaluation and mitigation rests Principal risks findings to the Board on a regular basis.
withthe line management of the businesses.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment They are also responsible for reporting and Approach of the principal risks facing the Company, monitoring key risks in accordance with The Groups approach to risk management including those that would threaten its established processes under the Groups isaimed at the early identication of key risks, business model, future performance, solvency Operational Framework.
mitigating the effect of those risks before and liquidity.
Such risks have been identied The Groups risk management process is set out theyoccur and dealing with them effectively as principal based on the likelihood of in the Risk Management Policy, a mandated ifthey crystallise.
occurrence and the potential impact on the policy under the Operational Framework, and, Group, and have been identied through the The Group is committed to the protection of in respect of projects, in the Lifecycle application of the policies and processes its assets, which include human, intellectual Management Framework, a core business outlined above.
These risks, together with and physical property, and financial resources, process under the Operational Framework.
details of how they are being mitigated and through an effective risk management process, Further guidance is provided by a Risk managed, are detailed on pages 54 to 57. underpinned where appropriate by insurance.
As a result of its assessment of the Groups Identied risks are documented in risk principal risks, the Board has determined registers showing: the risks that have been thatthe principal risks are consistent with identied: characteristics of the risk: the basis the2014Annual Report.
for determining mitigation strategy: and whatreviews and monitoring are necessary.
Each risk is allocated an owner who has authority and responsibility for assessing P54 andmanaging it.
Principal risks BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 53 Risk management framework Board Overall responsibility for risk management Monitoring Audit Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register Non-financial Risk Register Non-financial Risk Register Monitoring and reporting Monitoring and reporting Monitoring and reporting Executive Committee Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register Non-financial Risk Register Monitoring and reporting Businesses Integrated Business Plan Core Business Process Annual long-term strategy and five-year plan for each business Operational Assurance Statement Mandated Policy Six-monthly management self-assessment of compliance with the Operational Framework and summary of key risks Chief Executives Business Review Core Business Process Quarterly top-level review of the key operational, financial and non-financial performance issues within the business, and significant forthcoming bids and events Quarterly Business Review Core Business Process Quarterly management review of the performance of each of the Groups businesses against their objectives, measures and milestones Lifecycle Management Contract Review Core Business Process Monthly management review of project performance and issues to ensure that appropriate decisions and actions are taken Monitoring and reporting Business Risk Risk Management Policy Mandated Policy 1.
Analysis Financial and non-financial risks Risks analysed for impact and probability recorded in risk registers to determine gross exposure 4.
Evaluation Risk owners identied and action plans implemented Risk exposure reviewed Robust mitigation strategy subject to regular and rigorous review and risks prioritised As dened in the Groups Operational Framework.
P62 Operational Framework BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 |
