Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 42 Risk management framework 2015 saw strengthening of the risk management culture and of the Build to Last transformation programme and the Group disciplines embedding the Groups gateway reviews across project continues to roll out enhancements to achieve consistency across lifecycles.
This approach forms a fundamental element of the three its operations.
The Group is also improving its audit and assurance line of defence model in place across the business.
processes to both support and ensure the application of the improvements made.
The Group recognises that consistent and effective risk management is vital to the delivery of its strategic development and Risks are owned and managed within the business and inform business objectives.
thefocus of audit and assurance activities around the Group.
The Board has overall responsibility for risk management determining Central to the risk management and control framework are the eight the nature and extent of the principal risks to be taken and for the approval and review gates, spanning initial project pursuit through to review and effectiveness of the risk management and internal delivery and completion.
These mandatory reviews require Group, control systems.
divisional or business unit level approval depending upon the nature and complexity of the project.
At each gate an assessment of risk Following the review of the Groups approach to risk management in and risk appetite is made.
This sets common minimum standards for commercial and project management and the Additionally, a number of initiatives are underway within operational simplification and unification of internal controls across the Group.
delivery to increase understanding and embed a culture of risk management.
These measures include project manager training The rollout of the framework during the year has raised risk delivered through the Balfour Beatty Academy, increased cascade consciousness across the organisation and allowed risk management and promotion of minimal commercial expectations and continued to be built into activities from project pursuit, through design, adherence to Group commercial policies and process.
Good risk management is a key enabler Risk management framework Business objectives, agreed risk tolerances and KPIs Key business risks and related management strategies Con tract Commissioning Defects Initial enquiry Tender Mobilisation Execution negotiations & handover liability period Inform Inform Gate 1 Gate 2 Gate 3 Gate 4 Gate 5 Gate 6 Gate 7 Gate 8 Initial Tender Tender Contract PreMonitoring Project En d of submission commencement and control completion defects Go No Go Go No Go signing approval liability approval approval approval period Gateway review process Oversight and review Business level assessment and control Senior management challenge and external review Internal audit and committees Embedded risk culture and governance Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Lean Expert Trusted Safe Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 43 Risk attitude Balfour Beattys approach to risk management is guided by its core values, strategic priorities and related objectives.
It regards its risk attitude as the amount of risk that it is willing to accept in order to deliver its strategic priorities.
The tolerances used vary from zeroto high and reflect the level of risk and related control.
Tolerance levels are based on the Groups risk management framework which analyses risk using a combination of agreed impact and probability criteria.
Strategic priority Build to Last value Risk attitude Deliver value to our customers by We will manage our operational activities and exposures to avoid material adverse improving operational efficiency impacts on annual profit and cash flow.
and eliminating waste right through the supply chain.
Ensure we have the best We are prepared to develop our engineering and project management talent from engineering and project within through investment in training and development programmes.
We will take management capabilities.
risk in attracting external talent when it is appropriate to do so.
Be the construction partner of We will not compromise new or existing customer relationships by poor bid and choice for our customers and mobilisation practices.
supply chain by delivering on Our risk tolerance for procuring materials and products that do not meet the Groups our promises.
quality and sourcing requirements is zero.
We must ensure the health and Our aim is to ensure safety for every employee, subcontractor, customer safety of everyone who comes into and community and we will not trade this objective for the achievement of contact with our activities.
We have zero tolerance for breaches of the legal and or regulatory framework within which we operate or for behaviours not in accordance with our policies and code of ethics.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
