26 Strategic Report Risk Management Process Bellway has a long-established system for identifying, monitoring and 1 managing risk.
It is the responsibility of management to implement the Boards policies on risk and internal control.
In fulfilling its responsibility, management identifies and evaluates the risks faced by the Group for consideration by the Board and designs, operates and monitors the system of internal control, which implements the policies adopted by the Board.
In addition, all employees have some responsibility for monitoring risk as part of their responsibility for achieving objectives.
Management maintains a comprehensive risk assessment register which details all significant risks pertinent to the Group, including operational, financial, compliance and strategic risks.
This register is reviewed on a regular basis as part of the management reporting process by the functional heads within the Group, who each review their own particular area of operation.
As a result of these reviews, the assessment of each risk is monitored and where necessary updated using a scoring system which seeks to assess the likelihood, the financial effect and what controls are in place to mitigate the effects of the relevant risks.
Derived from this comprehensive 1 register is a shorter register of principal Royal Park, Nuneaton, 2 risks, specifically reserved for review Warwickshire by the Board.
This is mainly, but not exclusively, comprised of risks, after 2 Greenleaves, Billingshurst, mitigation, above a certain threshold.
West Sussex This register is reviewed by the Board throughout the year, with the Board 3 systematically considering the risks, Enfield Mews, Guisborough, taking into account any changes North Yorkshire which may have been recommended by management in relation to the comprehensive register.
Once a year, the Board reviews both registers in full to ensure that the system of risk assessment 3 and the management thereof is operating effectively.
As a result of the regular reviews, changes required in the control environment are implemented by management to ensure, as far as possible, that the Groups risks are either eliminated or mitigated.
More information on risk management and internal control is included within the Audit Committee Report on pages 40 to 43.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report v42.
