24 Risk management Managing our risks, embracing our opportunities By managing risk effectively and embracing opportunities, we will be in a stronger position to deliver our strategy and enhance shareholder value.
Risk appetite Risk culture Our key focus areas in 2015 The board is responsible for the amount We maintain an open style of a Reviewed our risk management of risk that the group is willing to take.
This is designed to processes to ensure these are more The board fulls this responsibility when identify any problems and issues early responsive to any potential changes it agrees and sets the business strategy so that appropriate action can be taken in activities, processes or the and cascades it down to the organisation quickly to minimise any impact on business environment by setting the groups delegation of the business.
authority and approving group policies a Supported IT risk management The characteristics of our group and procedures.
This enables the group through our IT Steering Group, in culture are supported by our group to reduce risks, where possible, to particular through the development intranet, the Berendsen Universe.
the tolerance levels set by the board.
of a group IT risk management plan This provides an extensive platform for The board considers the inherent risk a Implemented a mechanism for our employees to keep updated with attributes of our business, highlighted the latest news, key group policies and sharing lessons learnt from incidents in the table below, when identifying across the businesses procedures and to share best practice its appetite and tolerances for risk with others.
Our Vision, Mission and and opportunities.
Next steps and Values complement and drive the keyprioritiesfor 2016 characteristics of our culture.
Inherent attributes a Provide support to deliver key Identication, evaluation and a We have an open communication strategic initiatives, with particular management of principal risks culture where it is normal practice to focus on project and change escalate issues promptly The board is responsible for identifying risk management the principal risks that face the group.
a We operate predominantly in Western Throughout 2015 and up to the date a Maintain effective operation of the Europe, which has a well-developed of the approval of these financial new risk management processes, business culture statements, there has been an ongoing ensuring a sharp focus on areas of a We have a stable and experienced process through which the board potential change, both internally management team reviewed the most significant risks facing and externally the group including the identication a The group operates a large number of a Complete an information risk and evaluation of potential new risks.
plants, and this reduces the potential assessment exercise in order to impact on our business should In addition, there has also been a process identify high risk areas where we can problems occur in a specic plant through which the audit committee has strengthen information security regularly monitored the management of a Our organisation is strongly these risks.
process-oriented Details on the identication, evaluation Nagore Marco We operate within a low risk tolerance in and management process of our Group Risk respect to strategic objectives associated Manager principal risks are outlined on page 25. with corporate responsibility, and with a marginally higher tolerance towards our financial strategic objectives.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 25 Internal control Ongoing process for risk identication,  The board also has responsibility for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems, and The board reviewing the effectiveness of these a Sets strategic objectives systems at least annually.
Our internal a Agrees risk appetite, identies and evaluates key risks and tolerance levels and ensures they control systems are designed to manage are appropriately managed rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve a business objective.
They can a Sets delegation of authority therefore only provide reasonable and a Approves group policy and procedures not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Executive Group risk Audit Read more about the boards annual Board management committee assessment of the effectiveness ofinternalcontrol systems on page 74 a Monitors performance Provides guidance and a Monitors assurance Operational Risk and changes in key risks advice to business line and and risk management ManagementGroup facing the business, and business unit management arrangements provides regular reports to help with: The Operational Risk Management tothe board Group aims to improve our systems a Risk identication a Agrees key actions to procedures, quantication and procedures in order to share manage risks and mitigation plans risk management best practice around the group.
This group, which a Health and safety comprises several senior managers Business line a Fire management Effectiveness from across our organisation, meets andbusiness unit ofriskand a Insurance at least twice each year to discuss management controlprocesses Reports to the board and emerging risk management issues and audit committee on status of to identify opportunities for us to share business risks.
a Identies, assesses, Review of the effectiveness best practice.
manages and reports of key risk management and local risks control processes through: In response to the new business strategy and, in particular, to the new a Maintains local risk a Internal audit business line structure, the terms of management plans a External audit reference and membership of the group a Implements key risk a Insurance will be reviewed in 2016 to ensure it mitigation plans remains t for purpose and aligned to a Risk surveys our organisation.
Assurance lines of defence 12 3 Business line and business Group Independent unit management support assurance Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
