STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT How we manage risk Risk management is embedded in the organisation.
We understand that there are significant operational risks in successfully identifying, designing, building and selling homes and creating new places.
23 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT How we manage risk Carefully managing the risks of each and every site that we acquire and develop is at the heart of how we work.
A strategy embedded Two of the five principles which The remaining three principles represent underpin Berkeleys strategy represent our headline corporate approach to in understanding and an understanding of the fundamental managing these macro risks: mitigating risk risks that face the company as a residential developer: These five principles underpin the spirit of Berkeley, and are driven by the We recognise that the property We operate in London and the engagement and quality of our people 1 3 market is inherently cyclical.
South of England, markets that and the attention to detail which we know and understand.
We characterises the way we work.
This believe that recognising the anchors our approach to managing We understand that there are 2 importance of relationships the specific operational and financial significant operational risks in and local knowledge gives us risks of the business.
successfully identifying, designing, a competitive advantage and building and selling homes and enables us to deliver new places creating new places.
which are socially, environmentally and economically successful.
We aim to keep financial risk low, 4 by maintaining a strong balance sheet, forward selling new homes where possible, carefully allocating funds to the right projects and buying land in the right locations at the right time.
We have recognised brands and 5 autonomous, talented operational teams who carefully manage each individual scheme, regardless of size, to a bespoke design, and embrace Berkeleys core values in their approach.
Day-to-day Risk management is embedded in the In terms of formal risk reporting, and organisation.
At operating company and guided by a risk framework identified management of divisional level, Board meeting agendas at Main Board level, each division of the specific risks are structured around the key specific Group completes a quarterly risk review, risks facing the Group.
Risk management incorporating Group-wide standard risks is the basis of debate in every operational and any other risks identified as specific Board meeting on the progress of each to their business.
These are combined, and every site acquired, developed and overlaid with corporate risks and sold by the Group.
reported quarterly to the Main Board.
Our approach is anchored in a desire to The controls and processes surrounding understand each and every risk on all of how we assess risk across the Group our schemes through careful appraisal of are explained further in the Corporate new purchases, successfully and effectively Governance report on page 62. negotiating the planning process, building The principal operating risks and our safely, efficiently, on programme and on approach to mitigating them are described budget, forward selling where possible and in more detail on pages 26 to 31. providing exceptional customer service.
We create bespoke solutions for each site and as such do not produce a standard product, which requires experienced, intensive management.
24 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Keeping financial Exposure to financial risks The risks to which Berkeley is exposed include: risk low Berkeley keeps financial risk low by Liquidity risk Market interest rate risk maintaining a strong balance sheet The risk that the funding required for The risk that Group financing activities and simplicity and transparency in its the Group to pursue its activities may are affected by fluctuations in market approach to financing the business.
Market credit risk Other financial risks The risk that counterparties mainly Berkeley contracts all of its sales and the customers will default on their vast majority of its purchases in sterling, contractual obligations, resulting in a and so has no significant exposure to loss to the Group.
The Groups exposure currency risk, but does recognise that to credit risk is comprised of cash its credit risk includes receivables from and cash equivalents and trade and customers in a range of jurisdictions other receivables.
who are themselves exposed to currency risk in contracting in sterling.
Management of financial risks Berkeley adopts a prudent approach to managing these financial risks.
Treasury policy and central overview Forward sales The Board approves treasury policy and Berkeleys approach to forward selling senior management control day-to-day new homes to customers provides operations.
Relationships with banks good visibility over future cash flows, and cash management are coordinated as expressed in cash due on forward centrally at Berkeleys head office.
The sales which stands at 2,959 million treasury policy is intended to maintain at 30 April 2015.
It also helps mitigate an appropriate capital structure to market credit risk by virtue of manage the financial risks identified customers deposits held from the point and provide the right platform for the of unconditional exchange of contracts business to manage its operating risks.
These deposits stood at 920.9 million at 30 April 2015 and Ungeared provide security for Berkeley in the The Group is currently financing its event of customer default at the point operations through shareholder equity, of completion of sales.
supported by over 430 million of net cash on the balance sheet, and so has Land holdings adopted a prudent approach to gearing By investing in land at the right point in the business and in turn mitigated its the cycle, holding a clear development current exposure to interest rate risk.
pipeline in our land holdings and continually reviewing our existing Headroom provided by bank facilities holdings, we are not under pressure to The Group refinanced its borrowing buy new land when it would be wrong facilities in the year, and now has for long-term success of the business.
575 million of committed undrawn credit facilities maturing in 2020.
Detailed appraisal of spending This refinancing increased Berkeleys commitments revolving credit facilities by 50 million, A culture which prioritises an extended the maturity date by two understanding of the impact of all years to give five clear years to maturity decisions on the Groups spending and reduced costs across the life of commitments and hence its balance the facility.
This refinancing cemented sheet, alongside weekly and monthly Berkeleys strong working partnership reviews of cash flow forecasts at with the six banks which provide the operating company, divisional and facilities and are listed on page 127 Group levels, recognises that cash and is key to Berkeleys approach to is king and central to the continued mitigating liquidity risk.
25 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT How we manage risk continued We carefully manage each of the key operating risks of our business to drive performance.
Risk Description Approach to mitigating risk Impact and measurement Read more As a property developer operating Funds are carefully targeted at investing only in land Recognition that Berkeley operates in a cyclical market Business model within the wider housing market, which is underpinned by demand fundamentals and is central to our strategy as articulated within our page 08 Economic Berkeleys business is sensitive to a solid viability case even when markets are uncertain.
- Cyclical market economic factors such as changes - Sound financials Levels of committed expenditure are carefully monitored Maintaining sound financials through a strong balance sheet conditions in interest rates, employment levels against forward sales secured, cash levels and headroom and measuring the commitment of expenditure against 2015 Performance highlights KPIs and general consumer confidence.
against our available bank facilities, with the objective of forward sales are also central to our business model.
This is what page 02 Some customers are also sensitive keeping financial risk low to mitigate the operating risks of protects us against adverse changes in economic conditions.
- Net asset value per share to changes in the sterling exchange delivery in uncertain markets.
- Adjusted profit before tax rate in terms of their buying decisions The strength of the balance sheet is measured by - Basic earnings per share or ability to meet their obligations The business is committed to operating at an optimal monitoring our KPIs, principally net asset value per share, - Adjusted return on equity under contracts.
size, with a strong balance sheet, through autonomous the profitability of the business through profit before tax businesses to maintain the flexibility to react swiftly, when and basic earnings per share, and the efficiency of the Changes to economic conditions in the necessary, to changes in market conditions.
balance sheet through return on equity.
UK, Europe and worldwide may lead to a reduction in demand for housing which could impact on the Groups ability to deliver its corporate strategy.
Adverse changes to Government The effects of changes to Government policies at all Berkeley is focused geographically on London and the South Business model policy on areas such as taxation, levels are closely monitored by operating businesses and of England, which limits our risk when understanding and page 08 Regulation housing and the environment could the Board, and representations made to policy-setters determining the impact of new regulation across multiple - Knowing our market restrict the ability of the Group to where appropriate.
- Autonomy and values deliver its strategy.
Berkeleys experienced teams are well placed to interpret We have talented operational teams with an appropriate Failure to comply with laws and implement new regulations at the appropriate time support structure which enables them to act autonomously and regulations could expose through direct lines of communication across the Group, and in the best interests of the business in the long-term.
the Group to penalties and with support from internal and external legal advisors.
The business is therefore well placed with the right people reputational damage.
to assess the impact of changes in regulations and to Detailed policies and procedures are in place where implement them accordingly.
appropriate to the prevailing regulations and these are communicated to all staff.
An inability to source suitable land to Land acquisition is focused on Berkeleys core markets Understanding the markets in which we operate is central Business model maintain the Groups land holdings of London and the South of England, markets which to Berkeleys strategy and gives us the confidence to buy page 08 Land at appropriate margins in a highly it understands and where it believes that the demand land without an implementable planning consent where we - Knowing our market competitive market could impact fundamentals are strong and hence it stands the best understand what local stakeholders want.
- Sound financials availability on the Groups ability to deliver its chance of securing a viable planning consent.
Keeping strong financials gives us the liquidity and flexibility corporate strategy.
2015 Performance highlights KPIs Berkeley acquires land opportunistically, where it meets to remain competitive when bidding for new land and gives page 03 its internal criteria for purchase, and considers joint vendors the confidence that Berkeley will deliver on any deals - Gross margin on land holdings ventures in particular as a vehicle to work with the right negotiated, and has enabled us to partner with National Grid partners who bring good quality land complemented on St William to bring in more land.
We carefully monitor the level of estimated future gross margin Each land acquisition is subject to a formal internal appraisal in our land holdings as a key performance indicator.
This reflects and approval process prior to the submission of a bid and the future potential of the business from current land holdings again prior to exchange of contracts to give the Group the valued at current prices and current costs.
best chance to secure targeted land.
Over the last five years, the Group has had stated targets to The Group maintains its land holdings to mitigate against invest in land.
Accordingly the growth of estimated gross margin significant impacts from market changes or delayed build in our land holdings has been a key performance target for activity.
Berkeley has experienced land teams with strong remuneration of Executive Main Board directors as explained market knowledge in their areas of focus.
Key: Identifying and acquiring land Designing and planning new homes and places Building new homes and places Marketing and selling new homes Customer service and stewardship 26 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Description Approach to mitigating risk Impact and measurement Read more As a property developer operating Funds are carefully targeted at investing only in land Recognition that Berkeley operates in a cyclical market Business model within the wider housing market, which is underpinned by demand fundamentals and is central to our strategy as articulated within our page 08 Economic Berkeleys business is sensitive to a solid viability case even when markets are uncertain.
- Cyclical market economic factors such as changes - Sound financials Levels of committed expenditure are carefully monitored Maintaining sound financials through a strong balance sheet conditions GDP growth, a in interest rates, employment levels against forward sales secured, cash levels and headroom and measuring the commitment of expenditure against 2015 Performance highlights KPIs decisive General and general consumer confidence.
This is what page 02 Election result and Some customers are also sensitive keeping financial risk low to mitigate the operating risks of protects us against adverse changes in economic conditions.
- Net asset value per share Londons continuing to changes in the sterling exchange delivery in uncertain markets.
- Adjusted profit before tax attractiveness are rate in terms of their buying decisions The strength of the balance sheet is measured by - Basic earnings per share balanced by ongoing or ability to meet their obligations The business is committed to operating at an optimal monitoring our KPIs, principally net asset value per share, - Adjusted return on equity Eurozone uncertainty.
- Autonomy and values Regulatory changes, deliver its strategy.
Berkeleys experienced teams are well placed to interpret We have talented operational teams with an appropriate whether legal, planning Failure to comply with laws and implement new regulations at the appropriate time support structure which enables them to act autonomously or tax-related, are a and regulations could expose through direct lines of communication across the Group, and in the best interests of the business in the long-term.
- Sound financials availability Accessing good quality on the Groups ability to deliver its chance of securing a viable planning consent.
Keeping strong financials gives us the liquidity and flexibility land is a core inherent corporate strategy.
2015 Performance highlights KPIs Berkeley acquires land opportunistically, where it meets to remain competitive when bidding for new land and gives risk of the business that page 03 its internal criteria for purchase, and considers joint vendors the confidence that Berkeley will deliver on any deals we steadily manage - Gross margin on land holdings ventures in particular as a vehicle to work with the right negotiated, and has enabled us to partner with National Grid in a cyclical market.
partners who bring good quality land complemented on St William to bring in more land.
In a competitive by Berkeleys expertise.
market with new We carefully monitor the level of estimated future gross margin entrants from the UK Each land acquisition is subject to a formal internal appraisal in our land holdings as a key performance indicator.
This reflects and overseas, the risks and approval process prior to the submission of a bid and the future potential of the business from current land holdings on new land have again prior to exchange of contracts to give the Group the valued at current prices and current costs.
27 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT How we manage risk continued Risk Description Approach to mitigating risk Impact and measurement Read more Delays or refusals in obtaining The Group follows a principle of investing in markets that it The geographical focus on London and the South of Business model commercially viable planning knows and understands, and is geographically focused on England is central to our strategy as articulated within our page 08 Planning permissions on the Groups land London and the South of England, which we believe gives business model.
- Knowing our market holdings could result in the Group us the best chance of conceiving and delivering the right - Sound financials process By maintaining a strong balance sheet, and through a being unable to develop the land it consents for the land that we acquire.
long-established reputation for delivery, our stakeholders has purchased.
Our Vision Full detailed planning and risk assessments are performed in local communities trust our ability to deliver against any - Customers Page 38 This could have a direct impact on and monitored for each site without planning permission, commitments that we make, whether financial or operational.
- Homes Page 40 the Groups ability to deliver its both before and after purchase.
Some sites are acquired We believe that our commitments in the areas of customer - Places Page 42 product and on its profitability.
conditionally and some unconditionally depending on our service, design, the quality of new homes and placemaking assessment of the risk profile.
The planning status of all can make us the developer of choice for local authorities which sites is reviewed at monthly divisional Board meetings and will help deliver the right planning consents for our schemes.
This has led to us securing further new consents this year to The Group works closely with local communities in support the future business.
respect of planning proposals and strong relationships are maintained with local authorities and planning officers.
An inability to attract, develop, We have developed a series of commitments within Our Remuneration packages are designed with retention in 2015 Performance highlights KPIs Retaining motivate and retain talented Vision, our plan for the business, to ensure that we retain mind and are explained in the financial statements within pages 02 to 03 employees could have an impact and develop the best people to support the business the Financials section of this report and accounted for in - Adjusted profit before tax people on the Groups ability to deliver in the long-term.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
- Basic earnings per share its strategic priorities.
Hence they are appropriately reflected in our profit-related key - Staff engaged with the Succession planning is regularly reviewed at both divisional performance indicators and senior management across the Berkeley Foundation Failure to consider the retention and Main Board level.
Close relationships and dialogue are business has remained stable.
and succession of key management maintained with key personnel.
Our Vision could result in a loss of knowledge Berkeleys commitments in the area of people are articulated Remuneration packages are constantly benchmarked - Our People Page 46 and competitive advantage.
within the Our Vision section of this report.
We measure the against the industry to ensure they remain competitive.
engagement of our people with the Berkeley Foundation as We want our people to be engaged with the business and representative of their engagement with the business and its its impact on wider society through the activities of the wider impact.
An inability to match supply to Detailed market demand assessments of each site are The level of cash due on forward sales secured is a key 2015 Performance highlights KPIs demand in terms of product, location undertaken before acquisition and regularly during delivery performance indicator which measures the cash which pages 02 to 03 Securing and price could result in missed of each scheme to ensure that supply is matched to demand Berkeley expects to receive on contracted forward sales - Cash due on forward sales sales targets and or high levels of in each location.
over the next three financial years.
This is a function - Net promoter score sales completed stock which in turn could of reservation levels compared to trading reported in the Design, product type and product quality are all assessed impact on the Groups ability to income statement, and so provides both a good indication Our Vision on a site-by-site basis to ensure that they meet the target deliver its corporate strategy.
of past sales performance and visibility over future - Customers Page 38 market and customer aspirations in that location.
has a diverse range of developments with homes available at a broad range of property prices to appeal to a wide market.
Through our commitments to Customers in Our Vision, Forward sales are used to take the risk out of the development we have put customer service, interaction with our purchasers cycle where possible, thereby justifying and underpinning the and a commitment to market schemes in the UK first at financial investment in each of the Groups sites.
Completed the centre of our plan for the business.
We recognise this by stock levels are reviewed and debated regularly.
measuring our performance through the Net Promotor score.
Mortgage providers were negatively Berkeley has a broad product mix and customer base The financial measure of cash due on forward sales 2015 Performance highlights KPIs Mortgage impacted by the financial crisis from which reduces the reliance on mortgage availability across provides an indication of the level of sales on which deposits page 03 2008 to 2011, and this reduced their its portfolio.
have been taken and hence hedges against the risk of - Cash due on forward sales availability ability to provide mortgages to non-completion of sales.
The Group participates in the Governments Help to Buy potential purchasers at the time.
scheme, which provides deposit assistance to first time An inability of customers to secure buyers, and has participated in other Government schemes sufficient mortgage finance now or in historically.
Deposits are taken on all sales to mitigate the the future could have a direct impact financial impact on the Group in the event that sales do not on the Groups transaction levels.
complete due to a lack of mortgage availability.
Key: Identifying and acquiring land Designing and planning new homes and places Building new homes and places Marketing and selling new homes Customer service and stewardship 28 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Description Approach to mitigating risk Impact and measurement Read more Delays or refusals in obtaining The Group follows a principle of investing in markets that it The geographical focus on London and the South of Business model commercially viable planning knows and understands, and is geographically focused on England is central to our strategy as articulated within our page 08 Planning permissions on the Groups land London and the South of England, which we believe gives business model.
- Knowing our market holdings could result in the Group us the best chance of conceiving and delivering the right - Sound financials process By maintaining a strong balance sheet, and through a The planning process being unable to develop the land it consents for the land that we acquire.
long-established reputation for delivery, our stakeholders is complex but has has purchased.
Our Vision Full detailed planning and risk assessments are performed in local communities trust our ability to deliver against any been stable this - Customers Page 38 This could have a direct impact on and monitored for each site without planning permission, commitments that we make, whether financial or operational.
year, and so the risk - Homes Page 40 the Groups ability to deliver its both before and after purchase.
Some sites are acquired We believe that our commitments in the areas of customer profile is steady.
- Places Page 42 product and on its profitability.
- Basic earnings per share A stable senior team its strategic priorities.
Hence they are appropriately reflected in our profit-related key - Staff engaged with the Succession planning is regularly reviewed at both divisional has continued to performance indicators and senior management across the Berkeley Foundation Failure to consider the retention and Main Board level.
Close relationships and dialogue are manage the normal business has remained stable.
pressures of people Our Vision could result in a loss of knowledge Berkeleys commitments in the area of people are articulated Remuneration packages are constantly benchmarked retention.
- Our People Page 46 and competitive advantage.
This is a function - Net promoter score sales Whilst sales have completed stock which in turn could of reservation levels compared to trading reported in the Design, product type and product quality are all assessed reduced since last impact on the Groups ability to income statement, and so provides both a good indication Our Vision on a site-by-site basis to ensure that they meet the target year, our experience deliver its corporate strategy.
The Group is of a return to a cash flows.
has a diverse range of developments with homes available at normal market.
a broad range of property prices to appeal to a wide market.
The Group participates in the Governments Help to Buy Low interest rates, potential purchasers at the time.
scheme, which provides deposit assistance to first time combined with a return An inability of customers to secure buyers, and has participated in other Government schemes to economic growth, sufficient mortgage finance now or in historically.
Deposits are taken on all sales to mitigate the have supported mortgage the future could have a direct impact financial impact on the Group in the event that sales do not availability, which has on the Groups transaction levels.
reduced this risk this year.
29 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT How we manage risk continued Risk Description Approach to mitigating risk Impact and measurement Read more Berkeley is aware of the Berkeleys plan for the business, Our Vision, includes Berkeleys commitments within Our Vision, under the headings Our Vision environmental and social impact of specific commitments to enhance environmental and social of Homes and Places, focus on the long-term sustainability of - Homes Page 40 Environmental the homes and communities that it sustainability considerations in the delivery of our schemes.
our schemes, including ensuring minimum space standards and - Places Page 42 builds, both during the construction On social sustainability in particular, we have sought to lead putting fibre broadband into all new schemes, carrying out - Operations Page 44 and social phase and on occupation by its the agenda.
social sustainability assessments across our developments customers.
and adapting all developments to climate change through sustainability These complement existing practices within the Group measures on flooding, overheating and water shortage.
Our Failure to address sustainability to focus on brownfield development, monitor carbon plan recognises that these are essential considerations to issues could affect the Groups emissions and to be a considerate contractor on all of our support the long-term viability of the places that we create.
ability to acquire land, gain planning schemes and welcomed in the communities within which permission, manage sites effectively we operate.
Our success in this field is demonstrated by our ranking as and respond to increasing customer the most sustainable housebuilder in the UK for the ninth year demand for sustainable homes.
in a row in the Next Generation Benchmark 2014.
Berkeleys operations have a direct Berkeleys health and safety strategy is set by the Board.
We continue to monitor RIDDOR reportable Accident Our Vision impact on the health and safety of its Dedicated health and safety teams are in place in each Incident Rates, reported within the Our People section - Operations Page 44 Health people, contractors and members of division and at Head Office.
of Our Vision, and promote continual health and safety - Our People Page 46 the public.
Berkeley considers this to programmes across the business.
and Safety Procedures, training and reporting are all regularly be an area of critical importance.
2015 Performance highlights KPIs reviewed to ensure that high standards are maintained and Berkeleys commitments within Our Vision, under the page 03 A lack of adequate procedures and comprehensive accident investigation procedures are in Operations heading, includes the launch of a 2 million - Accident Incident Rate systems to reduce the dangers place.
Adequate insurance is held to cover the risks inherent Innovation Fund to support innovation in health and safety.
inherent in the construction process in large-scale construction projects.
This was successfully launched during 2015 and aims to increases the risk of accidents or promote further modernisation of the industry from within The Group has implemented a number of initiatives site-related catastrophes, including and outside the business whether staff, contractors, to improve health and safety standards on site, with fire and flood, which could result in students or entrepreneurs.
workshops held with contractors during the year.
serious injury or loss of life leading to reputational damage, financial penalties and disruption to operations.
Build costs are affected by the A procurement and programming strategy for each Delivering new homes to customers on time and on budget 2015 Performance highlights KPIs availability of skilled labour and the development is agreed by the divisional Board before site are crucial to meeting our profit targets, as measured by pages 02 to 03 Build cost & price and availability of materials, acquisition.
our profit-related key performance indicators.
- Adjusted profit before tax supplies and subcontractors.
- Basic earnings per share programme A further assessment of procurement and programming is Control of capital, whilst embracing the sector-leading - Adjusted return on equity Changes to these prices and the undertaken and agreed by the divisional Board prior to the commitments in Our Vision, in particular under the availability of labour could impact on commencement of construction.
Operations heading, is essential to promoting the long-term Our Vision the profitability of each scheme.
success of the business and delivering planned returns to Build cost reconciliations and build programme dates are - Operations Page 44 shareholders by 2021. presented and reviewed in detail at divisional cost review meetings each month.
Berkeley has a reputation for high Detailed reviews are undertaken of the product on each We believe that delivering a quality product in great places 2015 Performance highlights KPIs standards of quality in its product.
scheme both during the acquisition of the site and drives long-term profitability through the planning consents pages 02 to 03 Product If the Group fails to deliver against throughout the build process to ensure that the quality that we can secure, demand for the product and - Adjusted profit before tax these standards and its wider of the product is maintained.
- Basic earnings per share quality development obligations, it could - Adjusted return on equity Customer Satisfaction surveys are undertaken on Commitments under the Homes and Places headings of be exposed to reputational damage, - Net promoter score the handover of all private apartments, and feedback Our Vision demonstrate Berkeleys targets for continual as well as reduced sales and incorporated in shaping the specification and quality improvement of the product that we deliver, and under the increased cost.
Our Vision of subsequent schemes.
Customers heading to gain assurance, especially in the area - Homes Page 40 of customer service, that the product delivers the right The Group monitors its development obligations and - Places Page 42 experience for our customers.
recognises any associated liabilities which arise.
Key: Identifying and acquiring land Designing and planning new homes and places Building new homes and places Marketing and selling new homes Customer service and stewardship 30 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Description Approach to mitigating risk Impact and measurement Read more Berkeley is aware of the Berkeleys plan for the business, Our Vision, includes Berkeleys commitments within Our Vision, under the headings Our Vision environmental and social impact of specific commitments to enhance environmental and social of Homes and Places, focus on the long-term sustainability of - Homes Page 40 Environmental the homes and communities that it sustainability considerations in the delivery of our schemes.
our schemes, including ensuring minimum space standards and - Places Page 42 builds, both during the construction On social sustainability in particular, we have sought to lead putting fibre broadband into all new schemes, carrying out - Operations Page 44 and social Our focus on this phase and on occupation by its the agenda.
social sustainability assessments across our developments area remains a key customers.
and adapting all developments to climate change through sustainability These complement existing practices within the Group differentiator of measures on flooding, overheating and water shortage.
Our Failure to address sustainability to focus on brownfield development, monitor carbon Berkeley and the risks plan recognises that these are essential considerations to issues could affect the Groups emissions and to be a considerate contractor on all of our and our approach support the long-term viability of the places that we create.
ability to acquire land, gain planning schemes and welcomed in the communities within which continually evolve.
permission, manage sites effectively we operate.
and Safety Procedures, training and reporting are all regularly This has been and be an area of critical importance.
2015 Performance highlights KPIs reviewed to ensure that high standards are maintained and Berkeleys commitments within Our Vision, under the remains an operational page 03 A lack of adequate procedures and comprehensive accident investigation procedures are in Operations heading, includes the launch of a 2 million priority for Berkeley.
- Accident Incident Rate systems to reduce the dangers place.
- Basic earnings per share programme A further assessment of procurement and programming is Control of capital, whilst embracing the sector-leading An increasingly - Adjusted return on equity Changes to these prices and the undertaken and agreed by the divisional Board prior to the commitments in Our Vision, in particular under the competitive landscape availability of labour could impact on commencement of construction.
Operations heading, is essential to promoting the long-term has put increased Our Vision the profitability of each scheme.
success of the business and delivering planned returns to Build cost reconciliations and build programme dates are pressure on costs and - Operations Page 44 shareholders by 2021. presented and reviewed in detail at divisional cost review labour availability meetings each month.
- Basic earnings per share quality Our strong focus on development obligations, it could - Adjusted return on equity Customer Satisfaction surveys are undertaken on Commitments under the Homes and Places headings of maintaining quality be exposed to reputational damage, - Net promoter score the handover of all private apartments, and feedback Our Vision demonstrate Berkeleys targets for continual of design and product as well as reduced sales and incorporated in shaping the specification and quality improvement of the product that we deliver, and under the has remained steady.
