Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board reviews annually the material financial and non financial risks facing the business and, on a rolling cycle basis, reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process and the resources that our business devotes to them.
The principal risks and corresponding mitigation set out below represent the principal uncertainties that the Board believes may impact the Groups ability to deliver effectively its strategy in the future.
The list does not include all risks that the Group faces and it does not list the risks in any order of priority.
Risk Impact Mitigating factors Increasing price A decline in selling prices could have an We will continue to improve the choice, price and service to competition in the adverse impact on the Groups sales, our customers.
UK grocery and operating profits and cashflow.
discount sectors Failure to respond This could have an adverse impact The industry is extremely competitive with the market being to competition on the Groups sales, operating profits served by numerous competitors, ranging from national and cashflow.
multiple retailers to regional independent wholesalers.
We compete by closely monitoring the activities of our competitors and ensuring we continue to improve the choice, price and service to our customers.
Changes in Changing legislation may impact our The Group operates in an environment governed by strict regulation ability to market or sell certain products regulations to ensure the safety and protection of customers, or could cause the Group to incur shareholders, employees and other stakeholders and the additional costs or liabilities that operation of an open and competitive market.
These regulations could adversely affect its business.
include food hygiene, health and safety, data protection, the rules of the London Stock Exchange and competition law.
In all cases, the Board takes its responsibilities seriously, and recognises that any breach of regulation could cause reputational and financial damage to the Group.
Product quality This could have an adverse impact on The quality and safety of our products is of critical importance and safety the Groups reputation, sales, operating and any failure in this regard would affect the confidence of profits and cashflow.
We work with our suppliers to ensure the integrity of the products supplied.
Food hygiene practices are taken seriously throughout the Group, and are monitored both through internal audit procedures and by external bodies, such as environmental health departments, within local authorities.
We have well prepared procedures for crisis management in order to act quickly when required.
We are aware that if we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to deliver to our customers satisfaction the expected standards of quality and safety in our products, their loyalty to us may be potentially impacted.
This in turn could adversely impact on our market share and our financial results.
Employee The continued success of the Group The Groups employment policies, remuneration and benefits engagement relies on the investment in the training packages are designed to be competitive, as well as providing and retention and development of our employees.
colleagues with fulfilling career opportunities.
The Group continually engages with employees across the business to ensure that we keep strengthening our team at every level.
Supplier credit Availability of supplier credit is essential for The Group Finance Director regularly meets the key credit the Groups financial performance.
If the insurers to ensure that they have an up to date understanding providers of credit insurance withdraw or of the Groups financial position.
materially reduce the levels of cover they provide to the Groups trade creditors in respect of the Group, this might affect the Groups ability to obtain products from those suppliers on existing credit terms and could worsen the Groups cashflow.
14 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Risk Impact Mitigating factors Pension funding A worsening funding position may require The Group seeks to agree appropriate investment policies with the Group to pay cash contributions the Trustee and closely monitors the funding position of the or provide further assurance to cover Pension Scheme with the Trustee.
Both the Company and the future liabilities.
This could worsen the Trustee take advice from independent qualified actuaries.
Failure of the The maintenance and development of The Group has appropriate controls in place to mitigate the Groups information information technology systems may result risk of systems failure, including systems back up procedures technology systems in system failures, including cyber security and disaster recovery plans, and also has appropriate virus breaches which may adversely impact the protection and network security controls.
Groups ability to operate, which could affect the Groups sales, operating profits and cashflow.
Health and A health and safety related incident could The Group has developed an effective health and safety Safety risks result in serious injury to the Groups management system to ensure compliance with all legal duties employees, contractors, customers and placed on the organisation by law.
All systems are subject to visitors, which could adversely affect regular review with training provided as appropriate.
our operations and result in reputational The Group employs a Health and Safety manager to maintain damage, criminal prosecution and civil the management system, along with the identification and litigation.
This could affect the Groups remediation of specific risks, and ensuring employees are aware reputation, with a potentially adverse affect of regulatory requirements.
on sales, operating profits and cashflow.
Environmental A long term increase in energy prices The Group has a continual focus on reducing our environmental management could have an adverse effect on the impact and implementing changes to our operations to Group's sales, operating profits and maximise opportunities such as recycling more waste and using cashflow with an increasing cost to more renewable sources of fuel.
operations to adapt to climate change Greenhouse gas emissions are measured and reported annually.
Substantial investment is made to improve environmental risk management, with a focus on energy efficiency when investing in new capital projects.
Strategic report approval The Strategic Report, outlined on pages 1 to 15, incorporates the Highlights, the Business Profile and Key Performance Indicators, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Group Finance Directors Report, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report and the Risks and Uncertainties sections.
By order of the Board Mark Chilton Company Secretary 20 May 2015 15
