Principal risks and uncertainties Effective management and a robust assessment of risks is essential to the delivery of the Groups objective of creating superior shareholder returns.
The Groups risk framework was reviewed by the Board during 2015 and updated to ensure it continues to meet UK Corporate Governance requirements.
The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and the review of financial risk has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
Under the leadership of the Group Head of Risk, Bodycotes risk management framework is used to identify, report and manage its business critical risks.
The Risk Committee, established in 2012, continued to meet during the year, attended by senior managers from each of the operating divisions.
The role of the Risk Committee is to support the Group Head of Risk in identifying critical risks, to embed risk management and facilitate the implementation of risk management measures throughout the Group.
A variety of approaches is used to identify and report risks, which are aggregated first at a divisional level and then at Group level.
For each business critical risk, assurance activities have been documented in risk assurance maps and these are used to direct assurance activity.
The Group Head of Risk provides an update to the Audit Committee on the Groups risk activities at every meeting and a comprehensive review of the Groups business critical risks is presented in December, the Committee concluded that a robust assessment of the Groups principal risks had been undertaken.
In addition, the Board examines a specific risk topic at each Board meeting and in 2015 this included a discussion on Group risk appetite.
The table below highlights the major risks that may affect Bodycotes ability to deliver the strategy, as laid out on page 7.
These risks have been reviewed throughout the year and they have not materially changed since 2014.
In the 2014 Annual Report the Group highlighted the risk that Bodycotes operations could lead to damage to the environment.
This is not currently considered to be a material risk to the Group but is subject to regular review.
Details of the Groups financial risks funding, foreign exchange, interest rate and counterparty risks, which are managed by the Groups treasury function, are provided in note 19 to the financial statements.
The mitigating activities described below will help to reduce the impact or likelihood of the major risk occurring, although the Board recognises that it will not be possible to eliminate these risks entirely.
Furthermore, there could be risks that may be unknown or that may be judged to be insignificant at present, but may later prove to be significant.
For this reason business continuity plans have been prepared for all plants to provide for situations where specific risks have the potential to severely impact the business.
Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Market and customer risks Markets Bodycote operates in 24 countries The high proportion of fixed costs in Bodycotes presence in 24 and a substantial amount of sales are the business means that a drop in countries across a wide variety closely linked to the economic cycle sales will have a significant impact of end-markets acts as a natural and the general macro-economic on profitability.
Sales in the markets hedge to neutralise localised environment.
served by the AGI businesses 64% economic volatility.
of the total Group tend to develop in There is some flexibility in the line with or ahead of the economic cost base e. g. by ensuring that cycle, whereas aerospace and a proportion of the workforce is defence sales 24% tend to track employed on temporary contracts.
Sales to the energy sectors 12% are closely Changes in customer demand on linked to energy prices, which in turn a local or a Group-wide level are can be affected by general economic responded to quickly.
Loss of key customers Bodycote benefits from many The loss of a key customer could There is no significant customer long-term relationships with key adversely affect the Groups financial dependency, with the Groups top customers and the damage to, or results and the viability of one or ten customers accounting for less loss of, any of these relationships more of Bodycotes facilities.
than 15% of sales and the balance would be detrimental to the Group.
made up by many thousands of customers.
There is a continued focus on customer service and quality processes to maintain excellent relationships with major customers.
Key account management is in place and customer satisfaction is monitored.
24 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Market and customer risks continued Competitor action The entry of competitors into one The erosion of market share resulting The close control of proprietary or more of the Groups Specialist in loss of revenue and profit.
Rapid increase in the scale of the Groups offerings to maintain the position as supplier of choice.
Corporate and community risks Safety and health The nature of Bodycotes activities Bodycote is committed to Group-wide health and safety presents safety and health risks.
providing a safe work environment policies set by the Group Chief for its employees but Bodycotes Executive.
operations, if not properly managed, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 could have a significant impact on compliant SHE management individual employees.
Furthermore, systems being used by Group poor safety and health practices Head of Safety, Health and could lead to disruption of business, Environment with support of financial penalties and loss of divisional safety, health and reputation.
Programme in place to focus on reduction of incidents which could have a high impact.
Safety compliance audits at all plants at least every two years.
Oversight of safety and health framework provided by the Group SHE Committee.
Operational risks Service quality The Bodycote brand is reliant on the Deterioration in quality or service Bodycote has stringent quality repeatable delivery of parts to agreed levels can cause serious long-term systems in place managed by specification to an agreed time.
damage to Bodycotes reputation qualified staff.
with financial consequences such as Quality systems and processes the loss of a customer and the cost operated at plant level with of damages or litigation.
Work that oversight by divisional quality is released into use which is not in teams.
compliance with specification could arise as a result of system or human Where necessary, plants maintain failure.
industry relevant accreditations, such as ISO 9001, Nadcap and TS 16949.
All plants subjected to internal and external quality audits and inspections at least once a year.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Relevance to Risk description Impact Mitigation and control strategy Major disruption at a facility Bodycotes business processes Any significant incident at a site Bodycote has a global network are inherently risky and there is a could result in the service to of 178 facilities that creates a possibility that a major fire or utility Bodycotes customers from the framework to provide back-up outage could lead to closure of a affected site being disrupted.
capability for any affected facility.
In addition a Business continuity plans number of sites are exposed to developed and updated and natural hazards, such as earthquakes, tested annually for all plants.
Independent insurer inspections to assess hazard and business interruption risks.
Scheduled equipment maintenance and inspections.
Information technology projects The efficient operation of the Failure to manage the implementation Project approval and progress Group will rely increasingly on the of the ERP programme successfully subject to regular Board review.
proper development and operation could result in cost overruns and, Project teams made up of of its IT systems.
Bodycote is potentially, disruption to the business.
skilled subject matter experts currently undergoing a Group-wide supplemented with third party implementation of a new ERP advisers.
Best practice project management processes in place with assurance provided by third parties.
Defined disaster recovery planning and data backup procedures.
Regulatory risks Regulatory and legislative compliance The global nature of Bodycotes Failure to comply with legislation Business processes are supported operations means that the Group could lead to substantial financial by HR policies and the Group Code has to comply with a wide range penalties, disruption to business, of Conduct alongside training and of local and international legislative diversion of management time, awareness programmes.
requirements, including anti-bribery personal and corporate liability and The Open Door Line and anti-competition legislation, loss of reputation.
whistleblower facility which is taxation legislation, employment law managed by a third party.
and import and export controls.
Engagement of local specialists to support Bodycote at local, divisional and Group level.
Regular audit of the effectiveness of implemented procedures.
26 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Viability statement In preparing this statement of viability, the directors have considered the prospects of the Group over the three year period immediately following the 2015 financial year.
This longer-term assessment process supports the Boards statements on both viability, as set out below, and going concern on page 23.
A three year period was determined as the most appropriate as it is the period covered by the Groups annual strategic planning process, which sets the long-term direction of the Group and is reviewed at least annually by the directors.
The Board concluded that a period of longer than three years would not be meaningful for the purpose of concluding on longer-term viability, given the limited forward visibility of the Group.
The strategic plan considers metrics which enable assessment of the Groups key performance indicators including return on capital employed, headline earnings per share and headline operating cash flow in addition to net debt, liquidity and financing requirements.
In conducting the review of the Groups prospects the directors assessed the three year plan alongside the Groups current position, the Groups strategy and the principal risks facing the Group all of which are detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 26.
This assessment considered the impact of the principal risks on the business model and on future performance, liquidity and solvency and was mindful of the limited forward visibility that the Group has as it carries a minimal order backlog.
The directors viability assessment included a review of the sensitivity analysis performed on the three year plan, whereby the principal risks, and particularly those related to markets and customers see page 24, were applied to the plan in a number of diverging scenarios.
The developed scenarios were designed to be plausible, yet severe.
In making this viability statement the directors considered the mitigating actions that would be taken by the Group in the event that the principal risks of the Company become realised.
The directors also took into consideration the Groups financial position at 31 December 2015, with net cash of 12.3m, available committed facility headroom of 230m and a history of strong cash generation.
The directors have assessed the viability of the Group and, based on the procedures outlined above in addition to activities undertaken by the Board in its normal course of business, confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2018.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
