Strategic report access to nancing or engagement in our trading activities on acceptable terms, which could put pressure on the groups liquidity.
Credit rating downgrades Risk factors could trigger a requirement for the company to review its funding arrangements with the BP pension trustees and may cause other impacts on financial performance.
In the event of extended constraints on our ability to obtain nancing, we could be required to reduce capital expenditure or increase asset The risks discussed below, separately or in combination, could have disposals in order to provide additional liquidity.
See Liquidity and capital a material adverse effect on the implementation of our strategy, our resources on page 219 and Financial statements Note 28. business, financial performance, results of operations, cash ows, Joint arrangements and contractors we may have limited control liquidity, prospects, shareholder value and returns and reputation.
over the standards, operations and compliance of our partners, contractors and sub-contractors.
Strategic and commercial risks We conduct many of our activities through joint arrangements, associates or Prices and markets our financial performance is subject to uctuating with contractors and sub-contractors where we may have limited inuence and prices of oil, gas, rened products, technological change, exchange rate control over the performance of such operations.
Our partners and contractors uctuations, and the general macroeconomic outlook.
are responsible for the adequacy of the resources and capabilities they bring to Oil, gas and product prices are subject to international supply and demand and a project.
If these are found to be lacking, there may be financial, operational or margins can be volatile.
Political developments, increased supply from new oil safety risks for BP.
Should an incident occur in an operation that BP participates and gas sources, technological change, global economic conditions and the in, our partners and contractors may be unable or unwilling to fully compensate inuence of OPEC can impact supply and demand and prices for our products.
us against costs we may incur on their behalf or on behalf of the arrangement.
Decreases in oil, gas or product prices could have an adverse effect on revenue, Where we do not have operational control of a venture, we may still be pursued margins, profitability and cash ows.
If significant or for a prolonged period, we by regulators or claimants in the event of an incident.
may have to write down assets and re-assess the viability of certain projects, Digital infrastructure and cybersecurity breach of our digital security which may impact future cash ows, profit, capital expenditure and ability to or failure of our digital infrastructure could damage our operations and our maintain our long-term investment programme.
Conversely, an increase in oil, reputation.
gas and product prices may not improve margin performance as there could be A breach or failure of our digital infrastructure due to intentional actions such as increased scal take, cost ination and more onerous terms for access to attacks on our cybersecurity, negligence or other reasons, could seriously resources.
The profitability of our rening and petrochemicals activities can be disrupt our operations and could result in the loss or misuse of data or sensitive volatile, with periodic over-supply or supply tightness in regional markets and information, injury to people, disruption to our business, harm to the uctuations in demand.
environment or our assets, legal or regulatory breaches and potentially legal Exchange rate uctuations can create currency exposures and impact liability.
These could result in significant costs or reputational consequences.
Crude oil prices are generally set in US dollars, Climate change and carbon pricing public policies could increase while products vary in currency.
Many of our major project development costs costs and reduce future revenue and strategic growth opportunities.
are denominated in local currencies, which may be subject to uctuations Changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to climate change could against the US dollar.
result in substantial capital expenditure, taxes and reduced profitability.
In the Access, renewal and reserves progression our inability to future, these could potentially impact our assets, revenue generation and access, renew and progress upstream resources in a timely manner strategic growth opportunities.
could adversely affect our long-term replacement of reserves.
Competition inability to remain efficient, innovate and retain an Delivering our group strategy depends on our ability to continually replenish a appropriately skilled workforce could negatively impact delivery of our strong exploration pipeline of future opportunities to access and produce oil and strategy in a highly competitive market.
Competition for access to investment opportunities, heightened Our strategic progress and performance could be impeded if we are unable to political and economic risks in certain countries where significant hydrocarbon control our development and operating costs and margins, or to sustain, basins are located and increasing technical challenges and capital commitments develop and operate a high-quality portfolio of assets efficiently.
We could be may adversely affect our strategic progress.
This, and our ability to progress adversely affected if competitors offer superior terms for access rights or upstream resources and sustain long-term reserves replacement, could impact licences, or if our innovation in areas such as exploration, production, rening or our future production and financial performance.
Our performance could also be negatively Major project delivery failure to invest in the best opportunities impacted if we fail to protect our intellectual property.
or deliver major projects successfully could adversely affect our Our industry faces increasing challenge to recruit and retain skilled and financial performance.
experienced people in the elds of science, technology, engineering and We face challenges in developing major projects, particularly in geographically mathematics.
Successful recruitment, development and retention of specialist and technically challenging areas.
Operational challenges and poor investment staff is essential to our plans.
choice, efficiency or delivery at any major project that underpins production or Crisis management and business continuity potential disruption to production growth could adversely affect our financial performance.
our business and operations could occur if we do not address an incident Geopolitical we are exposed to a range of political developments and effectively.
consequent changes to the operating and regulatory environment.
Our business and operating activities could be disrupted if we do not respond, We operate and may seek new opportunities in countries and regions where or are perceived not to respond, in an appropriate manner to any major crisis or political, economic and social transition may take place.
Political instability, if we are not able to restore or replace critical operational capacity.
changes to the regulatory environment or taxation, international sanctions, Insurance our insurance strategy could expose the group to material expropriation or nationalization of property, civil strife, strikes, insurrections, uninsured losses.
acts of terrorism and acts of war may disrupt or curtail our operations or BP generally purchases insurance only in situations where this is legally and development activities.
These may in turn cause production to decline, limit our contractually required.
We typically bear losses as they arise rather than ability to pursue new opportunities, affect the recoverability of our assets or spreading them over time through insurance premiums.
This means uninsured cause us to incur additional costs, particularly due to the long-term nature of losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, particularly many of our projects and significant capital expenditure required.
if they arise at a time when we are facing material costs as a result of a Events in or relating to Russia, including further trade restrictions and other significant operational event which could put pressure on our liquidity and cash sanctions, could adversely impact our income and investment in Russia.
ability to pursue business objectives and to recognize production and reserves relating to Russia could also be adversely impacted.
Liquidity, financial capacity and financial, including credit, exposure failure to work within our financial framework could impact our ability to operate and result in financial loss.
Failure to accurately forecast, manage or maintain sufficient liquidity and credit could impact our ability to operate and result in financial loss.
Trade and other receivables, including overdue receivables, may not be recovered and a substantial and unexpected cash call or funding request could disrupt our financial framework or overwhelm our ability to meet our obligations.
An event such as a significant operational incident, legal proceedings or a geopolitical event in an area where we have significant activities, could reduce our credit ratings.
This could potentially increase nancing costs and limit BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 53 Dened on page 256. response to public pressure on nances, resulting in increased amounts payable to Safety and operational risks them or their agencies.
Such factors could increase the cost of compliance, reduce our profitability in Process safety, personal safety, and environmental risks we are certain jurisdictions, limit our opportunities for new access, require us to divest exposed to a wide range of health, safety, security and environmental risks or write down certain assets or curtail or cease certain operations, or affect the that could result in regulatory action, legal liability, increased costs, damage adequacy of our provisions for pensions, tax, decommissioning, environmental to our reputation and potentially denial of our licence to operate.
Potential changes to pension or financial market regulation Technical integrity failure, natural disasters, human error and other adverse could also impact funding requirements of the group.
events or conditions could lead to loss of containment of hydrocarbons or other hazardous materials, as well as res, explosions or other personal and process Following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, there have been cases of additional safety incidents, including when drilling wells, operating facilities and those oversight and more stringent regulation of BP and other companies oil and gas associated with transportation by road, sea or pipeline.
activities in the US and elsewhere, particularly relating to environmental, health and safety controls and oversight of drilling operations, which could result in There can be no certainty that our operating management system or other increased compliance costs.
In addition, we may be subjected to a higher policies and procedures will adequately identify all process safety, personal number of citations and level of fines imposed in relation to any alleged safety and environmental risks or that all our operating activities will be breaches of safety or environmental regulations, which could result in increased conducted in conformance with these systems.
Such events, including a marine incident, or inability to provide safe Ethical misconduct and non-compliance ethical misconduct or environments for our workforce and the public while at our facilities, premises breaches of applicable laws by our businesses or our employees could be or during transportation, could lead to injuries, loss of life or environmental damaging to our reputation, and could result in litigation, regulatory action damage.
We could as a result face regulatory action and legal liability, including penalties and remediation obligations, increased costs and potentially denial of and penalties.
Our activities are sometimes conducted in hazardous, Incidents of ethical misconduct or non-compliance with applicable laws and remote or environmentally sensitive locations, where the consequences of regulations, including anti-bribery and corruption and anti-fraud laws, trade such events could be greater than in other locations.
restrictions or other sanctions, or non-compliance with the recommendations of the ethics monitor appointed under the terms of the DoJ and EPA Drilling and production challenging operational environments and other settlements, could damage our reputation, result in litigation, regulatory action uncertainties can impact drilling and production activities.
Our activities require high levels of investment and are often conducted in Treasury and trading activities ineffective oversight of treasury and extremely challenging environments which heighten the risks of technical integrity failure and the impact of natural disasters.
The physical characteristics trading activities could lead to business disruption, financial loss, regulatory of an oil or natural gas eld, and cost of drilling, completing or operating wells is intervention or damage to our reputation.
We may be required to curtail, delay or cancel drilling We are subject to operational risk around our treasury and trading activities in operations because of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling financial and commodity markets, some of which are regulated.
Failure to conditions, pressure or irregularities in geological formations, equipment process, manage and monitor a large number of complex transactions across failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions and compliance with many markets and currencies while complying with all regulatory requirements governmental requirements.
could hinder profitable trading opportunities.
There is a risk that a single trader or a group of traders could act outside of our delegations and controls, leading Security hostile acts against our staff and activities could cause harm to to regulatory intervention and resulting in financial loss and potentially damaging people and disrupt our operations.
Acts of terrorism, piracy, sabotage and similar activities directed against our operations and facilities, pipelines, transportation or digital infrastructure could cause Reporting failure to accurately report our data could lead to regulatory harm to people and severely disrupt business and operations.
Our activities could action, legal liability and reputational damage.
also be severely affected by conict, civil strife or political unrest.
External reporting of financial and non-financial data, including reserves estimates, relies on the integrity of systems and people.
Failure to report data Product quality supplying customers with off-specication products accurately and in compliance with applicable standards could result in could damage our reputation, lead to regulatory action and legal liability, regulatory action, legal liability and damage to our reputation.
and potentially impact our financial performance.
Failure to meet product quality standards could cause harm to people and the Gulf of Mexico oil spill environment, damage our reputation, result in regulatory action and legal liability, and impact financial performance.
There continues to be uncertainty regarding the extent and timing of the remaining costs and liabilities relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill not Compliance and control risks covered by the proposed Consent Decree and the Settlement Agreement.
The proposed Consent Decree between the United States, the five Gulf Coast US government settlements our settlements with legal and regulatory states and BP and the Settlement Agreement between BP and the Gulf Coast bodies in the US announced in November 2012 in respect of certain states will, subject to these becoming effective, settle all federal and state charges related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill may expose us to further claims arising from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
The proposed Consent penalties, liabilities and private litigation or could result in suspension or Decree and the Settlement Agreement are conditional upon each other and debarment of certain BP entities.
neither will become effective until there is final approval of the Consent Decree.
Settlements with the US Department of Justice DoJ and the US Securities There continues to be uncertainty regarding the extent and timing of the and Exchange Commission SEC impose significant compliance and remedial remaining costs and liabilities relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill not covered obligations on BP and its directors, ofcers and employees, including the by the proposed Consent Decree and the Settlement Agreement.
For items not appointment of an ethics monitor, a process safety monitor and an independent covered by the proposed Consent Decree and the Settlement Agreement and third-party auditor.
Failure to comply with the terms of these settlements could for further information, see Financial statements Note 2 and Legal result in further enforcement action by the DoJ and the SEC, expose us to proceedings page 237. severe penalties, financial or otherwise, and subject BP to further private litigation, each of which could impact our operations and have a material adverse effect on the groups reputation and financial performance.
Failure to satisfy the requirements or comply with the terms of the administrative agreement with the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA, under which BP agreed to a set of safety and operations, ethics and compliance and corporate governance requirements, could result in suspension or debarment of certain BP entities.
Regulation changes in the regulatory and legislative environment could increase the cost of compliance, affect our provisions and limit our access to new exploration opportunities.
Governments that award exploration and production interests may impose specic drilling obligations, environmental, health and safety controls, controls over the development and decommissioning of a eld and possibly, nationalization, expropriation, cancellation or non-renewal of contract rights.
Royalties and taxes tend to be high compared with those of other commercial activities, and in certain jurisdictions there is a degree of uncertainty relating to tax law interpretation and The Strategic report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf by changes.
Governments may change their scal and regulatory frameworks in David J Jackson, company secretary on 4 March 2016.
54 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
