Strategic report BPs group risk team analyses the groups risk prole and maintains the group risk management system.
Our group audit team provides Our management of risk independent assurance to the group chief executive and board, as to whether the groups system of internal control is adequately designed and operating effectively to respond appropriately to the risks that are BP manages, monitors and reports on the principal risks and uncertainties significant to BP.
that can impact our ability to deliver our strategy of meeting the worlds Risk governance and oversight energy needs responsibly while creating long-term shareholder value: these risks are described in the Risk factors on page 53.
Key risk governance and oversight committees include the following: Our management systems, organizational structures, processes, Executive committees standards, code of conduct and behaviours together form a system of Executive team meeting for strategic and commercial risks.
internal control that governs how we conduct the business of BP and manage associated risks.
Group operations risk committee for health, safety, security, environment and operations integrity risks.
BPs risk management system BPs risk management system and policy is designed to be a consistent Group financial risk committee for finance, treasury, trading and and clear framework for managing and reporting risks from the groups cyber risks.
The system seeks to avoid incidents and maximize Group disclosure committee for financial reporting risks.
business outcomes by allowing us to: Group people committee for employee risks.
Understand the risk environment, and assess the specic risks and potential exposure for BP.
Group ethics and compliance committee for legal and regulatory compliance and ethics risks.
Determine how best to deal with these risks to manage overall potential exposure.
Resource commitment meeting for investment decision risks.
Manage the identied risks in appropriate ways.
Board and its committees Monitor and seek assurance of the effectiveness of the management of these risks and intervene for improvement where necessary.
Report up the management chain and to the board on a periodic basis Audit committee.
on how significant risks are being managed, monitored, assured and the improvements that are being made.
Safety, ethics and environment assurance committee.
Our risk management activities Geopolitical committee.
Day-to-day risk Business and Oversight and management strategic risk governance management Risk governance Identify, manage Set policy For further information on risk management and internal control, and report risks Plan, manage and monitor see page 93, and board and committee reports on page 64. performance principal risks and assure Risk management processes As part of BPs annual planning process, we review the groups principal risks and uncertainties.
These may be updated throughout the year in response to changes in internal and external circumstances.
We aim for a consistent basis of measuring risk to allow comparison on a Facilities, Business Executive Board like-for-like basis, taking into account potential likelihood and impact, and to assets and segments and corporate inform how we prioritize specic risk management activities and invest operations and functions functions resources to manage them.
Our risk profile Day-to-day risk management management and staff at our facilities, assets and functions identify and manage risk, promoting safe, compliant The nature of our business operations is long term, resulting in many of our and reliable operations.
BP requirements, which take into account risks being enduring in nature.
Nonetheless, risks can develop and evolve applicable laws and regulations, underpin the practical plans developed to over time and their potential impact or likelihood may vary in response to help reduce risk and deliver strong, sustainable performance.
For example, internal and external events.
our operating management system OMS integrates BP requirements We identify those risks as having a high priority for particular oversight by on health, safety, security, environment, social responsibility, operational the board and its various committees in the coming year.
Those identied reliability and related issues.
These may be updated throughout the Business and strategic risk management our businesses and year in response to changes in internal and external circumstances.
The functions integrate risk into key business processes such as strategy, oversight and management of other risks is undertaken in the normal planning, performance management, resource and capital allocation, and course of business throughout the business and in executive and board project appraisal.
We do this by using a standard framework for collating committees.
risk data, assessing risk management activities, making further There can be no certainty that our risk management activities will mitigate improvements and planning new activities.
or prevent these, or other risks, from occurring.
Oversight and governance functional leadership, the executive Further details of the principal risks and uncertainties we face are set out in team, the board and relevant committees provide oversight to identify, Risk factors on page 53. understand and endorse management of significant risks to BP.
They also put in place systems of risk management, compliance and control to mitigate these risks.
Executive committees set policy and oversee the management of significant risks, and dedicated board committees review and monitor certain risks throughout the year.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 51 Security Risks for particular oversight by the board and its Hostile acts such as terrorism or piracy could harm our people and disrupt our committees in 2016 operations.
We monitor for emerging threats and vulnerabilities to manage our The risks for particular oversight by the board and its committees in 2016 physical and information security.
have been reviewed and updated.
These risks remain the same as in 2015 Our central security team provides guidance and support to our businesses other than the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and major project delivery risks, through a network of regional security advisers who advise and conduct which are no longer considered to require this additional oversight in 2016. assurance with respect to the management of security risks affecting our Financial resilience has been added to the high priority risks for particular people and operations.
We also maintain disaster recovery, crisis and business oversight in 2016.
This update reflects the proposed settlements between continuity management plans.
We continue to monitor threats globally and, in BP, the United States government and the five Gulf Coast states with particular, the situation in the Middle East and North Africa.
respect to federal and state claims arising from the oil spill, as well as current market conditions.
Both the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and major Compliance and control risks project delivery risks will continue to be monitored as appropriate by the board and its committees in the normal course of risk oversight and Ethical misconduct and legal or regulatory non-compliance management.
Ethical misconduct or breaches of applicable laws or regulations could damage our reputation, adversely affect operational results and shareholder value, and Strategic and commercial risks potentially affect our licence to operate.
Financial resilience Our code of conduct and our values and behaviours, applicable to all External market conditions can impact our financial performance.
Supply and employees, are central to managing this risk.
Additionally, we have various demand and the prices achieved for our products can be affected by a wide group requirements and training covering areas such as anti-bribery and range of factors including political developments, technological change, global corruption, anti-money laundering, competition anti-trust law and international economic conditions and the influence of OPEC.
We seek to keep abreast of new regulations and legislation and plan our response to them.
We offer an independent condential helpline, We actively manage this risk through BPs diversied portfolio, our financial OpenTalk, for employees, contractors and other third parties.
Under the terms framework, liquidity stress testing, regular reviews of market conditions and of the 2012 criminal settlement with the US Department of Justice and the our planning and investment processes.
2014 settlement with the US Environmental Protection Agency, an ethics For more information on our financial framework see page 18, Our monitor is reviewing and providing recommendations concerning BPs ethics strategy on page 13, Our markets in 2015 on page 24 and Liquidity and compliance programme.
and capital resources on page 219.
See our Longer-term viability Find out more about our code of conduct and our business ethics on statement on page 94. page 48, and the ethics monitor on page 42.
Geopolitical Trading non-compliance The diverse locations of our operations around the world expose us to a wide In the normal course of business, we are subject to risks around our trading range of political developments and consequent changes to the economic and activities which could arise from shortcomings or failures in our systems, risk operating environment.
Geopolitical risk is inherent to many regions in which management methodology, internal control processes or employees.
we operate, and heightened political or social tensions or changes in key relationships could adversely affect the group.
We have specic operating standards and control processes to manage these risks, including guidelines specic to trading, and seek to monitor compliance We seek to actively manage this risk through development and maintenance through our dedicated compliance teams.
We also seek to maintain a positive of relationships with governments and stakeholders and becoming trusted and collaborative relationship with regulators and the industry at large.
partners in each country and region.
In addition, we closely monitor events and implement risk mitigation plans where appropriate.
We established a new For further information see Upstream gas marketing and trading board committee focusing on geopolitical risk in 2015. activities on page 33, Downstream supply and trading on page 36 and Financial statements Note 28.
Cybersecurity The threats to the security of our digital infrastructure continue to evolve rapidly and, like many other global organizations, our reliance on computers and network technology is increasing.
A cybersecurity breach could have a significant impact on business operations.
We seek to manage this risk through a range of measures, which include cybersecurity standards, ongoing monitoring of threats and testing of cyber response procedures and equipment.
We collaborate closely with governments, law enforcement agencies and industry peers to understand and respond to new and emerging cyber threats.
Campaigns and presentations on topics such as email phishing and protecting our information and equipment have helped to raise employee awareness of these issues.
Safety and operational risks Process safety, personal safety and environmental risks The nature of the groups operating activities exposes us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks such as incidents associated with releases of hydrocarbons when drilling wells, operating facilities and transporting hydrocarbons.
Our OMS helps us manage these risks and drive performance improvements.
It sets out the rules and principles which govern key risk management activities such as inspection, maintenance, testing, business continuity and crisis response planning and competency development.
In addition, we conduct our drilling activity through a global wells organization in order to promote a consistent approach for designing, constructing and managing wells.
For more information on safety and our OMS see page 43.
52 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
