Risk management The Board is required to assess the prospects of the The Groups financial plan has been stress tested against scenarios Company, taking account of its current position and to assess the future viability of the Group.
The potentially highest principal risks, and to explain how this has been done, over impact risks, from a Group viability point of view, are seen as what period and why that period is considered appropriate.
those which arise from a downturn in the economic environment within the UK, leading to decreased affordability, reduced The assessment context demand for housing and falling house prices.
In modelling an economic downturn assumptions have been applied to the plan The Board has considered the longer term viability of the Group, numbers that are based on the Groups experience and the wider reviewing this over a 5 year period based on the strategy as sectors experience of historical declines in the housing cycle.
outlined on pages 18 to 24, the current performance of the Group and its principal risks.
The average life cycle of our Specifically our economic downturn scenario has applied housing developments falls within a 5 year time period and this sensitivities to the assumptions on sales rates, pricing and costs aligns with the timeframe focused on for the annual strategic but has assumed that current interest rate policies remain in review exercise conducted within the business and reviewed place and does not specifically evaluate the impact of a material by the Board.
It is also in line with the financing arrangement change to the current political climate which is supportive of renewed by the Group in 2015. the housebuilding sector.
The sensitivities along with the impact The Groups current strategy was communicated in detail during of the expected mitigating actions that would be taken by the 2014 and remains unchanged.
The Board has considered the Group, were overlaid on the Groups 5 year Strategic Plan.
Groups risk appetite and believe this to be towards the lower The key mitigating actions we expect the business to take in a end of the risk scale for the housebuilding sector.
The Board downturn include restricting investment in land, reducing the have highlighted the following elements of the strategy as key level of production and work in progress held and optimising our considerations in reaching this view, all of which have an impact overhead base to ensure it aligns with the scale of operations on the Groups key investment decisions: through the cycle.
Focused on a Southern biased geography The results of this stress testing indicated that the Group would be able to able to withstand the impact of these assumptions, Targeted at edge of town and large village greenfield locations taking into account the impact of mitigating actions, on the Delivering a high proportion of standard Portfolio Groups financial performance.
designed housing Viability statement Traditional two storey family housing is the core product Based on the results of this analysis, the Board have a reasonable offering with only limited low rise apartments in the mix expectation that the Company will be able to continue in The Groups strategy is to be more or less self-financing in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five terms of growth ambitions with low levels of debt and modest year period reviewed.
land creditors Going concern The assessment process and assumptions The directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the During 2015, the Board carried out a robust assessment of the financial statements on the going concern basis, as explained in principal risks facing the Group, including those that would the Basis of preparation paragraph in note 1.3 to the accounts.
threaten the execution of its strategy, future performance In forming this view, the Group has analysed its forecast and liquidity.
Management and mitigations of those principal risks covenant compliance over the period linked to its banking have been taken into consideration when considering the future arrangement, arriving at an assessment of the headroom evident viability of the Group.
The Groups principal risk review, as set out between the forecast covenant headroom and the outcomes on pages 26 to 29, considers the impact of these principal risks necessary to achieve covenant compliance.
and the mitigating controls that are in place.
As part of its The Group entered into its current banking arrangement on annual strategic review the Board considered the Groups 5 year 3 December 2015.
This arrangement provides a committed financial plan, the core assumptions underpinning this plan and revolving credit facility with a limit of 250 million maturing how the current economic environment may impact this plan.
The Group regards its current banking The early years of the financial plan are prepared in detail with the arrangement as adequate for its needs in terms of flexibility basis being the development of our existing land bank.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group had nil There is inherently more uncertainty in the later years of the drawings under the facility and had net cash of 30 million.
plan as these incorporate a higher level of assumed housing completions from land owned currently without planning or land More details on the Groups approach to financial risk not currently owned by the Group.
management are laid out in note 4.6.
30 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Our business and strategy | Strategic report Our business and strategy Abbotswood Romsey Bovis Homes Group PLC | 31
