strategic report our risks The board has overall accountability for ensuring that risk is As with any business we face risks and effectively managed across the group and is supported by the Audit uncertainties.
We believe that effective risk Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of the group risk process.
Each business area is responsible for identifying, assessing and management supports the successful managing the risks in their respective area with a clear owner for delivery of our strategic objectives and each risk.
The major risks are reported and reviewed by the executive team on a quarterly basis and with the board at least twice this can be achieved by ensuring a year.
appropriate awareness and engagement across the business to drive robust risk Key areas of focus assessment, review and mitigation.
We continue to drive improvements to our risk management process and the quality of risk information generated, whilst at the same time maintaining a straightforward approach.
The Executive Committee and board considered the risks described below as the risk impact new or increasing principal risks facing our business during the year.
These are not the only risks that may impact the group but they are the ones that we risk impact unchanged believe are the most significant at this time.
PRINCIPAL RISK RISK MITIGATION Consumer Consumer preferences, tastes and behaviours evolve over We offer a broad range of products across a number of preference time and differ between the different markets in which we sub-categories and markets.
Our ability to anticipate and successfully respond consumer trends in order to anticipate changes in to this evolving landscape is important to our business.
It preferences and match our offerings to these trends is essential that we continue to differentiate our brands through our brand and innovation plans.
Our portfolio and create innovative products.
Failure to anticipate of brands and track record in innovation means that we changing consumer preferences and needs could result in are well placed to continue to meet changing consumers switching away from Britvic products.
For example in GB this year we launched J O Spritz and Teisseire and 2 continued the roll-out of the Ballygowan water brand and in France our Teisseire pump pack is going from strength to strength.
Health and There are different consumer preferences in various markets We work closely with governments, NGOs and trade obesity concerns to sugar, natural and artificial sweeteners.
However there is associations in our markets to fully participate in the currently a high level of media and government scrutiny on debate and help shape solutions.
health and obesity in our core markets: GB, Ireland and We offer a wide range of soft drinks, many of which are France.
Sugary drinks are often cited as one of the issues low or no sugar, and believe our portfolio is well placed affecting national obesity levels in media reports.
There is a to meet consumers changing needs.
We continue to risk that one or more governments may introduce legislation reformulate products where we can to reduce sugar that impacts on sugar sweetened soft drinks.
Additionally, levels and have removed some added sugar products negative reporting and lack of understanding could result in from the market.
For example, we recently removed all consumers switching away from our products or spending Robinsons and Fruit Shoot added sugar variants from less on soft drinks.
Additionally we play a leading role in encouraging people to live healthier lifestyles through our consumer marketing campaigns.
With our broad portfolio and track record in innovation, we equally consider this to be an opportunity for our business.
Retailer Maintaining strong relationships with customers is critical We operate across many different customer channels and landscape and for our brands to be available and well presented to our markets.
We closely monitor customer performance and customer consumers.
There is a risk that we may not be able to trends in order to be able to respond to these changes.
We relationships maintain strong relationships or respond to changes in the work in partnership with our customers to develop retailer landscape that may impact our terms of business compelling offerings for their shoppers based on our with customers and or the availability and presentation of understanding of their business and the soft drinks our brands.
Recently we invested in a new high-speed PET line in Leeds which will enable us to respond to customer and consumer needs through improved capability to produce different pack sizes.
Third party Our partnership with PepsiCo and distributors and We place significant emphasis on developing our relationships franchisees is an important part of our business and relationship with PepsiCo and other partners, which delivery of our strategy going forward.
We currently bottle includes maintaining an appropriate level of and co-market a number of PepsiCo products in GB and communication between the businesses to discuss Ireland, including 7UP and Pepsi.
Additionally we have a strategy and manage operational delivery.
The Pepsi relationship with a number of partners around the world to and 7UP bottling agreement for Ireland was recently grow our family, adult and kids brands outside of our core renewed for ten years which further strengthens our markets.
There is a risk that these partnerships may not long term relationship with PepsiCo.
be renewed or renewed on less favourable terms which could have a significant impact on our business.
28 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements other information strategic report our risks continued PRINCIPAL RISK RISK MITIGATION International As we continue to grow our International business it is We carry out extensive due diligence prior to entering expansion important that we have the appropriate governance, into a new market.
We closely monitor market and systems and processes in place as well as the ability to country information provided by our partners and monitor and respond to geo-political issues and local business units.
Our current geographic spread means regulatory matters.
There is a risk that our plan to grow our that currently our exposure to emerging markets whilst International business is limited by global volatility, the risks growing is relatively limited and our international associated with start-up profitability and regulations.
strategy which uses a mixture of asset light franchise and business acquisitions also reduces our exposure to this risk.
Supply chain Our business depends on purchasing a wide variety of Our active risk management strategy includes close products, efficient manufacturing and distribution monitoring of market conditions and where appropriate processes.
hedging our contractual positions on certain commodities.
There is a risk that we are not able to source the products and or that the cost of our products is We have robust supplier strategy, selection, monitoring significantly affected by commodity price movements and management processes and we seek to maintain and environmental factors.
Additionally our supply chain multiple sources of supply for our products wherever network is exposed to potentially adverse events such as possible.
environmental or industrial accidents, either at one of our Safety at our sites is at the heart of what we do and we sites or that of a key supplier.
have externally certified management systems across the supply chain to support the management of health and safety.
Additionally we review and manage the resilience of our sites to significant events and put protection in place where practical and beneficial to the business to do so.
Safe and high Our products are of a very high quality and are not high risk We have robust quality and supplier control measures quality products products for causing harm to our consumers.
However there and processes in place to maintain the high quality of is a risk that a faulty or contaminated product, either through our products supplied at all times.
malicious contamination, human error or equipment failure, is supplied to the market.
Legal and Britvic is subject to a wide range of legislation, regulation, Our regulatory and legal teams monitor and ensure regulatory guidance and codes of practice in areas such as compliance with all relevant legislation and regulations.
composition, labelling, packaging, marketing claims, We work closely with our external advisors and the advertising, safety, environment, competition, tax and regulators, government bodies and trade associations employee health and safety.
Failure to comply with such regarding current and future legislation which would requirements could have a significant impact on our impact upon the business.
reputation and or incur financial penalties.
Additionally new or amended requirements could have an impact on our We have externally certified management systems cost of doing business.
across the supply chain to support the management of health, safety and environment.
We provide training for employees on the Britvic code of conduct and specific areas such as competition and anti-bribery laws, health and safety and environment.
Systems and Our operations are increasingly dependent on IT systems The management of our data centre has been information and management information.
We interact electronically outsourced to a professional provider with robust with customers, suppliers and consumers and our supply disaster recovery plans which are tested every year.
chain operations are dependent on reliable IT systems and We are increasing focus on improving information infrastructure.
Disruption to our IT systems could have a security policies and creating awareness of cyber risks significant impact on our sales, cash flows and profits.
across the business in line with the UK Governments Additionally and in common with many businesses, there is guidance.
a risk around cyber security that could lead to the unauthorised access to, or loss of sensitive information.
Treasury and Britvic is exposed to a variety of external financial risks in We monitor exchange rates and interest rates and have pension relation to treasury and pension.
Changes to exchange active risk management and hedging strategies in place rates and interest rates can have an impact on business to manage exchange and interest fluctuations.
results and the cost of interest on our debt.
We work with the Trustees of the pension fund to agree Additionally the GB business has a defined benefit pension future investment and funding strategies.
plan which whilst closed to new employees and future accruals is exposed to movements in interest rates, values of assets and increased life expectancy.
The Strategic Report was approved by the board of directors on 24 November 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Simon Litherland Chief Executive Officer Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 29 32 Corporate governance report 34 Board of directors 43 Audit Committee 46 Nomination Committee 48 Remuneration Committee 48 Directors remuneration report 53 Annual report on remuneration 70 Directors report 73 Statement of directors responsibilities 30 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report gover governance finance financial statements other information Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 31
