BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk management and principal risks 33 Strategic Report risks, progress of agreedmitigation strategies and any The system of internal changes to the likelihood or potential impact of key risks.
Eachkey risk is allocated a business owner, overseen by controls utilised to therelevant member of the Leadership Team.
The Audit Committee review focuses on those risks that identify, assess, manage could have most impact on achieving the 2021 financial targets.
Included within the reports to the Audit Committee and mitigate the key risks isan explanation of any changes in the risks, controls or mitigation since the last report, so the Audit Committee can facing the business.
clearly understand what has changed inthe business, how the risks are being addressed and the adequacy and impact of the mitigation efforts.
Risk management framework The Audit Committee then summarises the risk report anditsfindings to the whole Board.
The Board discussion Maintenance of the Groups risk management and internal focuses on the level of comfort that the risks being taken are control systems is the responsibility of and a key focus for appropriate in light of the Groups strategy.
As part of the theBoard of Directors.
The Boards role is to ensure that review the Board considers what would represent an therisks taken by the Group are understood and appropriate appropriate risk appetite in key areas.
in light of its strategy and corporate goals, and that adequate internal processes are in place to identify, assess, monitor, Occasionally the Audit Committee will undertake a deep dive manage and mitigate key risks effectively.
assessment of a key risk to better understand its nature and to consider available mitigation options that could be deployed The Company has adopted a risk management strategy to better manage that risk, together with the costs, timelines intended to achieve that objective, regarding both risks and likelihood of success of those options.
This process arisingfrom the internal operations of the Group and also assists the Board to shape the definition of the Groups risk those arising from the continually changing business appetite, having ensured it is appropriate with regard to the environment and markets in which it operates.
The Board also considers new material risks Company aims toidentify and manage such risks, no risk in a timely fashion as they arise.
management strategy can provide absolute assurance against loss or unforeseen events occurring, ormitigations The risk group works in coordination with the Internal Audit proving ineffective.
The Company operates in a relatively group and compliance, development, quality and other highrisk sector and risk is inherent in its growth strategy.
assurance groups to integrate governance activities to ensurean overall robust risk management process.
Risk management is embedded throughout the Groups operations and functions.
Risks are identified and assessed byoperational staff and managers and are collated GroupPrincipal risks wide into a composite Risk Register for review by a Risk Here we describe what we believe are the most significant Committee, which comprises senior members of staff risks that could materially affect the Groups ability to achieve representing relevant parts of the business and key functions its financial goals and operating objectives.
The list is not as well as members ofthe Leadership Team.
exhaustive although other risks are deemed less material Key changes during the year were to embed further the risk at this time.
Given the nature of our business, risks process in day-to-day business unit operations and assess continuallychange.
therisks in relationto their potential impact on the business As a general risk the existing and future products launched by units and the wider Group achieving its 2021 corporate goals.
the Company may not be a commercial success: depending The timeframe for assessing risks hasincreased from looking on the receipt and scope of the applicable required marketing forward three years to assessing therisk to 2021.
In addition, approvals and the time andinvestments required to obtain the materiality of each risk isassessed in relation to its impact approvals : product acceptance by physicians and patients: on achieving forecast revenues and other key measures of commercially viable levels of product reimbursement being success, in particular the 2021 target of achieving over established: safety and efficacy continuing to be $1.25bn inrevenue in Interventional Medicine.
demonstrated: the impact ofcompetition and the successful The Risk Committee is chaired by the CFO, Rolf Soderstrom.
enforcement of protecting or blocking third party intellectual Individuals in the business managing discrete risks on a property rights.
day-to-day basis update their business unit Risk Registers The pharmaceutical and device industries are competitive regularly and the overall Risk Register is reviewed at least and require substantial ongoing product innovation, twice yearly by the Risk Committee and formally reported to investment and product development to sustain the Audit Committee, following which it is considered by the a competitive advantage.
Existing products could be Board.
In the intervening periods the status of key risks are renderedobsolete, uncompetitive or uneconomic having tracked and reported to the Leadership Team and the Board.
regard to product development by other companies or Thefocus is on identifying and understanding newly emergent BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk management and principal risks continued 34 Strategic Report reimbursement levels.
The Companys success will continue distributors AngioDynamics and Terumo respectively have to depend on its ability to develop, in-license or acquire new announced plans to launch embolic beads of their own.
products and businesses and to realise the expected benefit InJanuary we completed the acquisition of PneumRx from such activities by the application of resources and addingthe RePneu Coil to our portfolio.
There is an existing effectively integrating the opportunities into the Group.
Failure competitor in the form of the Pulmonx, Inc. valve.
As noted, to in-license, acquire or develop and effectively progress or Bioclon have received US approval for a competitor to CroFab.
integrate new product opportunities on a commercially 2.
Research and development viable basis, could have a material adverse effect on the Impact: Failure to implement our research and development Companys revenues.
strategy or failure to achieve the desired safety and efficacy The following specifically assessed risks not ranked product profiles in our research and development have thehighest potential impact on the Group achieving programmes, could result in an inability to deliver new its2021 targets.
products and new approved indications for existing products, which would have a material detrimental effect on the 1.
Competition sustainability of the business and on its mediumto longImpact: The Group operates in competitive markets.
Failure of programmes could The products on which BTG currently earns revenues, result from lack of organisational resource or capability or from which it anticipates earning revenues once on deficiencies, from not aligning R&D programmes with themarket, face competition from other products that are commercial objectives: from changes in the regulatory already approved or in development.
Competing products landscape making it more difficult to conduct the planned mayhave superior attributes, including better efficacy R&D programmes or to achieve clinical results and approvals: or side effect profiles, cost less toproduce or be offered or from the products not having the clinical benefits or safety at a lower price than BTGs product.
Such competition profiles that were anticipated.
could materially adversely impact Grouprevenues.
Mitigation: Capabilities and organisational capacity enhanced There are currently no competitive products on the market to through recruitment: monthly monitoring of performance the Specialty Pharmaceuticals products CroFab, DigiFab against goals: monitoring of regulatory landscape.
However, future competition is possible in some of external resources such as contract clinical research cases and competing products could materially adversely organisations CROs are being more effectively leveraged impact BTGs financial results.
Instituto Bioclon obtained US alongside active development of R&D, regulatory strategies approval for a competitor product to CroFab in May 2015. and delivery plans.
During the year we settled a legal action which we had initiated against Instituto Bioclon and as a result, notwithstanding Change in 2014 15: The R&D and Innovation groups USapproval of their product, it is unlikely they can commercially have beenrestructured following the appointment of enter the US market until October 2018 at the earliest.
Dr Melanie Lee as Chief Scientific Officer.
In addition a portfolio review board has been established to oversee Within Interventional Medicine, the Beads products theexecution of the Groups R&Dstrategy.
The acquisition competewith products from Merit Medical Limited and ofPneumRx has further increased the number of studies CeloNova Biosciences, Inc. : TheraSphere competes globally being undertaken by the Group and its reliance on the with a product from Sirtex Medical Limited: Varithena successful execution andoutcome of clinical studies competes with other treatment modalities including heat toachieve its 2021 financial targets.
ablation, vein stripping and physician-compounded sclerosing foam: EKOS competes with other interventional clot treatment 3.
Sales compliance, reimbursement products from US companies like Boston Scientific and regulatory affairs Corporation.
In Licensing, Zytiga abiraterone acetate Impact: Changes in the regulatory environment could competes with a number of recently approved treatments for materiallyadversely impact the Groups ability to commercialise advanced prostate cancer including Xtandi enzalutamide.
or sell existing or new products in one or more geographies Mitigation: BTG focuses on select opportunities addressing whether due to an inability to obtain or the loss of marketing specialist segments where there are high barriers to entry, approvals or narrowing or withdrawal of existing approvals.
forexample, relating to the development and manufacturing The regulations and laws to which the Group is subject are processes, or the need to generate significant supportive complex, leading to an inherent degree of uncertainty and clinical data to gain approval and commercial acceptance.
New legislation, changes in existing legislation and or Weseek to differentiate our products by demonstrating, regulatory guidance or enforcement policies or practice in clinical trials, safety and efficacy benefits, or greater mayresult in delays or failures in bringing products to market, patientacceptance.
additional material costs or the imposition of restrictions on approval or the sale of a product or its manufacture, Change in 2014 15: We commenced a controlled launch distribution or reimbursement, including the possible ofVarithena in the US reimbursed sector, following which withdrawal of a product from the market or narrowing of its another non-tumescent product has been cleared for use TM approval or indicated uses.
Any of these actions could have a inthe treatment of varicose veins in the US VenaSeal.
material adverse effect on the business or prospects of the Wecommenced direct sales of our TheraSphere and Beads Group.
This is particularly the case for drug-eluting beads products in certain EU countries: previous US and EU BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35 Strategic Report which are deemed by some regulatory authorities as already approved and sold.
The Regulatory Affairs group work combination products comprising a drug and a device, closely with the wider R&D teamto co-ordinate activities and inrespect of which the regulatory requirements may be maximise the chances of success.
The Company also has a Healthcare Compliance team which establishes robust processes and a framework intended to The pharmaceutical and device industries are highly regulated provide assurance that applicable sales compliance and, in addition to the broad range of regulations relating to the development, approval and manufacturing of itsproducts, the requirements are met.
However, as with other areas of risk Group must comply with many regulations relating to the management, no assurance can be provided regarding the marketing of its products.
ability of those systems to totally mitigate compliance risk.
As a consequence, ongoing monitoring and auditing is The regulations and laws, particularly in the US, are complex undertaken to seek to ensure any material failures are and often strictly enforced by governmental and regulatory identified where possible and remediated.
Defending actual or alleged violations may require significant management time and financial commitment, even The Company has also strengthened its market access if not proven.
The incidence of these investigations has risen reimbursement group over the year with a focus on Varithena in the US in recent years.
Failure by BTG or its commercial to support the commercial launch in the US.
partners where BTG has aliability to comply with certain rules, Changes in 2014 15: The launch of Varithena in the US in laws and regulations, including the US False Claims Act, 2014highlighted the work necessary to establish appropriate Anti-Kickback Statute and the US Foreign and Corrupt reimbursement of new products.
Progress on that will continue Practices Act among others, for alleged improper conduct, to be a focus and a critical success factor for that product.
including corrupt payments to medical professionals, In July 2014, BTG announced that it had received a inaccurate regulatory submissions, off-label marketing of subpoenafrom the US Department of Justice, seeking products, or the submission of false claims for reimbursement documents in relation to an investigation regarding LCBead, to the Federal government may result in criminal and civil covering the period since 2003.
BTG continues to cooperate proceedings against the Group.
Resultant financial and other fully with this investigation and at this time is unable to predict potential sanctions against the Group or their commercial its duration or outcome.
PneumRx marketing and other partners or their respective employees or directors could activities have been incorporated into BTGs global materially adversely affect their business, financial position complianceprogramme.
and prospects of the Group, in the loss of product licences or Discussions with the UK MHRA and BSi continue with respect exclusion from sale of certainproducts.
to the reclassification of the DC Bead product in the EU which, Furthermore, the Group may be subject to price limits on if not resolved, could reduce the scope of the indicated uses of reimbursement of products which are outside of its control, the product, adversely impacting the Group.
reducing product reimbursement or sales prices, which may have a negative impact on Group revenues.
Intellectual property, know-how, trade secrets the case in the US where a significant proportion of the Groups Impact: BTG may be subject to challenges relating to revenues are derived, and in light of the ongoing US healthcare thevalidity of its patents or alleging infringement by BTG reform, requiring increased rebates or discounts to be provided ofintellectual property rights of others, which might result where products are reimbursed or paid for by public payments, incessation of product sales, litigation and or settlement including Medicaid and Medicare.
Reimbursement and costs and or loss of earnings.
BTG might elect to sue third healthcare payment systems vary significantly by country and parties for their infringement of its patents or other intellectual there can be no assurance that reimbursement approvals will property IP rights in order to protect current or future product be received or sustained.
There can be no assurance that a revenue streams.
Litigation involves significant costs and product, even if approved, will obtain adequate levels of uncertainties.
Failure by BTG to maintain or renew key patents reimbursement to support commercial success.
This is the might lead to loss of earnings and liabilities to licensees or case for Varithena as a new product class in the varicose vein licensors.
BTG may not be able to secure or maintain the treatment sector.
The Company has a reimbursement strategy necessary intellectual property rights in relation to products and team supporting the commercial launch of Varithena but acquired or in development, limiting thepotential to generate ultimately there can be no assurance sufficient reimbursement value from these products andinvestments.
will be universally adopted to support the full potential of the Changes in patent laws and other intellectual property product in the US or elsewhere.
regulations in territories where BTG or its licensees conduct Mitigation: The Company has expert internal teams business that make it more difficult or time-consuming to dedicated to each of these areas including: a Regulatory Affairs obtain or enforce patents, or which reduce the available term group which was strengthened and restructured during the of granted patents or periods of market exclusivity protection, year.
That group works with a network of external advisors in could adversely impact the Groups financial performance.
relevant territories to ensure the appropriate regulations are Patent expiries can adversely impact the Groups revenues.
understood and that regulatory strategies are in place and that Currently, BTG earns significant royalties from sales of actions are taken in a timely fashion to meet requirements to Johnson & Johnsons Zytiga abiraterone acetate, which effectively support both products in development and those maybe subject to generic competition in the US from our BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk management and principal risks continued 36 Strategic Report 2016 17 financial year when the US composition of matter actions.
BTGs polyclonal antibody products rely onserum patent expires, and in the EU from our 2020 21 financial year produced from our sheep flocks in Australia, whichcould be when the ten-year data post-approval exclusivity period ends.
subject to disease outbreaks or fire.
BTG manufactures its EKOS products at asingle site in Seattle, Washington, USA, BTGs patent portfolio is currently subject to several challenges.
and its RePneu Coil ata single site in Mountain View, Enforcement of third-party patents against BTG may California, USA, with the consequent possibilities for preventBTG selling products or require BTG to pay royalties disruption to or loss of supply.
orother compensation to the patent holder.
The landscape is generally more complex in the Interventional Medicine market Mitigation: Dual sourcing is being investigated: inventories are place rendering IP managementmore challenging.
being monitored: production changes implemented to ensure continued product supply: rigorous quality control procedures BTG may rely upon know-how and trade secrets to protect in place: regular checks made on sheep flock health: disaster itsproducts and maintain a competitive advantage.
BTG may recovery plans under regular review.
In accordance with the have to sue third parties to protect its know-how and trade risk rating the Company will continue to focus on this area to secrets.
Trade secrets may be inadvertently disclosed leading ensure market demand for products can continue to be met to loss of competitive advantage and loss of earnings.
as has historically been the case.
Mitigation: Dedicated internal resource, supplemented by Changes in 2014 15: The acquisition of PneumRx and the external expertise, monitors third-party patent portfolios launch of Varithena has increased BTGs reliance on single andpatent applications and intellectual property rights: manufacturing sites.
development and implementation of BTG patent filing, defence and enforcement strategies: robust processes 7.
Quality and regulatory process documentation areinplace to automate patent renewals: internal controls Impact: Our quality systems and regulatory processes established to avoid disclosure of patentable material prior anddocumentation including those relating to Good tofiling patent applications and to protect know-how.
Manufacturing Practice and Good Clinical Practice are Change in 2014 15: IP management has been made more regularly audited by regulators such as the US FDA.
Any complex by the acquisition of PneumRx.
BTG settled its inadequacies identified can result in observations, major patentlitigation against a potential competitor to CroFab.
findings and or warnings, which would need to be addressed Thecommercial launch of Varithena may lead to further through remedial actions but if not addressed adequately, IPchallenges or competition requiring the Group to could lead to regulatory action such as cessation of product initiatelitigation.
The innovation and development of new development, public censure, product recalls, an inability products may result in IP challenges by third parties.
to release manufactured product, loss of manufacturing orproduct licences or forced temporary or permanent 5.
External supply chain shutdownof facilities and the consequential disruption Impact: We rely on third-party contractors for the supply toproduct supply.
ofmany key materials and services.
These processes Mitigation: We have invested in upgrading our processes, inherently carry risks of failure and loss of product and are capabilities and people capacity to ensure appropriate risks over which the Company has a lower degree of control.
resources are available to support all required control Problems at contractors facilities, such as technical issues, measures.
A Global Quality System has been established contamination and regulatory actions may lead to delays andimplementation across the Group is nearing completion.
anddisruptions or loss of supply or available capacity.
Some materials and services may only be available from one source Change in 2014 15: PneumRx was acquired during theyear and regulatory requirements may make substitution costly, and continuing improvements are being made to the time-consuming or commercially unviable.
applicable quality systems to bring them into full conformation with the Companys Global Quality Mitigation: Rigorous monitoring of suppliers: maintenance Pharmacovigilance and other systems, which will be fully ofadequate product and component inventories: dual implemented during the 2015 16 year.
sourcing implemented or being investigated where practicable.
In accordance with the risk rating the Company The strategic report was approved by the Board on will continue to focus on this area to ensure market demand 18 May 2015. for products can continue to be met as has historically By order of the Board beenthe case.
Change in 2014 15: The launch of Varithena results in increased reliance on third parties for key components.
Dr Paul Mussenden Company Secretary 6.
Internal supply chain Impact: BTG relies on its single site in Wales for supply ofmanufactured antibodies and a single site in Farnham, UK, forthe manufacture of the Beads and Varithena with the consequent possibilities for disruption to, or loss of supplies resulting from, technical issues, contamination or regulatory BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance 37 The Board of Directors Governance and our approach to corporate governance and remuneration.
Board of Directors 38 Corporate governance report 40 Audit Committee report 50 Nomination Committee report 54 Directors remuneration report 56 Directors report 76 Statement of directors responsibilities 78
