Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Business environment Principal Group risk factors Overview The principal risk factors that may affect the Group are set out on the following pages.
Each risk is considered in the context of the Groups strategy, as set out in this Strategic Report on pages 8 and 9.
Following a description of each risk, its causes and potential impact on the Group are summarised.
We also explain the activities we are undertaking to mitigate each risk.
The Group has identified, actively monitors In addition, the Board has considered Cautionary statement and is taking action to mitigate many different the foreign exchange rate exposure risk.
The Strategic Report and certain other risks.
This section does not include them all, An assessment of the current exposure to sections of this Annual Report contain but focuses on those risks that the Directors transactional foreign exchange rate risk has forward-looking statements that are believe to be the most important after resulted in an increase to the risk rating.
subject to risk factors associated with, assessment of the likelihood and potential A solvency and liquidity risk has also been among other things, the economic and impact on the business.
Not all of these risks disclosed as its assessment underpins our business circumstances occurring from are within the control of the Group and Viability Statement on page 38, although the time to time in the countries and markets other factors besides those listed may affect mitigation plans reduce the likelihood of the in which the Group operates.
It is believed the Groups performance.
Some risks may risk occurring.
that the expectations reflected in these be unknown at present.
Others, currently statements are reasonable but they may regarded as immaterial, could become With regard to the Groups revised operating be affected by a wide range of variables material risks in the future.
model and single IT operating system, that could cause actual results to differ another key risk factor reported in 2014, in The risk factors listed in this section and materially from those currently anticipated.
view of the good progress on deployment, the activities being undertaken to mitigate the Board considers that a combined risk, them should be considered in the context focusing on sustainability and benefits of the Groups internal control framework.
realisation, describes more accurately the This is described in the section on risk context of the current risk.
As such, the risks management and internal control in the have been merged into a new combined risk, corporate governance statement on page 61. which is the failure to achieve sustainability of This section should also be read in the the operating model and its benefits.
This is context of the cautionary statement set out not considered to be a principal risk and as on the right.
aresult it is not reported again this year.
Assessment of Group risk The risk of failure to lead the development of During the year, the Directors have carried the Next Generation Products category has out a robust assessment of the principal risks also been removed from the principal risk and uncertainties facing the Group, including factors as progress has been made in several those that would threaten its business model, areas which mitigates the risk.
future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Details of the principal risks are set out in the The principal risks facing the Group have following tables.
remained broadly unchanged over the past year, particularly with regard to the principal risks included in Marketplace, Excise and tax, Operations, Regulation and Litigation risk factors.
The Board has considered the risks associated with the inability to recruit required talent and the loss of existing talent.
The impact of the risk has increased to reflect the challenge posed by negative perceptions of the sustainability and corporate reputation of a tobacco business and is now listed as aprincipal risk facing the business.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 37 Increased No change Decreased Sustainability Winning Organisation Productivity Growth Long term Medium term Short term Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Business environment Principal Group risk factors continued Principal risks at a glance Link to Movement in year Description Time frame Strategy Risk Competition from illicittrade 01 Market size reduction and consumer down-trading 02 Inability to obtain price increases and impact of 03 increases on consumer affordability Significant excise increases or structure changes 04 Disputed taxes, interest and penalties 05 Foreign exchange rate exposures 06 Solvency and liquidity 07 Geopolitical tensions 08 Injury, illness or death in the workplace 09 Tobacco regulation inhibits growth strategy 10 Litigation 11 Inability to recruit or retaintalent 12 Viability Statement The Directors have assessed, in accordance with the requirements of the 2014 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the viability of the Group.
The Directors have considered a number of factors that affect the resilience of the Group, including the principal risks as described on pages 3944 which are reviewed, with the mitigating actions, at least once a year.
The Directors also took account of the Groups operational and financial processes, which cover both short-term 1-2 year financial forecasts, 2-3 year capacity plans and longerterm strategic planning.
This includes a sensitivity analysis regarding core drivers to ensure the business is able to continue in operation and can continue to meet the liabilities as they fall due.
The Group operates in a unique environment, being subject to inherent uncertainties with regards to regulatory change and litigation, the outcome of which may have a bearing on the Groups viability.
The Group maintains, as referred to in note 30 Contingent Liabilities and Financial Commitments, that, whilst it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular case, the defences of the Groups companies to all the various claims are meritorious on both law and the facts.
If an adverse judgment is entered against any of the Groups companies in any case, appeals will usually be made, the duration of which can be reasonably expected to last for a number of years.
The Directors have no reason to believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period.
However, given the inherent uncertainty involved regarding litigation and regulation, the period over which the Directors consider it possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Groups longer term viability, based on the stress testing and scenario planning discussed above, is three years.
38 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Marketplace risk factors Competition from illicit trade Time frame Definition Illicit trade in the form of counterfeit products, smuggled genuine products and locally manufactured products on which Long term applicable taxes are evaded represents a significant and growing threat to the legitimate tobacco industry.
Most illicit Strategic impact products are sold at the bottom end of the market and in contravention of applicable regulatory requirements.
Excise increases can encourage more consumers to switch to cheaper illegal tobacco products, providing greater rewards for smugglers.
The risk is exacerbated where current economic conditions have resulted in high unemployment and or Growth organic reduced disposable incomes.
revenue growth Global volume of illicit trade is estimated to be up to 12% of consumption.
In the next decade, we believe that the problem is likely to increase, driven by the increased regulatory and compliance burden for legitimate manufacturers Risk owner andfurther significant excise increases.
Director, Legal and External Affairs Principal causes Mitigation activities Unexpected and significant excise increases and Dedicated Anti-Illicit Trade AIT teams operating widening excise differentials between markets.
at global and country levels and internal crossfunctional coordination.
Unintended consequences of regulation, e. g. plain packaging, graphic warnings, display Active engagement with key external stakeholders.
Cross-industry and multi-sector cooperation on a range Extra compliance costs imposed on the legitimate of AIT issues.
industry giving a competitive advantage to Global AIT strategy supported by a research programme illicit manufacturers.
to further the understanding of the size and scope of Economic downturn.
Lack of law enforcement and weak border controls.
AIT Engagement Team including a dedicated analytical laboratory works with enforcement agencies in pursuit Potential impact ofpriority targets.
Erosion of brand value, with lower volumes and reduced profits.
Reduced ability to take price increases.
Investment in trade marketing and distribution is undermined.
Market size reduction and consumer down-trading Time frame Definition As a consequence of steep excise-led price increases and the continuing difficult economic and regulatory environment in Short Medium term many countries, market contraction and consumer down-trading are expected to remain principal risks facing the Group.
Strategic impact A number of instances of market contraction have arisen, particularly in Europe, Australia, Brazil and Russia.
Principal causes Mitigation activities Growth organic Downturn in the economic climate impacting Geographic spread mitigates impact at Group level.
Quarterly brand reviews are presented to the Changes in the regulatory environment.
Global Marketing Leadership Team as well as to the Risk owner Management Board.
Regional Directors Economic outlook embedded into quarterly performance Targeted growth of low-priced brands through reviews in markets.
Key market reviews at Management Board meetings.
Potential impact Close monitoring of sales volume by segment to detect Volume decline and portfolio mix erosion.
changes in consumer purchasing patterns in markets.
Funds to invest in growth opportunities are reduced.
Clear portfolio and pricing strategies, ensuring balanced portfolio of strong brands across key segments.
Increased focus behind product quality and innovation across all segments to provide tangible differentiation andimprove the price-value ratio.
Overlap with many mitigation activities undertaken for other principal risks facing the Group, such as competition from illicit tobacco trade, significant excise increases or structure changes and inability to obtain price increases.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 39 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Business environment Principal Group risk factors continued Marketplace risk factors continued Inability to obtain price increases and impact of increases on consumer affordability Time frame Definition Annual manufacturers price increases are among the key drivers in increasing market profitability.
The Group faces Short Medium term a risk that such price increases will not materialise.
Strategic impact Principal causes Mitigation activities Increased regulation reduces the ability to build Key market and pricing reviews at Management Growth organic brand equity and enhance the value proposition to Board meetings.
Pricing, excise and trade margin committees exist in all Stretched consumer affordability arising from markets with regional and global support.
Risk owner deteriorating economic conditions and rising prices.
Robust business cases underpinning key Regional Directors Sharp increase or change in excise structure reduces innovative launches.
Clear portfolio and pricing strategies, ensuring a balanced Competitor pricing activities.
portfolio of strong brands across key segments.
Potential impact Inability to achieve strategic growth metrics.
Volumes may reduce faster than anticipated due to accelerated market decline.
Down-trading and growth of illicit trade.
Excise and tax risk factors Significant excise increases or structure changes Time frame Definition Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise and sales taxes in most countries in which the Group operates.
In many Long term of these countries, taxes are generally increasing, but the rate of increase varies country by country and between different Strategic impact types of tobacco products.
A number of significant excise increases have taken place over the past three years, for example in Australia, Russia, Brazil, South Korea, Turkey, Ukraine and the Philippines.
To date, the Group has been able to balance these increases with its Growth organic geographic spread and continues to develop effective measures to address the risk.
revenue growth Principal causes Mitigation activities Risk owner Fiscal pressures for higher government revenues.
Requirement for Group companies to have in Regional Directors place formal pricing and excise strategies including Increases advocated within the context of national contingency plans, with annual risk assessments.
Pricing, excise and trade margin committees in markets, Insufficient opportunity to engage with stakeholders with regional and global support.
Engagement with local tax and customs authorities, Potential impact where appropriate, in particular in relation to the Consumers reject the Groups legitimate tax-paid increased risk to excise revenues from higher illicit trade.
products for products from illicit sources or Portfolio reviews to ensure appropriate balance and cheaper alternatives.
Monitoring of economic indicators, government revenues Reduced sales volume and or portfolio erosion.
Some absorption of excise increases.
Central team in place to define the excise management framework, develop training materials, monitor and engage with international financial institutions on excise and anti-illicit trade matters.
40 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Excise and tax risk factors continued Disputed taxes, interest and penalties Time frame Definition The Group may face significant financial penalties, including the payment of interest, in the event of an unfavourable Short Medium term ruling by a tax authority in a disputed area.
Strategic impact Principal causes Mitigation activities Unfavourable ruling by tax authorities in disputed areas End-market tax committees.
Productivity capital and aggressive auditing and or pursuit of tax claims.
Internal tax function provides dedicated advice and effectiveness Potential impact guidance, and external advice sought where needed.
Engagement with tax authorities at Group, regional Risk owner Significant fines and potential legal penalties.
Disruption and loss of focus on the business due Finance Director todiversion of management time.
Impact on profit and dividend.
Finance risk factors Foreign exchange rate exposures Time frame Definition The Group faces transactional and translational foreign exchange FX rate exposures for earnings cash flows from its Short Medium term global business.
During periods of sterling strength and FX rate volatility, as seen in 2015, the adverse impact on the Strategic impact Groups results can be significant.
Principal causes Mitigation activities Productivity capital FX rate exposures arise from exchange rate movement While translational FX exposure is not hedged, its effectiveness against the functional currency and against sterling, the impact is identified in results presentations and financial Groups reporting currency.
disclosures: earnings are re-stated at constant rates Risk owner for comparability.
Potential impact Finance Director Debt and interest are matched to assets and cash flows to Fluctuations in FX rates of key currencies against sterling mitigate volatility where possible and economic to do so.
introduce volatility in reported EPS, cash flow and the Hedging strategy for transactional FX and framework is balance sheet driven by translation into sterling of our financial results.
defined in the treasury policy, a Global policy approved by the Board.
The dividend may be impacted if the payout ratio is Illiquid currencies of many markets where hedging not adjusted.
iseither not possible or uneconomic are reviewed on Differences in translation between earnings and net debt aregular basis.
may affect key ratios used by credit rating agencies.
The Treasury system provides visibility of FX exposures Volatility and or increased costs in our business, and the hedge portfolio.
due to transactional FX, may adversely impact financial performance.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 41 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Business environment Principal Group risk factors continued Finance risk factors continued Solvency and liquidity Time frame Definition Liquidity access to cash and sources of finance is essential to maintaining the Group as a going concern in the Short Medium term short term liquidity and medium term solvency.
Strategic impact Principal causes Mitigation activities The external environment foreign exchange and interest Group policies include a set of financing principles and Productivity capital rates and the availability of financing and business key performance indicators including the monitoring of effectiveness conditions are subject to variability which may lead to credit ratings, interest cover, solvency and liquidity with stress in the capital structure, liquidity and solvency of regular reporting to the Board.
The Group targets an average centrally managed debt Finance Director maturity of at least five years with no more than 20% of Potential impact centrally managed debt maturing in a single rolling year.
Inability to fund the business under our current capital The Group, through B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. structure resulting in missed strategic opportunities holds a central banking facility of 3 billion with a final orinability to respond to threats.
maturity of May 2020 an additional one-year extension Decline in our creditworthiness and increased funding is available at the option of the banks spread across costs for the Group.
Requirement to issue equity or seek new sources Liquidity pooling structures are in place to ensure that of capital.
there is maximum mobilisation of cash liquidity within Reputational risk of failure to manage the financial the Group.
risk profile of the business, resulting in an erosion of The Group has an externally imposed capital requirement shareholder value reflected in an underperforming for its centrally managed banking facilities of maintaining share price.
gross interest cover above 4.5 times.
The Group targets agross interest cover of greater than 5.
Going concern and viability support papers are presented to the Board on a regular basis.
Operations risk factors Geopolitical tensions Time frame Definition Geopolitical tensions, social unrest, terrorism and organised crime have the potential to disrupt the Groups business Long term inmultiple markets.
Strategic impact Principal causes Mitigation activities Regional and or global conflicts.
Globally integrated sourcing strategy and contingency Growth organic sourcing arrangements.
revenue growth Security risk modelling, including external risk Criminal activity leading to attacks on our people, assessments and the monitoring of geopolitical and supplychain or other assets.
Risk owner economic policy developments worldwide.
Economic policy changes, including nationalisation Director, Legal and Insurance cover and business continuity planning, of assets and withdrawal from international External Affairs including scenario planning and testing and risk trade agreements.
Potential impact Security controls for field force, direct store sales and Potential loss of life, loss of assets and disruption to supply chain with an emphasis on the protection normal business processes.
Increased costs due to more complex supply chain arrangements and or the cost of building new facilities ormaintaining inefficient facilities.
Reputational impact of inability to protect staff and assets from serious harm.
42 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Operations risk factors continued Injury, illness or death in the workplace Time frame Definition The Group is committed to operating responsibly by maintaining the necessary controls that safeguard the health, safety Long term and welfare of the people who work for the Group, as well as minimising the impact on the natural environment and the Strategic impact local communities in which the Group conducts business activities.
The risk of injury, death or ill health to employees and those who work with the business is a fundamental concern of the Group and can have asignificant effect on its operations.
Principal causes Mitigation activities Sustainability Failure to assess risk and implement appropriate Risk control systems in place to ensure equipment Risk owner control measures.
andinfrastructure are provided and maintained.
Director, Failure to monitor, assess and implement the An EHS strategy ensures that employees at all levels Operations requirements of regulations that apply to Group sites receive appropriate EHS training and information.
and operations resulting in non-compliance with Behavioural-based safety programme to drive Operations environment, health and safety EHS standards.
safety performance and culture closer to zero accidents.
Insufficient information, instruction and training on Analysis of incidents undertaken regionally and globally health and safety at work.
to identify increasing incident trends or high potential risks that require coordinated action to address.
Potential impact Focused programmes within Marketing to Serious injuries, ill health, disability or loss of life suffered address specific risks associated with sales and by employees and the people who work with the Group.
Exposure to civil and criminal liability and the risk of prosecution from enforcement bodies and the cost Dedicated global team to support management ofEHS risks.
ofassociated fines and or penalties.
Key issues and incidents monitored regionally and Interruption of Group operations if issues are not reported globally to oversee compliance.
High staff turnover or difficulty recruiting employees ifperceived to have a poor EHS record.
Regulation risk factors Tobacco regulation inhibits growth strategy Time frame Definition The enactment of unreasonable regulation that prohibits the Groups ability to communicate with consumers, Long term differentiate our products and launch future products.
This increases business costs and complexity.
Strategic impact Principal causes Potential impact continued Pressure from some international health organisations, Increased scope and severity of compliance regimes Growth organic governments and the tobacco control community to in new regulation leading to higher costs, greater revenue growth pursue regulation and policy that: is not evidence-based: complexity and potential reputational damage or fines and Sustainability is designed to eradicate tobacco and nicotine use: forinadvertent breach.
excludes the industry from the manufacture and sale of balanced Mitigation activities Next Generation Products or regulates them in a way regulation Engagement and litigation strategy coordinated and that fails to incentivise their commercialisation: and fails aligned across the Group to drive a balanced global policy Risk owner to deliver legitimate public health objectives.
Director, Legal and Potential impact Prioritisation of key current and emerging External Affairs Erosion of brand value through commoditisation, the regulatory issues.
inability to launch innovations, differentiate products, Stakeholder mapping and prioritisation, developing robust maintain or build brand equity and leverage price.
compelling advocacy materials with supporting evidence Adverse impact on ability to compete within the legitimate and data and regulatory engagement programmes.
tobacco industry and also with increased illicit trade.
Regulatory risk assessment of marketing plans to ensure Reduced consumer acceptability of new product decisions are informed by an understanding of the specifications, leading to consumers seeking alternatives potential regulatory environments.
Advocating the application of our integrated regulatory Shocks to share price on enactment of unduly onerous proposals to governments and public health practitioners and restrictive regulation.
based on the harm reduction principles.
Reduced ability to compete in future product categories Development of an integrated regulatory strategy and make new market entries.
thatspans conventional combustibles and includes Constriction of the retail universe and limitations on Next Generation Products.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 43 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Business environment Principal Group risk factors continued Litigation risk factors Litigation Time frame Definition Product liability, regulatory or other significant cases may be lost or compromised resulting in a material loss or other Long term consequence.
Legal costs may increase significantly.
Strategic impact Principal causes Mitigation activities Case lost by either a non-Group or Group company may Consistent litigation strategy across the Group.
Growth revenue set a precedent for the filing of future claims against Expertise and legal talent maintained both within the impact the Group.
Group and with our external partners.
Cases are brought on the basis of the reversal of the Closer integration in Group litigation strategy and cost Risk owner burden of proof which places the Group, as a defendant, controls pursued.
Director, Legal and at a disadvantage e. g. health care recoupment cases.
External Affairs Aggressive court timeline or approach that undermines defence preparation.
Potential impact Damages and fines, negative impact on reputation, disruption and loss of focus on the business.
Consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be materially affected, in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year, by an unfavourable outcome or settlement of pending or future litigation.
People risk factors Inability to recruit or retain talent Time frame Definition The Group faces a risk of an inability to attract and retain the right people who have the ability and personal leadership Long term todrive and deliver competitive advantage and superior performance.
Strategic impact Principal causes Mitigation activities Negative perception of the sustainability and corporate Group employee communication campaign The BAT Growth revenue reputation of a tobacco company.
Way and leadership team interaction to strengthen impact and employee engagement.
Perceived uncompetitive remuneration packages Winning compared to the marketplace.
Employee engagement Your Voice analysis and global Organisation exit interviews to understand employee satisfaction and Potential impact drive targeted action.
Risk owner Undesirable voluntary turnover reducing organisational Elevating our employer brand and communication performance and productivity.
Director, Group digitally through targeted social media channels.
Human Resources Critical positions left vacant unbalances skills and Active talent agenda and talent management globally, capabilities and reduces sustainable leadership to drive providing succession planning and stretch development the Group strategy.
opportunities to enhance the quality of our people and the strength of our talent pipelines.
Investment in our leadership development portfolio to challenge and inspire, enabling career development.
Benchmarking of reward in line with a global FMCG comparator group.
Ben Stevens Finance Director 44 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015
