Strategic report | Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties Bunzl has an extensive risk management framework designed to identify and assess the likelihood of risks arising, and the consequences of them doing so, and subsequently to manage the actions necessary in order to mitigate their impact to acceptable levels.
It also identifies the assurance activities relating to the relevant mitigating actions.
Using this framework, every business Risk overview The risk profile documents their key risks in a consistent The effective identification, management and The Group operates in many business reporting format which specifically identifies mitigation of risks and uncertainties across environments and across a number of the mitigating activities, relevant controls the Group are an integral part of successfully geographies in which risks and uncertainties and related assurance activities for each delivering the Groups strategic objectives.
exist, not all of which are necessarily within significant risk.
Management then The Risk management and internal control the Companys control.
The risks identified consolidates the risk information at both a section of the Corporate governance report in the 2014 Annual Report remain those of business area and Group level using the on pages 53 and 54 includes further most concern to the business at the end same reporting format, culminating in the information on the specific procedures of 2015.
In addition, this year the Company Group risk assessment.
The Executive designed to identify, manage and mitigate has determined that there is an additional Committee then reviews the Group risk business risk which could have a material financial risk relating to taxation, details assessment, the relevant controls and other impact on the Groups business, financial of which are set out on page 38. steps taken to mitigate the risks identified condition or results of operations.
and the assurance procedures in place over In accordance with the provisions of the such controls with a view to determining any The Companys risk management framework Corporate Governance Code, the directors further actions required in order to reduce provides a consistent methodology by which have taken account of the Groups principal the levels of risk to acceptable levels.
The every business and business area, the risks in assessing the prospects of the risk assessment is then submitted for review Executive Committee and ultimately the Company when considering whether there is and approval by the Board.
The Audit Board assess the risks that the Group faces a reasonable expectation that the Company Committee also reviews the process for the against a defined set of probability and will be able to continue operations and meet management of risk and the assurance impact criteria.
In assessing impact, its liabilities as they fall due over the period procedures over controls designed to the following criteria are considered: of their assessment.
The principal risks and manage key risks.
Accordingly, the directors business continuity: health, safety and the uncertainties faced by the Group and the confirm that they have carried out a robust environment: regulatory: reputational: and steps taken to mitigate such risks and assessment of the principal risks facing the financial.
The probability and impact of each uncertainties are summarised below.
Group, including those that would threaten risk is assessed on two bases.
The first, The risks identified do not comprise all its business model, future performance, defined as Gross Risk, is the probability and of the risks that the Group may face and solvency or liquidity.
impact of a risk if none of the mitigating accordingly this summary is not intended to actions or internal controls designed to be exhaustive and is not presented in order reduce either the probability or the impact of potential probability or impact.
of a risk occurring were in place.
The second, defined as Net Risk, is the residual probability and impact of a risk assuming that the mitigating actions and internal controls operated as intended in an effective way.
36 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Principal risks and uncertainties Market risks Risk Description Mitigating factors The Group operates in highly competitive markets and faces The Group seeks to remain competitive by maintaining Competitive competition from international companies as well as national, high service levels and close contacts with its customers pressures regional and local companies in the countries in which it to ensure that their needs and demands are being met operates.
Increased competition and unanticipated actions by satisfactorily, developing a national presence in the competitors or customers could lead to an adverse effect on markets in which the Group operates and maintaining results and hinder the Groups growth potential.
This could strong relationships with a variety of different suppliers, result from: customer pressure on sales volumes or margins: thereby enabling the Group to offer a broad range of the loss of customers due to service or pricing issues: increased products to its customers, including own brand products.
price competition: customers and suppliers dealing directly The Group also regularly reviews the competitive with one another: or unforeseen changes in the competitive environment in which it operates.
landscape due to the introduction of disruptive technologies or changes in routes to market.
The purchase price of products distributed by the Group can The Group endeavours, whenever possible, to pass on price Product price fluctuate from time to time, thereby potentially affecting the increases from its suppliers to its customers and to source changes results of operations.
There could be significant increases in its products from a number of different suppliers so that it is the cost of specific products leading to a diminution in margins not dependent on any one source of supply for any particular if cost increases cannot be passed on in full to customers or product.
Increased focus on the Groups own import substitute products sourced from elsewhere.
Potential causes programmes and brands, together with the reinforcement of could include changes in the input costs of products purchased the Groups service and product offering to customers, helps through commodity price inflation.
In addition, a period of to minimise the impact of price deflation.
The Group also commodity price deflation may lead to reductions in the price mitigates against the risk of holding overvalued inventory and value of the Groups products where sales prices are indexed in a deflationary environment by managing stock levels or if competitors reduced their selling prices.
If this was to efficiently and ensuring they are kept to a minimum.
occur, the Groups revenue and, as a result, its profits, could The Group uses its considerable experience in sourcing and be reduced and the value of inventory held in stock may not selling products to manage prices during periods of both be fully recoverable.
inflation and deflation in order to minimise the impact on operating margins.
The Groups business is partially dependent on general economic The Groups operations and its customer base are diverse, Economic conditions in the US, the UK, France and other important with a variable and flexible cost base, and many of the sectors environment markets.
A significant deterioration in these conditions could in which it competes are traditionally, by their nature, have an adverse effect on the Groups business and results relatively resilient to economic downturns.
Financial risks Risk Description Mitigating factors The majority of the Groups sales are made and income is The Group believes that the benefits of its geographical Foreign earned in US dollars, euros and other foreign currencies.
spread outweigh the associated risks.
exchange The Group does not hedge the impact of exchange rate The majority of the Groups transactions are carried out in movements arising on translation of earnings into sterling at the functional currency of the Groups operations.
As a result, average exchange rates.
As a result, movements in exchange transaction exposures are usually limited and exchange rate rates may have a material translation impact on the Groups fluctuations have minimal effect on the quality of earnings reported results.
unless there is a sudden and significant adverse movement The Group is also subject to transaction exposures where of a foreign currency in which products are purchased which products are purchased in one currency and sold in another.
may lead to a delay in passing on to customers the resulting As a result, movements in exchange rates may also adversely price increases.
The Group undertakes some forward impact both operating margins and the value of the Groups purchasing of foreign currencies for identified exposures net assets.
to reduce the impact of short term volatility.
The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates and related hedging activity is regularly monitored by senior management.
The Groups approach to managing foreign exchange risk is reviewed annually by the Board.
The Group needs continuous access to funding in order to meet The Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different Financial its trading obligations, to support investment in organic growth, sources and continually monitors net debt and forecast cash liquidity and to make acquisitions when appropriate opportunities arise, and flows to ensure that it will be able to meet its financial to pay dividends to shareholders.
There is a risk that the Group obligations as they fall due and that sufficient facilities are in debt covenants may be unable to obtain the necessary funds when required or place to meet the Groups requirements in the short, medium that such funds will only be available on unfavourable terms.
The Groups borrowing facilities include a requirement to comply Compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenants is with certain specified covenants in relation to the level of net monitored on a monthly basis based on the management debt and interest cover.
A breach of these covenants could result accounts.
Sensitivity analyses using various scenarios are from a significant and rapid deterioration in the businesss applied to forecasts to assess their impact on covenants.
performance, foreign exchange rate fluctuations or the failure to manage working capital levels.
Ultimately this could result in a significant proportion of the Groups borrowings becoming repayable immediately.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 37 Strategic report | Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties continued Financial risks continued Risk Description Mitigating factors In an increasingly complex corporate tax environment, it is Oversight of the Groups tax strategy is within the remit of Taxation possible that changes in tax law, including those that might the Board.
The Group seeks to plan and manage its tax affairs arise from the OECDs current Base Erosion and Profit Shifting efficiently but also responsibly with a view to ensuring that project, may lead to higher effective tax rates for many it complies fully with the relevant legal obligations in the international businesses, thereby adversely affecting countries in which the Group operates while endeavouring to the Groups future cash flows.
manage its tax affairs to protect value for the Companys shareholders in line with the Boards broader fiduciary duties.
The Group manages and controls these risks through an internal tax department made up of experienced tax professionals who exercise judgement and seek appropriate advice from specialist professional firms.
At the same time the Group monitors international developments in tax law and practice, adapting its approach where necessary to do so.
Tax risks are assessed by the Audit Committee and are also incorporated within the Group risk assessment reviewed by the Board as part of the formal governance process relating to risk management.
Operational risks Risk Description Mitigating factors A significant portion of the Groups historical growth has been The Groups acquisition strategy is to focus on those Acquisitions achieved through the acquisition of businesses and the Groups businesses which operate in sectors where it has or can growth strategy includes additional acquisitions.
Although the develop competitive advantage and which have good growth Group operates in a number of fragmented markets which opportunities.
The Group continually reviews acquisition provide future acquisition opportunities, there can be no targets and has established processes and procedures with assurance that the Group will be able to make acquisitions in the regard to detailed pre-acquisition due diligence and postfuture.
There is also a risk that not all of the acquisitions made acquisition integration.
will be successful due to the loss of key people or customers The Group endeavours to maximise the performance of an after the acquisition, deterioration in the economic environment acquisition through the recruitment and retention of high of the acquired business or the failure to perform adequate quality and appropriately incentivised management combined pre-acquisition due diligence or appropriately manage the with effective strategic planning, investment in resources and post-acquisition integration of the business.
infrastructure and regular reviews of performance by both In the longer term, if an acquisition consistently underperforms business area and Group management.
compared to its original investment case, there is a risk that this will lead to a permanent impairment in the carrying value of the intangible assets attributed to that acquisition.
The Group would be adversely affected if any of its major The Group seeks to reduce the impact of destruction of, or Business distribution facilities was destroyed or damaged or there was a damage to, facilities through the use of multi-site facilities continuity significant failure of its information systems resulting from with products stocked in more than one location.
The impact either hardware failure or a cybersecurity breach.
of information systems failure is mitigated through regular renewal of hardware, layered security measures and disaster recovery plans which are periodically tested and which would be implemented in the event of any such failure.
The international nature of the Groups operations exposes it to Although the Group does not operate in particularly litigious Laws and potential claims as the Group is subject to a broad range of laws market sectors, it has in place processes to report, manage regulations and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
and mitigate against third party litigation using external advisers where necessary.
In addition the Group faces potential claims from customers in relation to the supply of defective products or breaches of The use of reputable suppliers and internal quality assurance their contractual arrangements.
The sourcing of products and quality control procedures reduces the risks associated from lower cost countries increases the risk of the Group being with defective products.
unable to recover any potential losses relating thereto from the relevant supplier.
The Financial review on pages 32 to 35 and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements include information relating to the Groups risk management policies so far as they relate to financial instruments.
