Strategic Report Performance PRINCIPAL RISKs Effective management of risk is essential to the execution of the Groups strategies, the achievement of sustainable shareholder value, the protection of the brand and ensuring good governance.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining the The risks set out in the table on the following pages nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take represent the principal risks and uncertainties which in achieving its strategic objectives its risk appetite, and mayadversely impact the performance of the Group for ensuring that risks are managed effectively.
The Board andthe execution of its core strategies.
The Groups core has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility strategies are set out on pages 27 to 41.
Other factors for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems could also adversely affect Group performance and so ofinternal control and risk management methodology.
therisks set out should not be considered to be a complete set of allpotential risks and uncertainties.
As part of this review, the Audit Committee considers theprincipal risks facing the Group and the nature and The key steps the Group takes to address these principal extent of these risks.
The Vice President Group Risk risks are described in the table under Mitigation.
It is not Officer facilitates a risk assessment process in each key possible for the Group to implement controls to respond business area and global support function to review the to all the risks it may face, and the steps the Group has significant risks facing Group operations and to record taken to address certain risks including those listed therelevant controls and actions in place to mitigate these.
maynot manage these risks effectively.
The detailed assessments are then consolidated to provide input into the overall Group risk assessment.
See the The principal risks are not listed in order of significance Corporate Governance Report for further details of the and each of the risks should beconsidered independently.
Groups risk management processes and internal controls.
If more than one of the eventscontemplated by the risks setout occur, it ispossible that the combined overall The Board and the executive management team use a impact of such events may be compounded.
combination of different and complementary skills to assess the risks facing the business.
In determining its risk appetite The Group continues to identify as a principal risk that the Board considers a variety of information when reviewing Group revenues are increasingly dependent on consumers the Group operations and in approving key matters reserved from the Asia region with a significant proportion of the for its decision.
This information includes: Groups sales to Asian consumers globally.
Since the last Annual Report, the Asian trading environment is becoming updates provided by senior management on key more uncertain.
In particular, there were disruptions in strategicand operational matters: Hong Kong, a high margin market, resulting in a deceleration discussion and approval by the Board of the Groups in comparable retail sales in Hong Kong in the second half three-year Strategic plan and budget: of the financial year.
information provided for the purposes of deciding whether to approve those significant matters which havebeen reserved for the Board: and Group risk assessments facilitated by the Groups Risk Function and thereports of the external auditors.
56 Strategic Report Performance Risk Business & Core Strategy impact Mitigation The Groups operations depend A failure in these systems or a denial of service A number of controls to maintain the integrity and on IT systems and operational could have a significant impact onthe Groups efficiency of the Groups IT systems are in place, including infrastructure inorder to operations and reputation, and potentially recovery plans which would be implemented in the event trade efficiently.
Increasingly result in the loss of sensitive information.
The ITdisaster recovery plans are tested technology is also being used on a regular basis.
IT security is continually reviewed and Inspire with the Brand to stream major events and updated and third-party IT security specialists areused Optimise Channels to communicate through to regularly test these controls.
Unlock Market Opportunity social media.
Pursue Operational Excellence Sustained economic slowdown.
The Groups performance remains strong: The global reach of the Group helps to mitigate local however, the sustained economic slowdown economic risks.
In addition, the Groups financial reporting has or could : i reduced consumer wealth and review processes are designed to highlight any leading to a reduction in demand: ii impacted change in ongoing sales performance.
Counterparty the financial stability of suppliers and customers credit checks are in place for all key customers and and their ability to secure finance which could suppliers, and flexible payment terms are used to assist disrupt the Groups supply chain or lead to an suppliers as required.
Group Treasury monitors the credit increase in bad debts: and iii impacted the ratings of financial institutions which hold Group deposits financial stability and recovery of banks and to enable the Group to take appropriate action should other financial institutions, all of which could there be a downgrade in their creditratings.
adversely impact sales and profitability.
Optimise Channels Unlock Market Opportunity The Groups revenues are A significant proportion of the Groups sales The global reach of the Group helps to mitigate reliance on increasingly dependent are to Asian consumers globally.
In addition, the Group continues onconsumers from the any change to consumer tastes or the to focus on engaging with the Chinese luxury consumer, Asia region.
economic, regulatory, social and or political both in China and while travelling abroad, including: by environment in Asia could adversely impact optimising product assortments and merchandising: Asian consumers disposable income, and investing indigital and in-store services such as confidence and travel which could impact Mandarin-speaking sales associates across top tourist the Groups revenue and profits.
The Group has commenced its plans for the transition of its global business in Japan Inspire with the Brand following the expiration of its licence with Sanyo Shokai Optimise Channels and Mitsui & Company in 2015.
Unlock Market Opportunity Pursue Operational Excellence Major incidents such as natural A major incident at a key location could Business continuity plans are in place to mitigate catastrophes, global pandemics significantly impact business operations, operational risks, but cannot ensure the uninterrupted or terrorist attacks affecting with the impact clearly varying depending operation of the business, particularly in the short term.
one or more of the Groups key on the location and its nature.
The impact The regional spread of the Groups key distribution hubs locations could significantly of the loss of a distribution hub would also helps to mitigate risk.
There is a Group incident impact its operations.
clearly differ from a global pandemic, management framework in place that addresses the but both would impact revenue and profits.
reporting and management of major incidents, and this is tested each year using third-party specialists in this field.
All Core Strategies Tailored plans have also been produced for a number of high-impact events.
These plans are regularly reviewed and updated.
Volatility in foreign exchange The Group operates on a global basis and earns The Group seeks to hedge anticipated significant external rates could have a significant revenues, incurs costs and makes investments transactional cash flows using financial instruments.
impact on the Groups in a number of currencies.
The Groups financial The Group monitors the desirability of hedging the net reported results.
results are reported in Sterling.
The majority of assets of non-Sterling subsidiaries when translated into reported revenues are earned in non-Sterling Sterling for reporting purposes, but the Group has not currencies, with a significant proportion of entered into any transactions for this purpose in the costs in Sterling.
Therefore the Sterling value current or previous year.
of reported revenues, profits and cash flows may be reduced as a result of currency exchange rate movements.
All Core Strategies 57 Strategic Report Performance Risk Business & Core Strategy impact Mitigation Failure by the Group or A failure to act appropriately could result A number of initiatives are in place, led by the Corporate associated third parties to in penalties, adverse press coverage and Responsibility function.
These include the continuing act in accordance with ethical reputational damage with a resulting drop activities set out in the Burberry Impact section.
Inspire with the Brand The Groups operations are Failure to comply with these requirements The Group continually monitors and seeks to improve its subject to a broad spectrum of could leave the Group open to civil and or processes to gain assurance that its licensees, suppliers, regulatory requirements in the criminal legal challenge, significant penalties franchisees, distributors and agents comply with the various jurisdictions in which and reputational damage.
Groups contractual terms and conditions, its ethical the Group operates.
The pace and business policies and relevant legislation.
Specialist All Core Strategies of change and the consistency teams at corporate and regional level, supported by of application of legislation third-party specialists where required, are responsible for can vary significantly across ensuring employees are aware of regulations relevant to these jurisdictions, particularly their roles.
A number of these teams were strengthened in an environment where public during the year.
Assurance processes are in place to sector debt is often high and monitor compliance in a number of key risk areas, with tax revenues are falling.
results being reported to the Group Risk Committee and Board Audit Committee.
The Group relies on a small number of vendors The Group continues to evolve its supply chain in key product categories, and for specialist organisation design to develop its manufacturing base digital and IT services.
Failure of one of these to reduce dependence on key vendors.
The Group businesses to deliver products or services would has continued to strengthen its internal digital and have a significant impact on business operations.
IT teams and continues to facilitate knowledge transfer to internal resources.
Inspire with the Brand Realise Product Potential Loss of key management or The loss of key individuals or the inability to Competitive incentive arrangements currently exist, the inability to attract and recruit and retain individuals with the relevant with specific initiatives in place designed to retain key retain key employees.
talent and experience would disrupt the individuals.
Recent regulatory changes may make it operation of the business and adversely impact more difficult to remain competitive in the global market the Groups ability to deliver its strategies.
Recruitment is ongoing and talent review and succession planning programmes are in All Core Strategies place and are regularly reviewed and updated.
The Group operates in a number Seizure of assets or staff.
Related party The Group uses the services of professional consultants of emerging markets which business practice that is inconsistent with to advise on legal and regulatory issues when entering are typically more volatile than the Groups ethical standards and the UK new markets, to undertake due diligence and to monitor developed markets, and are regulatory environment.
The Group works with franchisees subject to changing economic, costs due to country-specific processes driven or partners who compensate for its relative lack of regulatory, social and political by the regulatory environment.
experience in a number of these markets.
developments that are Inspire with the Brand beyond the Groups control.
Optimise Channels Infrastructure and services Unlock Market Opportunity also tend to be less developed.
58 Strategic Report Performance Risk Business & Core Strategy impact Mitigation The significant growth and pace Failure to effectively manage the pace of Governance processes are in place for each major of change within the business change will inevitably adversely impact the strategic initiative and these are supplemented by a puts pressure on both internal Groups operations and return on investment.
Group Programme Management Office which provides and external resources.
governance to support the business change agenda.
All Core Strategies Regular meetings with senior management are undertaken to review operational performance.
Management and operational structures are continually reviewed to ensure that these support the Groups growth.
A substantial proportion of The licence with Sanyo Shokai and Mitsui & The Group has made further progress in transforming Group profits is reliant upon Company Sanyo Shokai in Japan the Sanyo its operations in Japan with the introduction of Burberrys its licensed business in Japan Licence expires in 2015, whereupon the global luxury collection in this market, through directly and other key licensed royalty income under the licence will cease.
operated stores and concessions, in department stores product categories.
The Group expects licensees to maintain operational and financial control over their To facilitate the brand transformation in Japan, the businesses.
Should licensees fail to manage Group has agreed an orderly transition with Sanyo Shokai.
their operations effectively or be affected In addition, a new three-year licence with Sanyo Shokai by a major incident, the royalty income may allows them the continued use of the Blue and Black labels decline, directly impacting Group profits.
in Japan in exchange for a licence fee.
These labels do not use the Burberry name.
Inspire with the Brand Pursue Operational Excellence There are minimum royalty payments specified in its licence agreements.
Under its licence agreements, the Group can control product development, marketing and distribution.
Regular licensee royalty reviews take place to monitor compliance with licence terms, which can manage but not eliminate non-compliance.
Unauthorised use of the Trade marks and other intellectual property The Groups global Brand Protection team has Groups trade marks and IP rights are fundamentally important to the continued to expand during the year to enable the other proprietary rights.
Groups reputation, success and competitive Group to strengthen its brand protection efforts in a position.
Unauthorised use of these, as well number of high-risk markets, including in the digital as the distribution of counterfeit products, environment.
Given the Groups emphasis on digital damages the Burberry brand image and profits.
innovation the team places a particular focus on this area.
Where infringements are identified these are Inspire with the Brand addressed through a mixture of criminal and civil legal Realise Product Potential action and negotiated settlement.
IP rights are driven Optimise Channels largely by national laws which afford varying degrees of Unlock Market Opportunity protection and enforcement priorities depending on the country.
Consequently, the Group cannot necessarily be as effective in all jurisdictions in addressing IP issues.
59 Board and Governance 62 Board of Directors 81 Directors Remuneration Report 66 Corporate Governance Report 104 Directors Report
