Principal risks and uncertainties We recognise that there are risks in operating our businesses, influenced by both internal and external factors, some of which are outside our control.
The Group has a risk management framework which our business units and corporate functions utilise to ensure risks are understood and mitigated as appropriate.
We set out a description of the principal risks Principal risks and New risks and uncertainties that could have a material The acquisition of Columbus and integration uncertainties adverse effect on the Group and how they are have introduced new regulatory risks, risks managed.
These risks have the potential to around integration of team members, risks impact our business, its reputation, cash flow, related to integration of business activities, profits and or assets.
However, there may be and other risks around integration costs other risks that are currently unknown or and synergies.
We update the Group risk register on a rolling Risks removed 12-month basis.
Actions to manage and The refresh of our risk register resulted in monitor risks are considered on a quarterly the removal of risks related to business basis by the Groups Executive Team.
change, joint ventures and associates and Our refresh of the Group risk register has investment risk.
resulted in some changes from the risks We previously reported business risk related disclosed last year.
We have summarised to our revised operating model and transition these changes herein.
to the Miami operational hub to better exploit Investors should consider the changes in risk, available opportunities and realise synergies.
the risks reported, and other information At 31 March 2015, the transition to the provided in this Annual Report.
Miami operational hub was complete and the integration between the Group and Columbus was under way.
Our risk related to joint ventures and associates has been removed as a result of the acquisition of Columbus.
Based on conditions attached to the regulatory approval from the Telecommunications Authority of Trinidad and Tobago, we have reclassified our 49% shareholding in TSTT to be held for sale.
Additionally, the joint venture with Columbus a 27.5% economic interest has been unwound as a result of the acquisition.
Finally, we have removed our previously reported investment risk as we have completed the acquisition of Columbus and completed the disposals of Macau, Monaco & Islands sub-group.
Key: Risk trend increasing Risk trend stable Risk trend decreasing 18 Cable & Wireless Communications Trend Risk and impact Strategy impacted Mitigation Acquisition and integration ofColumbus The acquisition of Columbus raises two key risks: Regulatory Risk While completion of the acquisition Make the integration We have worked carefully with local counsel in each was not conditional upon obtaining regulatory approvals a success market to ensure that the applicable laws and licence in jurisdictions outside of Barbados, Jamaica, Trinidad and conditions are complied with Fixed-mobile Tobago and the USA, there are a number of jurisdictions convergence We have consulted with relevant local stakeholders in respect of which regulatory notifications and or to address their concerns, including by offering approvals are required.
The relevant authorities in these Grow our B2B and commercially sound consumer protection measures jurisdictions may impose conditions or decline to give B2G business where appropriate approval or may seek to otherwise intervene in the Video and content acquisition.
This might result in delays, financial penalties, leadership suspension or removal of the relevant operating licence, or the imposition of unfavourable conditions in respect Build leading of these jurisdictions.
Additionally, competitors, wholesale network customers and other third parties may seek to intervene, potentially exacerbating any difficulties in the clearance process.
It is also possible that following closing of the acquisition, the combined group may be subject to more intensive regulatory scrutiny which may adversely impact the business.
Moreover, it is possible that we will not realise a maximised value from our divestiture of TSTT due to the forced nature of the sale which is a condition to the approval from the Telecommunications Authority of Trinidad and Tobago.
We also risk creating a new competitor in Trinidad and Tobago.
Integration and Synergy Risk The integration We have established an Integration Management process may be complex and difficult to complete and Office IMO and appointed a Cable & Wireless will raise risks relating to colleague retention, integrating Executive Team member to lead the integration employee groups, and disruption or failures of networks project and services, among others.
Additionally, integration may The IMO is overseen by an Integration Steering take longer than is expected, difficulties relating to Committee and Governing Board integration may arise, or we may not achieve anticipated cost reductions and efficiencies which may affect the Under the oversight of the IMO, we have created profitability of the combined business.
several integration teams including Organisation & Operating Model, Human Resources, Procurement and Supply Chain, Network Operations and Technology, Customer Support and Finance.
Each of the integration teams are led by senior management, who are responsible for ensuring the achievement of predefined objectives We have implemented retention plans to ensure continuity of key team members We have ongoing programmes of communications and events to keep team members abreast of our integration plans Annual Report 2014 15 19 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Trend Risk and impact Strategy impacted Mitigation We have increased our capital investment under Service disruption Project Marlin, our three-year plan to invest in our Our networks form part of a countrys critical national networks and improve the reliability and resilience infrastructure, and therefore, we are relied upon on of our networks a daily basis to deliver a high quality, resilient service.
Drive to mobile leadership We completed our acquisition of Columbus, which Disruption to our network and IT systems from events has accelerated the execution of our strategy and such as hurricanes and other natural disasters, fire, Fixed-mobile will support our ability to deliver greater network security breaches or human error could damage our convergence resilience and capacity to improve the overall reputation and also result in a loss of customers or customer experience financial claims.
All our businesses have business continuity policies and major incident management plans in place which we continue to review to ensure that they remain up to date We also have insurance coverage where commercially suitable to do so in order to mitigate the effects of these risks We are increasing our capital investment to improve Competitive activity customer experience We continue to operate in a fiercely competitive Our commercial capability is being strengthened environment.
Competitor activity and new market entrants could, through a combination of aggressive through our Miami operational hub Drive to mobile pricing and promotional activity, reduce our market share leadership We have been preparing for the liberalisation of the and margins.
Our mobile monopoly in The Bahamas has Bahamian mobile market since we acquired BTC to Grow our B2B and expired, as such some loss of market share and increased ensure we are well placed to compete B2G business price pressure is inevitable.
The strength of our ability We engineer our customer propositions based on to provide triple and quad play offerings are being Video and content challenged by our competitors attempts to expand their our strengths relative to competitors in particular leadership our ability to deliver triple and quad play in many capability in our markets.
Failure by the combined Group Build leading to compete effectively could have a significant adverse markets wholesale network effect on revenues, profitability and cash flow.
We actively liaise with regulators to encourage Regulatory risk a positive working relationship based upon open We need to comply with a large range of regulations and dialogue licence terms which govern our operations across the Fixed-mobile We continuously monitor developments in the multiple legal jurisdictions in which we operate.
In regulatory environment for all our businesses particular we are reliant on Governments and Regulators convergence for access, on mutually beneficial terms, to spectrum Grow our B2B and Regular reports are made to the Executive Team both for existing and for next generation mobile services.
B2G business on regulatory risks We are also impacted by key regulatory decisions relating We employ local team members who are to pricing such as the determination of termination rates.
Build leading wholesale network experienced in local laws and regulations Failure to comply with regulations or adverse regulatory decisions could impact the value of our investments, In connection with securing regulatory approval for result in fines or restrict the ability to operate or provide the acquisition of Columbus, we agreed to dispose new services to our customers.
our 49% stake in TSTT Our commercial capability is being strengthened Business development through our Miami operational hub and the The development of mobile data, pay TV and our B2B acquisition of Columbus provides us with new B2G capabilities together with other sources of revenue opportunities to develop innovative products that growth fail to perform as anticipated.
This could result in Grow our B2B and appeal to our combined customer base B2G business the Group failing to mobilise into new business lines in sufficient time to offset the structural decline in We ensure focused attention on marketing and Video and content product development activities and are increasing traditional voice revenues experienced across the leadership telecoms industry.
Failure to achieve profitable revenue our work to cross share initiatives growth will lead to a reduction in future profitability and We focus closely on the pricing of new services to cash flow.
ensure the Group achieves the required return We continue to monitor key economic indicators Economic conditions which have improved over the past year and remain The challenging economic environment in some of our prepared to take action to address any indicators of major territories and the importance of overseas tourism deteriorating economic conditions in our markets to the economies of some countries could continue to We continuously seek to improve efficiency and suppress government and consumer spending impacting our profitability and cash flow.
reduce costs in order to best meet customer price expectations 20 Cable & Wireless Communications Trend Risk and impact Strategy impacted Mitigation We have a unique position in key markets such as Political risk Panama and The Bahamas in that local Governments A change in the political environment could lead to are significant investors in our businesses changes in law, government policy or attitudes towards We monitor political developments in both existing foreign investment.
This could have an adverse impact and potential markets closely on our business operations, investment decisions and profitability.
We actively liaise with governments and opposition parties to encourage a positive working relationship with open communication at senior levels We aim to contribute positively to the social and economic development of the communities where we operate The Group has information security procedures Network and data security and controls in place which are regularly reviewed We carry and store large volumes of confidential personal and corporate data.
Unauthorised access to sensitive Remedial action plans are implemented where necessary data by third parties or employees could have an adverse effect on the Groups business, its reputation and expose We conduct third party data security reviews as the business to litigation.
required New technology developments are under constant Technology review and new technologies are introduced when New technology developments may render our existing appropriate products, services and supporting infrastructure We continue to keep abreast of the latest research obsolete or non-competitive.
As a result this may require Drive to mobile on the potential health risks of mobile phones and the Group to increase its rate and level of investment in leadership transmitters new technologies which affect cash flow and profit.
Fixed-mobile Concerns are occasionally expressed that mobile phones convergence and transmitters may pose long-term health risks which, if proven, may result in the Group being exposed to Video and content litigation.
leadership We conduct due diligence procedures on suppliers Key supplier risk to ensure they meet our requirements The Group is reliant on a relatively small number of key We have comprehensive contracts in place with suppliers.
A number of key operational functions are outsourced to third parties.
There is a risk that such suppliers to define the services supplied and the Drive to mobile standards expected contracts fail to deliver the required operational leadership improvements and or financial savings exposing us to Governance processes are in place to review the Fixed-mobile financial or reputational risk.
Business continuity could be performance of our suppliers convergence impacted in the event that one of our key suppliers fail.
Video and content leadership Periodic reporting to the Executive Team and the Health and safety Board on health and safety standards across the The Group operates equipment across many Group and any incidents experienced geographically dispersed network and cell sites in the Incident reports performed for significant health and countries in which we operate.
We are currently safety events rationalising and decommissioning certain of our sites and equipment as part of our network upgrades and Increased focus on managing health and safety risks, integration projects.
Due to the age of the sites and particularly in the Caribbean equipment, there is an inherent risk in this project that Investment to upgrade our network in the may cause harm to our employees, contractors and Caribbean, retire legacy equipment and rationalise members of the public.
property locations In the absence of proper operational and access Maintenance of insurance cover for employers safeguards, this equipment could cause harm or even death to our employees, contractors and members of liability the public.
We could also suffer consequential criminal prosecutions, fines and reputational damage.
