Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board and the senior management team are collectively responsible for managing risks and uncertainties across the Group.
In determining the nature and extent of the risks the Group is willing to take and how these are managed, the Board, Audit and Risk Committee and the senior management team look to ensure an appropriate balance is achieved which enables the Group to achieve its strategic and operational objectives and facilitates the long-term success of the Group.
Risks are identified across all of the Groups business and, once identified, the Executive Directors and the senior management team evaluate the likelihood and impact of risks and how they can be mitigated to manage their impact on the Group.
Risks are monitored and any mitigation strategies are implemented within the relevant teams in the business and these teams are then responsible for reporting to the Executive Directors through their representatives in the senior management team.
A risk register for the Group is maintained that reflects the principal risks identified across the Group and the Board and senior management teams assessment of the significance of each of the risks based on their likelihood and impact.
It also identifies those members of the senior management team who have been given ownership of these risks.
The most significant risks are reviewed regularly by the Executive Directors to ensure the extent and effectiveness of the controls and mitigation strategies the Group has in place are the subject of rigorous assessment and challenge.
The Groups Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups risk management framework and monitoring how relevant and effective it is in supporting the Group.
The Board reviews the Groups most significant risks at least twice a year, in addition to periodically challenging the Executive Directors in relation to any specific concerns and as to what they consider to be the risks which would keep them awake at night.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out below, together with details of how these are currently mitigated: MARKET Description Mitigation The Group generates almost The Group benefits from the ingrained culture of giving greeting cards all of its revenue from the sale in the UK and performs regular consumer research to review these trends.
of greeting cards, dressings and gifts, which may be subject The Group has continued to invest significantly in its in-house design to changing customer tastes capability and designs a significant proportion of its products.
continuously being refreshed as the Group moves through its key trading seasons.
Detailed sales analysis guides design and purchasing decisions.
For example, consumers could reduce their purchases Additionally, the Group has invested in its commercial finance and buying of physical greeting cards or teams which analyse sales data and consumer research to ensure these increasingly make use of are taken into account in buying decisions.
This provides the Group with e-cards and other electronic a strong platform from which to approach its third-party suppliers in communications instead of sufficient time to ensure the Group has new products on sale in time buying physical cards.
Additionally, there is a risk that The combination of these activities and the continuing benefits of its the Group may not be able to vertically integrated model help the Group position itself to respond to effectively predict and respond changes in the markets in which it operates.
to changing consumer demands and market trends.
20 20 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS COMPETITION Description Mitigation The greeting cards sector is Our in-house design and print operations help maintain and improve highly competitive, including the quality of our offering and the value we deliver to our customers.
with respect to product selection This strong focus on product development helps to strengthen our and quality, store location and specialist proposition with a large proportion of our product range design, inventory, price and being redesigned each year.
We compete with a wide range of retailers Competitor activity is closely monitored including locations, price that offer competing products of points, promotional activity, product choice and quality.
When varying quality and price.
Some considered appropriate, local pricing strategies are rapidly of our competitors, particularly implemented to protect the Groups competitive position.
supermarkets, general merchandise discounters and We continuously review individual store performance and customer stationery retailers, may have trends, for example by analysing like-for-like sales.
We also conduct greater market presence, name regular consumer surveys and market research.
recognition, financial resources and purchasing economies of We regularly invest in and monitor the functions, systems and people scale, any of which could give that combine to support our vertically integrated business model them a competitive advantage.
which underpins our competitive position.
OUR BRANDS Description Mitigation The Card Factory and Getting We regularly review customer trends and competitor activity, and Personal brands are important conduct consumer surveys so we can understand our customers assets of the Group.
If we are perception of the Groups brands.
unable to protect our brand names or there is an event which We have a dedicated quality control function that works closely with materially damages the our internal design and print divisions and third-party suppliers to reputation of our brands and or ensure product quality and safety.
we fail to sustain our appeal to our customers, this could have Where possible, we seek formal legal protection of our brands and an adverse impact on our sales designs and brand protection is the subject of increased focus with the and future prospects.
The Group has appointed a General Counsel to the senior management team to enable the Group to further develop its brand and design protection strategy.
BUSINESS STRATEGY Description Mitigation Our business strategy has been The implementation of and performance against Group strategy are developed with the aim of regularly reviewed at Board and senior management team level.
achieving long-term value for our shareholders.
The Board Competitor analysis, consumer research and increasingly EPOS data are recognises that if the strategy being used to bring additional focus to the development of the Groups of and vision for the business retail proposition and product mix to ensure customer satisfaction and are inappropriately developed, experience are maintained and where possible enhanced, these being communicated or delivered central to the sustainability of our strategy.
there could be an adverse impact on our business and its prospects.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued STORE PORTFOLIO EXPANSION Description Mitigation Management undertakes a formalised appraisal process for new location Growth in the Groups sales and opportunities which includes an assessment of potential store sales and profits over the period will profitability.
This process is well established and has been undertaken for depend on our ability to find each of the identified sites in the Groups new store roll-out plan.
The result suitable locations for new stores of this exercise is stored in a database of new store opportunities which is which, when trading, will have a continually updated and refreshed.
positive impact on the profitability of the Group.
Competition among Regular commercial analysis is conducted on new stores to assess their retailers for store sites and our performance including any cannibalisation impact where a particular ability to acquire them on location has multiple stores in close proximity.
acceptable terms are key to us We carefully monitor developments in the real estate market and look to achieving our growth objectives.
adjust our strategy where a change may adversely affect the potential Our ability to support this growing profitability of a proposed new location.
portfolio through our operational infrastructure including our The significant investments that have been made to date into the Groups production and distribution operational capabilities support the current portfolio expansion strategy in capabilities and our supplier the UK.
base, financial systems and managerial controls and procedures will be critical to the Groups success as it continues to grow.
SOURCING SUPPLY CHAIN Description Mitigation We rely on third-parties, including The Group maintains strong relationships with its principal suppliers.
many in the Far East, for the The Groups strategy is to continuously develop and broaden its supply of nearly all of our nonsupplier base, where appropriate, to help mitigate the risk of the failure card products, our handcrafted of any one supplier.
greeting cards and raw materials.
Any failure by them to satisfy We carry out inspections and audits of the factories operated by our orders on acceptable terms major suppliers either by visiting them periodically or using external including as to scale and timing companies.
The external audits carried out on our behalf provide us may adversely affect our business with reports on the condition and capacity of the suppliers operations or result in us having to seek which we can then act upon as appropriate.
alternative suppliers, who may not External audits of suppliers are conducted and the Group is a member be able to fulfil our requirements.
of Sedex the Supplier Ethics Data Exchange.
We are also exposed to changes in supplier dynamics and The Group has a dedicated quality control function that tests samples vulnerable to increases in the of our products and also inspects products on arrival and before they prices of raw materials.
are delivered to our stores.
The international nature of our supplier base means we are also subject to the risks of manufacturing and importing of goods from overseas including, but not limited to, freight costs and duty as well as the risk of interruptions in supply and reputational risk arising from the labour practices of suppliers.
22 22 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S KEY PERSONNEL Description Mitigation The successful implementation The aim of the Groups remuneration policy is to attract, retain and of the Groups strategy and the motivate high calibre senior management and to focus them on the success of our business in delivery of the Groups strategic and business objectives, to promote a general depend on our ability to strong and sustainable performance culture, to incentivise high growth continue to attract, motivate and and to align the interests of Executive Directors and members of the retain management and senior management team with those of Shareholders through employees.
We also rely on our encouraging equity ownership.
In promoting these objectives the policy in-house design team to design aims to ensure that no more than is necessary is paid and with nearly all of the cards and remuneration structured so as to adhere to the principles of good non-card merchandise.
The loss corporate governance and appropriate risk management.
of or inability to attract key members of these teams could Where necessary to support the implementation of its strategy, the adversely affect our business.
Group has supplemented its teams by recruitment across all of its functions including recent senior management hires of a Chief Information Officer and General Counsel Company Secretary.
The Nomination Committee has discussed the development of a formal succession plan for the Executive Directors and members of the senior management team.
Details of the Groups remuneration policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 59.
FINANCE AND TREASURY Description Mitigation Our funding arrangements Our current financing arrangements provide the Group with appropriate and the fact that we source financial support to underpin the delivery of its growth strategy for the the majority of our non-card foreseeable future.
Following the Groups IPO, its cash generative nature merchandise, as well as certain has continued to reduce net debt levels without adversely affecting cash raw materials used in the resources available to the Group.
production and printing of our greeting cards, from suppliers The Group has clear treasury management processes and a Group treasury located in the Far East mean that policy in place to govern cash management strategies and to manage any a lack of appropriate levels of exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates.
All foreign covenant headroom and or cash resources in the Group, or exchange and interest rate contracts are pre-approved directly by the Chief significant variations in interest Financial Officer and communicated to the Board monthly.
All cash deposits or exchange rates, could have are with reputable banks and are placed to balance the flexibility needed by an impact on our operations the Group with its cash assets with the desire to obtain a competitive return and performance.
Further details of the Groups financial position are described in the Chief Financial Officers review on pages 18 and 19.
C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 23 23 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued BUSINESS CONTINUITY Description Mitigation Any major disruption to any of the A business continuity plan has been developed which highlights the parts of our vertically integrated processes currently in place across the Group and where these can be business model, in particular to further developed and improved.
The plan will be regularly reviewed to our in-house printing facility, ensure it evolves with and remains suitable for the Group.
Printcraft, and our design studio, could severely affect our ability to The plan identifies the steps that need to be taken to ensure minimum supply our stores which would, in disruption to the Groups trading activities in the event of any major incident turn, affect the performance of or interruption affecting the Groups key systems and facilities.
Disruption to any of these functions could also force us In addition to the matters specifically addressed in the business continuity to use third-party providers and plan, the Group also holds stock across multiple locations to mitigate the this could be expensive and may risk to the business of a catastrophic event at any one of our storage be on onerous terms.
Excess stocks of key lines are also held in separate locations.
The Group also maintains appropriate business interruption insurance cover.
COMPLIANCE Description Mitigation Many aspects of our business We have a range of policies and procedures in place within the business and operations are governed by governing behaviours in all key areas, some of which address mandatory legislation, regulations and other requirements and some which we have adopted voluntarily.
These are standards and rules in areas regularly reviewed and updated and include a whistle-blowing procedure including, but not limited to, and helpline that ensures colleagues can raise any concerns in complete corporate governance, the listing confidence.
and trading of our shares, employment, product quality, Responsibility for managing and monitoring compliance within each of the trading, the environment, health Groups key operational teams sits with the relevant member of the senior and safely, bribery and data management team.
Any failure to comply with these could lead to The Group has appointed a combined General Counsel and Company penalties, fines, damages claims Secretary to oversee and co-ordinate compliance in the Group as a whole or reputational damage which with the senior management team being required to liaise with him and could, in turn, have an impact external advisers to ensure that potential issues are identified and managed.
on the financial performance of the business.
In addition, the responsibility for compliance by the Group with governance and listing requirements sits with General Counsel and Company Secretary.
24 24 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Description Mitigation The Group is dependent on In early 2014, the Group appointed a Group Chief Information Officer reliable and efficient information to further develop and oversee the implementation of the Groups IT technology IT systems and strategy and to ensure it is aligned with the long-term strategy of the processes.
These include all Group as a whole.
systems and processes supporting our retail operations both The Groups IT strategy is reviewed regularly to ensure it supports the physical and online, our head day-to-day operational needs of the business.
IT strategy and governance office function and our in-house generally form part of the Audit and Risk Committees remit for review.
A failure to adequately maintain the The continuing rollout of EPOS systems across the Groups store network Groups IT systems or any is a core part of the Groups IT strategy to continue the rollout plan in line prolonged system performance with expectations.
problems could seriously affect our ability to implement the The Groups principal IT risks are documented and agreed service levels for Groups strategy and to carry on recovery of key business systems are in place and form part of the Groups the business.
ONLINE Description Mitigation The Groups online presence in Development of the Groups online offering is one of our four growth the personalised greeting card pillars.
Following the acquisition of Getting Personal in 2011, the Group and gift market, principally via has further developed the extensive in-house web development our Getting Personal capabilities that were acquired with that business.
transactional website, is relatively new to our business.
Responsibility for review and development of online strategy has been There can be no assurance that given to a steering group chaired by the Groups Chief Information our transactional websites will Officer and whose members include the Groups Chief Executive compete effectively in a very Officer, Getting Personals Managing Director and other key members competitive market with of the senior management team.
The steering group has responsibility relatively low barriers to entry.
If for developing all areas of the strategy from technical delivery to the we fail to develop our strength of the online retail proposition and customer experience.
transactional websites in line with changing customer tastes The online strategy also forms part of the Groups wider IT strategy to and evolving technology, they ensure it remains aligned with the Groups overall technology goals.
may not deliver the anticipated growth in sales.
This may also adversely impact our reputation and our customers perception of our brands.
C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 25 25
