Operational risk management A key process The Board is responsible for determining the Groups risk appetite in Rigorous risk management pursuit of its strategic objectives and for maintaining arobust system of risk management including regular reviews of principal risks to mitigate any potential impacts associated with these risks.
is critical to the attainment Our risk management process of our strategic objectives and The Group has along-established process and methodology for the identification, quantification, monitoring and management of the principal it continues to remain akey risks associated with its operations.
The Group Head of Risk is responsible for advising on strategic risk issues and for the maintenance of aconsistent part of our business model.
approach to risk management across the Group.
Each of our business units has appointed aBusiness Group Risk Manager who is amember of the Group Risk Forum, which meets on aquarterly basis and is chaired by the Our risk management framework The Groups policy is to ensure that all risks are identified, evaluated and an appropriate response determined prior to any commitment being made to any other party.
This policy is supported by clear guidance on process and procedures, risks that are unacceptable to the Group and practical guidance for the management of risk at all levels throughout the business.
The diagram below sets out an overview of our risk management framework.
Board Responsible for setting risk appetite and overall management and review of risks.
Board Sub-committees Responsible for overseeing the development and implementation of policies relevant to their areas of scope, identification of emerging risks and for monitoring the ongoing effectiveness of our procedures.
Business Integrity Sustainability Audit Committee Major Projects Oversees effectiveness of Committee Committee Committee internal controls and risk Management of ethics Management of Reviews and approves management on behalf and compliance risks sustainability issues submission of bids for of the Board.
associated with our relating to our operations.
expenditure and mergers and acquisitions.
Corporate oversight and direction Assurance Assurance is provided Chief Executives Group Risk Other by internal audit, Leadership Team Management Functional Heads external audit and Reviews the Groups The Group Head of Risk chairs The Group Health & Safety through our participation operating and financial the Group Risk forum on aquarterly Director, Chief Information Officer, in various external performance, including key risk basis and reports key risks to the Chief Sustainability Officer and benchmarking developments on amonthly Board.
The Group Head of Risk also the Group Compliance Manager initiatives organised basis, with key issues reported undertakes asix-monthly review are responsible for the by external bodies, to the Board.
Emerging risks, of the effectiveness of the Groups development and implementation e. g. Business in the including those associated with internal controls and risk of the detailed policies major contracts, are also management procedures and procedures relevant Community and coveredduring regular and reports findings to the to their areas of responsibility Investing in Integrity.
performance reviewmeetings Audit Committee for its review.
and for the monitoring of bythe ExecutiveDirectors.
ongoing compliance with thesepolicies and procedures byour business units.
Operations Business Unit Independent peer reviews Operational risk management Business Unit Managing Independent peer reviews Operational risks are Directors and their senior of contracts are conducted by monitored and managed management teams are experienced colleagues from through local performance responsible for embedding other parts of the business reviews and project risk and the Groups policies and with outputs reported to the opportunity registers.
procedures into our day-toAudit Committee.
day activities and for reporting performance against these on aregular basis.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 26 Strategic report Group Head of Risk.
Business Unit Managing Directors are responsible for Groups principal risks are analysed on agross and net risk basis the day-to-day management of risks relating to their businesses and for the regular reporting of these to the Group Head of Risk.
1 2 In order to ensure that risk management is addressed at the front end of 9 6 4 our operations individual projects are required to appoint Project Risk 5 3 7 Managers who are responsible for escalating risk issues to Business 10 8 Unit Risk Managers.
The Group Head of Risk identifies the Groups principal risks based on the output from strategic risk lists submitted by the business units: these risks are then reviewed by the key functional heads and by the risk forum as afurther check prior to their submission 4 6 7 1 2 3 to the Board for approval.
The Groups assessment of principal risks is 8 9 10 5 taken into account in the development of internal audit plans and as partof its evaluation of any new strategic initiatives.
The potential impact arising from each risk is assessed by taking into account the potential cost and the likelihood associated with the crystallisation of each risk.
Assessment of cost takes into account both thepotential financial and reputational costs.
Business Units are required LOW MEDIUM HIGH to assess the gross impact associated with each risk and then identify potential mitigation measures, which are taken into account before arriving Probability at anet impact assessment.
Both the gross and the net impact assessment 1 Gross basis Net basis relating to each risk is reported to the Group Head of Risk.
Assessments of impact and likelihood for each risk are categorised into high, medium and 1.
Ethics and compliance low based on standard definitions, which are applied across the Group.
Health and safety During 2015, the Board reviewed the Groups principal risks and the 4.
Low oil prices Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of its internal control in 5.
Human Rights February and August and risk management systems in August.
In addition, the Groups principal risks were reviewed by the Board in February 2016.
These reviews included an assessment of the Groups overall appetite for risk relative to its current assessment of the likelihood The occurrence of the above risks could have asignificant impact on and impacts associated with its principal risks.
The Board also monitors theGroups financial position and the simultaneous occurrence of the level of risk taken on individual major projects using amodel known multiple risks could compound the overall financial impact.
It should as the Risk Management Matrix.
Following their reviews, the Board and also be noted that the Group is exposed to amuch broader universe the Audit Committee concluded that the level of risk associated with the ofpotential risks which could impact its future financial performance.
Groups principal risks is currently consistent with the Groups overall Aspart of its review the Board and Audit Committee consider other appetite in relation to these risks.
The heat map opposite sets out the risks, which have apotentially significant impact on performance, but positioning of our principal risks by impact and likelihood both before are not considered to be among the Groups principal risks due to any mitigation measures are taken into account and after the impacts theirremoteness.
Further details on the Groups principal risks are of mitigation measures are taken into account.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospect of the Company over alonger period than the 12 months required under provision C1.3 of the Code in relation to the adoption of the going concern basis.
The Board conducted this review for aperiod of three years, which was selected for the following reasons: The Groups strategic business plan covers athree-year period.
The construction programmes associated with amajority of the Groups more significant projects often do not exceed aperiod ofmore than three years.
Given its business model and the nature of its markets, the degree ofconfidence that can be placed on the Groups future revenues diminishes significantly for periods beyond the next three years.
The three-year business plan includes information in relation to the Groups revenues, profits, cash flows, dividends, net debt, and other keyfinancial and non-financial metrics.
The business plan includes alevel of cover to provide against trading risks and the resulting metrics are subject to sensitivity analysis to illustrate the impact of future deviations in the Groups liquidity position.
In addition, the outputs fromthis plan are tested against the potential impacts from the Groupskey strategic risks both individually and in unison.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors believe that they havea reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over thethree-year period of their assessment.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 Impact LOW MEDIUM HIGH
