32 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report RISk MANAGEMENT The process for identifying and assessing risk is an integral and inseparable part of the groups performance culture and processes and is therefore at the core of our business.
Understanding the risks the group faces and managing The assessment identifies the risks facing the business and them appropriately allows the group to improve its decision we consider the annual assessment to be suitably robust, making process, deliver on its objectives and therefore covering strategic and operational risks at a corporate level improve its performance as a mining company.
and risks identified at our operations in Egypt, Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
The exploration for and development of metals and mineral resources, together with the construction and development The assessment carried out during the year, which also of mining operations is an activity that involves a high took note of the work carried out by the internal auditor, degree of risk.
concluded that there were adequate procedures, polices and controls in place at an operational level and that the This group can only manage, rather than eliminate risk and risks at a corporate level, taking into account the Companys the following summarises how the group identifies, assesses strategic objectives, had been adequately identified.
areas for improvement following the review were as follows: The board retains overall responsibility for assessing the improvements in documenting the process for identifying effectiveness of the Companys systems for management risks at a corporate level and linking the risks to the of material business risks.
The board discharges the organisations objectives: responsibility of implementing risk management systems at present, risks do not have assigned owners, making to the executive management and the monitoring of risk it difficult to hold management to account for the and internal controls is delegated to the audit and risk mitigation of these risks: committee.
risk management procedures are needed to more clearly The teams in Egypt, Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire are define the risks and the responsible persons to help responsible for managing the operational risks in their define the roles and responsibilities: and respective areas and report on these to management.
more training needed in identifying and responding to risk.
Centamin conducts a variety of risk assessments throughout the year, including assessing risks daily at an operational As part of the review process, it was decided to update level, risk assessment as part of the monthly reporting the existing corporate policy on risk and the board adopted process, annual business continuity planning, preparations a revised and updated risk management framework for five year forecasts, as well as planning over the longer agreement.
The risk management framework includes term, such as the preparation of impairment and life of additional detail about the scope and structure of an mine models.
executive risk management working group.
The audit and risk committee and the board are pleased to It was noted that the areas of improvement identified confirm that the Company remains in compliance with best following the review were not seen as significant failings practice guidelines and with the UK Corporate Governance or weaknesses, but reflect the breadth and scope of Code and relevant Canadian requirements.
edition of the Code September 2014 contained a number of changes including an increased focus on how risk is Having considered the risks in detail, the key principal risks governed and managed, with new provisions on the robust have been identified and are set out on page 34.
The risks assessment of solvency and liquidity, continuous monitoring reflected in the matrix and the mitigating actions reflect the of systems of internal control and a statement on business key principal risks to the Company and its stakeholders.
Details of our viability statement can be found on The board has overall responsibility for establishing risk page 37 and our going concern statement can be found on across Centamin through a robust risk management system page 103. that allows for the assessment and management of material This risk assessment carried out by the group covers the strategic and operational risks.
In addition, the board is following key areas: responsible for articulating the groups risk appetite against the principal risks.
operational risks within the business: corporate risks identified as either strategic or operational in nature : and principal risks based on the corporate risk register.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 33 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report The audit and risk committee monitors the risk management activity during 2015 relating to risk management and internal control structure implemented by management.
During the year, the audit and risk committee and the board It advises on significant changes to that structure so as to evaluated their risk management processes and reporting.
obtain reasonable assurance that the Companys assets In evaluating the current processes and taking advice and are safeguarded and that reliable financial records are guidance from both the external and internal auditors, they maintained.
The committee assists in developing the risk have prepared a revised and updated risk management environment, making suggestions on ways in which the framework.
During 2016, the updated framework will business can improve its internal reporting.
The committee assist the Company to enhance reporting and information receives comprehensive monthly reporting information from flows to the board and assist the board, aided by the audit the groups operations and enhanced reporting in the event and risk committee, in assessing the effectiveness of the of an incident.
Companys systems for management of material strategic and operational risks.
In addition, the following reports were The other committees of the board ensure that their areas prepared for the audit and risk committees review: of responsibility take account of the groups risk strategy and any matters relating to risk identification are raised directly comprehensive control environment memorandum and to the board on a quarterly basis.
recommendations for further improvement prepared by the management team: The CEO, aided by the senior management team, is monthly and quarterly reporting on the operational responsible for developing short, medium and longterm activity, including enhanced reporting on any significant corporate strategies for the group, preparing business plans operational and corporate issues: and reports with senior management and reporting to the board on current and future initiatives.
In developing the internal audit work on the risk management structure corporate strategy, the CEO ensures that the group has the and recommendations on developing the reporting and appropriate risk management practices and policies in place information flows between the operational areas and and assesses business opportunities which are of potential the board: benefit to the group taking into account its strategic external audit work culminating in the annual and objectives and risk appetite.
halfyearly audit report: and significant incident reports.
The executive management team is responsible for defining, debating and challenging the nature of the targets in 2016 principal and corporate risks, and for ensuring that risk The board and the audit and risk committee will use the management is consistently applied within the group.
The risk framework agreement to influence the type and form executive and key personnel within management meet of risk information that is currently reported to management regularly to discuss new and emerging risks for the group.
The board will also consider the approach At an operational level, the heads of department are taken to, and effectiveness in, influencing the Companys responsible for implementing the requirements of the risk risk appetite and risk culture throughout the organisation.
management framework and providing assurance to the Activities that will be taking place during 2016 include: executive management that the work has been carried out.
embedding the risk management framework within the The internal auditor reports primarily to the audit and risk organisation: committee and provides an independent viewpoint and enhancing the reporting to the board at a strategic and assurance over certain strategic risks and the controls that operational level: are in place to mitigate the risks.
The internal auditor also considering further our risk appetite towards strategic assists the business in monitoring the effectiveness of the risks and strategic objectives: and risk management and internal control environment.
See continuing with its work to improve the control page 100 for further details on the role and scope of the environment and updating the control environment internal auditor.
The external auditor designs procedures to assess the The results of these initiatives will be published in the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements, 2016 annual report and accounts.
looking particularly at subjective judgments that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
The responsibilities of the group and those of the external auditor in forming their opinion are set out in the independent auditors report on page 105.
34 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report RISk MANAGEMENT continued principal risks Centamin takes a number of measures to mitigate risks associated with its underlying operational and exploration activity which are monitored and evaluated regularly.
Due to the nature of these inherent risks, it is not possible to give absolute assurance that mitigating actions will be wholly effective.
riSk category treND NatUre oF riSk MitigatioN coMMeNtary The Sukari Project currently constitutes Centamins main mineral resource and sole mineral reserve The project at Sukari has two distinct ore sources open pit and underground and the processing Until further production growth beyond Sukari strategic risK Neutral and nearterm production and revenue.
The resource at the advanced stage of exploration in plant has two separate flotation circuits and two separate power stations.
Whilst one project, the is identified, the potential impact remains high single project dependency Burkina Faso is not currently of a sufficient size to convert into a reserve.
The regional exploration nature of the design of the plant provides adequate mitigation and reduces the relative likelihood of and safeguarding the project is paramount to of the licence portfolio in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire continues on the existing 1.92Moz dependence compared to a single layer plant design.
The second circuit of the processing plant has the Company.
been fully operational for over twelve months which shows the resilience of the project.
In addition, the plant is fed by both the open pit and underground operation, providing high and lowergrade ore to the processing plant.
Operational activity and production is expected to continue at above nameplate capacity.
Other mitigating factors include the continued focus on longer term growth and expansion through exploration and acquisition targets both inside and outside of Egypt.
iNterNaL strategic risK Neutral Whilst Centamin retains control over the project, the joint venture holding company, Sukari These include ensuring cooperative and timely correspondence, maintaining good relations with The successful management of the Sukari Gold Gold Mines SGM, is jointly owned with EMRA with equal board representation from both EMRA and making sure that the terms and conditions of the Concession Agreement governing the Mine is in part dependent on maintaining a good sukari project joint venture risk parties.
The board of SGM operates by way of simple majority.
As such, should the board of mine are fully complied with.
The group has and relationship with eMra SGM be unable to reach consensus on a matter requiring board level approval or in the event regular meetings with officials from EMRA and invests Current discussions with EMRA are focused on the cost recovery process and determining the exact of any dispute that may arise which cant otherwise be amicably resolved, arbitration or other time in liaising with relevant ministry and other timing and quantum of the first payment of profit share for Sukari, as well as the interpretation of proceedings may need to be employed to resolve any disputes.
certain provisions of the Concession Agreement.
Centamin has shown its willingness to assist EMRA through prepayments in relation to future profit share.
The Company does not currently hedge against the price of gold or exposure to currencies.
Centamin manages its exposure to gold price by keeping operating costs as low as possible.
The group is 100% exposed to the gold price, eXterNaL Strategic riSk Neutral Revenues from gold sales are in US dollars and Centamin has exposure to costs in other currencies however, the cash costs of the Sukari Gold Mine gold price and currency exposure including Egyptian pounds, Australian dollars and sterling.
Natural hedges against currency remain low compared with the industry norm.
fluctuations are utilised wherever possible to offset foreign currency liabilities.
iNterNaL strategic risK Neutral The groups corporate structure includes operational activity in Egypt and West Africa held Exposure to changing cross jurisdictional tax legislation could have an adverse effect of the See note 7 in the financial statements for details of through holding companies in Australia and the United Kingdom.
Companys ability to repatriate revenues.
The group engages tax advisers to provide local advice at the tax liability through the Australian holding group Jurisdictional taxation exposure an operational level as well as corporate and structuring advice at a corporate level.
eXterNaL Strategic riSk Improved The Companys operational activities are primarily in Egypt, a country which has been subject to The Concession Agreement with EMRA and the Egyptian government, was declared into Egyptian In respect to the Companys operations in Egypt, civil and military disturbance.
Future political and economic conditions in Egypt could change with law no.
222 of 1994 which further protects the Companys licence rights and sets the applicable the potential for serious impact should be balanced political risk sukari future governments adopting different policies that may impact the development and ownership tax regime for a number of years.
The law received full parliamentary approval as required by against the Egyptian governments support of of mineral resources.
Policy changes and licensing may also impact the use of explosives, tenure of Egyptian law.
Centamins investment and contribution to both mineral concessions, taxation, royalties, exchange rates, environmental protection, labour relations revenue and development of the mining industry.
and repatriation of income and capital.
Changes may also impact the ability to import key supplies New laws have been introduced to protect and and export gold.
therefore encourage foreign investment which is a positive step for the country.
This new law was recently confirmed by the newly installed Parliament, although law no.
32 remains subject to a challenge in the Supreme Court.
The Company operates in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
There are no assurances that future Centamin actively monitors legal and political developments, engaging in dialogue with relevant Policies have developed over many years to eXterNaL Strategic riSk Neutral political and economic conditions in these countries will not result in the governments adopting government and legal policy makers to discuss all key legal and regulatory developments.
encourage foreign investment and the development political risk West africa different policies in respect to foreign development and ownership of exploration and of mining operations, which continues to be the focus exploitation licences.
of governments in these regions.
iNterNaL operatioNaL riSk Neutral Mineral resource and reserve figures are prepared by Centamin personnel and reviewed by Management has implemented processes to continuously monitor and evaluate the current life of The most recent technical update was completed in externally appointed independent geologists.
By their nature, mineral resources and reserves the Sukari Gold Mine, mine plans and production targets.
Form 43101 dated 23 October 2015 and is available reserve and resource estimate are estimates based on a range of assumptions, including geological, metallurgical, technical at www.
Details of the reserve and resource and economic factors.
Other variables include expected costs, inflation rates, gold price and can be found on pages 50 and 51. production outputs.
There can be no guarantee that the anticipated tonnages or grades expected by Centamin will be achieved both from the underground operation or open pit.
iNterNaL operatioNaL riSk Improved Centamin prepares annual estimates for future gold production from the Sukari Gold Mine.
The realisation of production estimates are dependent on, amongst other things: the accuracy of Whilst there can be no certainties, production to date There can be no assurance that Centamin will achieve its production estimates and such failure mineral reserve and resource estimates: the accuracy of assumptions regarding ore grades and has provided confidence in managements estimation Failure to achieve production estimates could have a material and adverse effect on Centamins future cash flows, profitability, results of recovery rates: the ore tonnes and grade mined from the underground operation which are outside and mine planning methods and with the fully operations and financial condition.
It should be specifically noted that the potential quantity and the current reserve base: ground conditions, a skilled and motivated labour force: processing operational expanded processing plant, the prospect grade from the Sukari underground mine is conceptual in nature, that there has been insufficient capacity and maintenance policies and logistics for consumables and parts.
of improvements in reliable forecasting is increased.
exploration to define a mineral resource and that it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the target being delineated as a mineral resource.
Centamins finances, and its ability to operate in Egypt, may be severely adversely affected by In order to mitigate this risk Centamin has a engaged appropriate legal advice and continues to The potential for serious impact should be balanced eXterNaL operatioNaL riSk Improved current and any future litigation proceedings and it is possible that further litigation could be actively pursue its legal rights with respect to the existing litigation and its legal advisers believe that against Centamins adherence to local laws and Litigation initiated against Centamin at any time.
Centamin is currently involved in litigation that relates both Centamin will ultimately be successful in both of these cases: and b actively monitors both activity agreements, as well as the Egyptian governments to a the validity of its exploitation lease at Sukari and b the price at which it can purchase Diesel in court and local media for signs of any legislative developments that may threaten its operations, support of Centamins investment and law no.
Full details of the current litigation can be found on page 133. finances or prospects.
2014 that should protect Centamin against litigation of this nature as well the fact that Egypt and Australia have in place a bilateral investment treaty.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 35 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report The descriptions below describe the current status of the principal risks affecting Centamin and its operational and exploration activities together with the measures to mitigate risk.
36 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report RISk MANAGEMENT continued One of our main objectives is to achieve a target of zero The trend column on page 34 indicates the relative injuries and for every employee to be safe every day.
movement either adverse, neutral or improving for The control environment and operating practices in place each principal risk, over the last twelve months.
This at our mining and exploration operations help reduce trend represents the views of the Company based on the likelihood of harm to our employees.
We are also their experience operating and working in the relevant committed to attracting, energising, developing and jurisdictions.
training our workforce to ensure they are highly skilled risk appetite and motivated.
In the fourth quarter, the Sukari Gold Mine Risk appetite forms an integral part of corporate operation encountered its first fatality, when a contractors governance and in defining risk appetite the board has employee was involved in a rock collapse whilst relocating given consideration to the following: a grade control drill rig.
The incident was thoroughly investigated and more details on the incident can be found a the Companys strategy, objectives and specific goals: in the CSR report on page 38 and operational report on b acceptable risk tolerances, the parameters for acceptable page 48.
Earlier in 2015, an incident occurred in Burkina risk and attitudes towards risk: Faso on a public road near the Konkera village which c existing policies, processes and practices within the resulted in a local employee being fatally wounded and group to ensure risks are managed within the acceptable another sustaining injuries.
A thorough investigation into and agreed limits: this bandit attack on two of our vehicles has been carried out.
Further additional security measures were implemented d the competitive environment with consideration of following the incident.
shareholders views and the need to reassess or more fully communicate risk appetite: and We recognise the value of being a socially responsible e shortterm risk which needs to be specifically managed.
employer and the importance of engaging with the wider community in the areas in which we operate.
By investing in The groups employees are paramount to the success of the community and engaging in projects that directly and the organisation and therefore the groups policies and positively impact local people, we can foster a cooperative procedures demand the lowest levels of risk appetite working environment.
Full details of our community and risk tolerance for employee and contractor health, projects and local initiatives are set out in our CSR report on safety and wellbeing.
The group has a higher risk appetite page 46. towards its strategic objectives, such that risks are reduced to reasonably practicable levels, in the pursuit of mineral exploration, development and gold production.
Meeting environmental, regulatory and legal obligations takes priority over other business objectives.
ceNtaMiN pLc riSk MaNageMeNt proceSS iNitiaL riSk iDeNtiFicatioN, DocUMeNtatioN aND aSSeSSMeNt Approve risk Set corporate policy and objectives strategy, and set risk appetite Review, If unsatisfied with challenge and managements view of risks approve risk register Document Risk Report to the Implement risk Consider risks in mitigating monitoring Identify key risks Assess and audit and risk management at relation to risk actions and to objectives analyse key risks committee on an operational appetite sources of risks level assurance Develop operational level risk registers Operational Senior Audit and risk Board management management committee Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 37 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report The groups risks may change over time, as will the groups risk appetite statement, as the external environment changes and as operations are expanded into new geographical areas.
The risk management and review process requires regular monitoring of the Companys existing risks and the identification of any new and emerging risks facing the Company, including financial and nonfinancial matters.
It also requires the ongoing management of the appropriateness of the risk mitigation in place.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the directors have assessed the Companys prospects over the longer term, addressing a period of five years.
A key part of the directors assessment was a review carried out in May 2015 for business reasons which also assisted the process of formalising a review of the longer term viability Fire safety of the Company.
The assessment took into account the Companys position and progress against its four strategic focus areas including generating free cash flow, shareholder The May 2015 investor presentation, together with the return, growth and social responsibility.
The strategic focus latest presentations can be viewed on the Companys areas are set out on page 18.
In addition, the Company website which contain the latest uptodate operational considered the potential impact on its principal risks, and and financial forecasts.
also considered how its appetite for risk might affect the As well as the May 2015 review, the directors overall assessment.
The May 2015 review allowed management assessment took into account the Companys resource and to share the Companys strategic objectives with key reserve statement, which was completed in September stakeholders and to explain the Companys business model 2015 and underpins longerterm strategic and operational and its prospects over the coming five years.
The relevant 43101 Technical Report can be The review received board approval and formed the basis of viewed at www.
com and on the Companys website.
The financial forecasts used in the The management team also considers strategic, operational review included key assumptions about gold price, future and compliance risks throughout the year and produces the production levels, operating and capital costs, cash flows following reports and documents for board and audit and and the groups balance sheet and shareholder returns.
risk committee review to support it in making the formal The operational forecasts included mining and process viability statement: plant throughput levels, grades and metallurgical recovery rates.
The operation at Sukari has a low costperounce of operational risk assessment register and corporate production compared with other operating mines, which risk matrix: contributes to the Companys longer term viability.
annual impairment review: Although the business does prepare plans over a longer going concern review: time horizon, notably in the Sukari life of mine models, the life of mine model: Company chose five years for its viability statement due business continuity planning: and to the level of rigour and detail involved in the May 2015 monthly and annual budgets.
On the basis of all the procedures outlined above, the As part of the May 2015 review process the potential directors confirmed on the date of this report that they have impact on the groups principal risks was considered, at a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to both a strategic and operational level.
Of the principal risks continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due identified on pages 34 and 35 those with the most potential over the fiveyear period of their assessment.
to impact negatively upon the Companys ongoing viability, include the gold price, the relationship with its joint venture partner, political risk and the ongoing litigation in Egypt.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out on the key inputs to the financial and operational forecasts, including sensitivity analysis on the average gold price.
