38 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES A summary of our principal risks Our Principal Risks and uncertainties which may impact the delivery of our strategic priorities and Uncertainties is shown below.
i A summary of our principal risks and uncertainties Strategic risks Risk climate ii 1 Strategy delivery Increased risk 2 External market environment Increased risk 3 Political and regulatory intervention No change in risk 4 Brand, trust and perception No change in risk 5 Business planning, forecasting No change in risk and performance Operational risks Risk climate ii 6 Customer service No change in risk 7 People Increased risk 8 Change management Increased risk 9 Asset development, availability No change in risk and performance 10 Sourcing and supplier management No change in risk 11 Health, safety, environment No change in risk and security 12 Information systems and security No change in risk Compliance risks Risk climate ii 13 Legal, regulatory and ethical Decreased risk standards compliance Financial risks Risk climate ii 14 Financial market Increased risk 15 Credit and liquidity Increased risk 16 Financial processing and reporting No change in risk i This list is not exhaustive and items are not prioritised.
ii The risk rating is based on our current understanding of our risk environment, but may change over time as our business and the operating environment continue to evolve.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 39 In 2015, we reviewed the design of our This provides an overarching framework, risk universe to ensure a more consistent which includes processes for identifying, and comprehensive approach to risk achieving and managing principal risks identification.
to the achievement of our strategic priorities.
These processes are reinforced through regular performance management and are subject to internal and external review.
Principal risks and uncertainties Description Potential impact Controls and mitigating activities The Group is being reorganised to achieve Delivery of the strategy is the primary objective of the Board and 1 Strategy delivery the strategic objectives announced in 2015.
Executive who are directly engaged in regular progress reviews.
Failure to deliver The delivery of this strategy creates additional Centrica strategy.
The Board approves the Group annual plan setting the strategic uncertainties, including in relation to growth direction.
of new businesses, the achievement of We have a clear financial framework to ensure capital is allocated disposals and the realisation of substantial in line with strategy and towards projects best able to deliver expected cost efficiencies.
Where necessary, experienced leaders have been identified and appointed to ensure the delivery of the critical strategic goals.
Strategic definition is provided through clear delegated targets embedded in business plans.
Customer behaviour, downstream competitive Regular analysis undertaken on commodity price fundamentals 2 External market positions and upstream operational results and their potential impact on business plans and expectations.
environment are impacted by: improved energy efficiency, Strategic discussions focused in 2015 on a broad range of external Changes and events competitor activity, climate change, scenarios and sensitivities to underpin the viability of the strategic in the external market commodity price movement, long-term review.
or environment that weather patterns and the general could impact delivery Clarity provided during 2015 on the strategic desire for an integrated economic outlook.
business operating across the value chain, providing a balanced risk portfolio.
Investments in businesses such as Connected Home in response to changing external trends and requirements.
We support climate change targets set at a national and international level by driving down carbon emissions across our business as well as giving customers greater control over their energy through innovative and energy efficient products and services.
We are subject to oversight by a range of Constructive and regular engagement with regulatory bodies such 3 Political and political and regulatory bodies.
UK regulators as the CMA, with a clear commitment to an open, transparent and regulatory continue to impose significant obligations competitive UK energy market that provides choice for consumers.
intervention to implement carbon reduction measures The Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committee Changes, intervention and energy affordability.
We await the final SHESEC has oversight of regulatory risk, in addition to the or a failure to influence outcome of the CMA investigation into the discussions within the Board.
change to the political energy markets in the UK and the implications or regulatory Work with regulators to find a better approach to intervention that for our businesses.
agrees clear targets against which we can demonstrate progress.
Consistent engagement with political parties to bring about agreement on critical areas in energy policy.
Our customers are critical to our business NPS and other customer service and brand metrics regularly reviewed 4 Brand, trust and and are at the heart of our strategy.
To grow by Executive Committee and the Board.
perception and evolve our business we must protect and Competitive Focus on providing affordable energy and excellent service through develop our brand, building trust across a positioning and a fair and simplified transparent offering.
protection of the Seek to protect the most vulnerable households through financial Centrica and advice and aid.
Engage with stakeholders to understand their views and identify solutions to help reduce bills and improve transparency.
READ MORE IN OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ON PAGE 55.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 40 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Principal risks and uncertainties Description Potential impact Controls and mitigating activities We prioritise how we use our resources Planning processes revised to underpin the strategic objectives 5 Business planning, based on our business plans and forecasts.
for 2016 and beyond, as well as to support the shape of the future forecasting and Failure to accurately plan and forecast could operating model.
performance result in suboptimal decisions and may Board and Executive Committee directly engaged in constructive Business planning, impact expected benefits.
challenge of the planning, forecasting and risk management forecasting, risk processes.
management and achievement of Direct interaction between the strategy, fundamentals, planning anticipated benefits.
and finance teams in arriving at forecasts and plans.
Performance review process designed to provide challenge and a forum for discussion of critical uncertainties in the business planning processes.
The delivery of high quality customer service Providing the optimal service to our customers is discussed regularly 6 Customer service is central to our business strategy.
With the at both Board and Executive Committee meetings.
Failure to provide good entry of new competitors to the market, quality customer Where we are known to have experienced issues, such as the service customers are increasingly likely to switch service.
to our British Gas Business customers, we have ensured a full and supplier if they face an unacceptable focused response.
We must remain at Commitment to continually strengthen our controls for customer the forefront of technological development service and complaints management.
to provide choice and efficiency.
Increased investment in Connected Home to give customers greater visibility, control and engagement over their energy usage.
The change in our business model means People Committee established at the executive level to provide focus 7 People attracting and retaining the right skills to meet on the key talent challenges.
Attraction, retention, evolving priorities is critical.
Similarly, Board level consideration of values, culture and succession matters.
and succession of the maintaining industrial relations across our right people with the Clearly defined people strategy, based on organisational capability businesses becomes more challenging, given right skills in the right and requirements, culture and engagement, equality and wellbeing, our announced level of job losses.
Insufficient role at the right time.
talent development, training and reward and recognition.
capability and capacity in senior management Active engagement with trade unions on restructuring and issues that and key skills will limit our ability to grow and could impact terms and conditions, with clear and open processes execute our strategy at the speed required.
to promote an environment of trust and honesty.
Annual employee engagement survey to identify what we are doing well and where we need to improve.
The scale of change planned in our business Monthly Executive Committee review of the strategy implementation 8 Change is significant.
Any substantial delay or and required change programmes, allow for the open discussion management challenge experienced with the organisational of emerging risks and control requirements.
Execution of change restructuring, system implementation or Progress and issues reported to and discussed by the Board.
programmes and growth of new businesses could adversely business restructuring.
Appointment of a senior executive in 2015 to lead the transformation affect stakeholder expectations.
At the same programme bringing focused attention on benefits realisation, risk time we must maintain our systems of internal prioritisation and milestone tracking.
Focused on our people throughout the change, recognising the need for appropriate capability to be built across the organisation.
Established forums for sharing of good practice as we seek to standardise and simplify the business model.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 41 Principal risks and uncertainties Description Potential impact Controls and mitigating activities Failure to invest in the maintenance and The Board takes a direct interest in the oversight of our significant 9 Asset development of our assets could result assets and in ensuring we have the highest operational standards.
development, in underperformance, assets being out Group-wide minimum standards applied to all assets, whether availability and of service or significant safety issues.
operated or non-operated, in order to have confidence in their performance The Company must have confidence in integrity.
Investment, its operational integrity and ability to perform Clarity on future direction of E&P assets provided through the development and and deliver in line with objectives.
strategic review underpinning our continued commitment to integrity of operated this sector.
Capital allocation and investment decisions governed through the Investment Committee chaired by the Chief Executive.
Across our business operations we rely on Board level oversight is provided through the SHESEC, with the 10 Sourcing services provided by third parties.
These executive level Ethics & Compliance Committee also focused and supplier include outsourced activities and third party on this area.
management infrastructure as well as operating All suppliers are required to sign up to our Responsible Procurement Dependency on and responsibility in some assets.
As with policies and procedures.
management of third any contractual relationship there are no parties to deliver the Financial health risk and anti-bribery and corruption due diligence and guarantees that suppliers will always products and services monitoring is implemented in supplier selection and contract renewal comply with legal, regulatory or corporate for which they have processes.
been contracted to Corporate responsibility processes in place for procurement the agreed time, of all goods and services.
Our operations have the potential to result in HSES is considered to be of upmost significance to the Group and 11 Health, safety, personal, environmental or operational harm.
receives Board level oversight through the dedicated SHESEC.
environment and Significant HSES events could also have security HSES Specific HSES executive level committee also established, chaired regulatory, legal, financial, and reputational by the Chief Executive on a monthly basis.
HSES hazards and impacts that would adversely affect some regulations associated Strengthening of the second line of defence assurance capability, or all of our brands and businesses.
with Centricas to provide independent assessments of the controls and processes operations.
in place to manage these risks, to ensure they remain effective and continue to develop.
Investment in capability development and awareness activities to ensure we maintain safe operating practices in all our businesses.
Regular evaluation of security intelligence, operating procedures, crisis management and business continuity plans, to provide assurance of our capability to respond rapidly and appropriately to any incident.
Our substantial customer base and strategic Information systems and cyber security received substantial Board level 12 Information requirement to be at the forefront of focus during 2015 and remain a continued focus for the SHESEC.
systems and technology development, means that it is Detection and investigation of threats and incidents were prioritised, security critical our technology is robust, our systems through further investment in 2015 and by engaging with key Effectiveness, are secure and our data protected.
Sensitive technology partners and suppliers.
availability, integrity data faces the threat of misappropriation from and security of IT Increased focus on employee awareness and training in relation to hackers, viruses and other sources, including systems and data sensitive data and digital information.
essential for Centricas Policies over new technology development reviewed and tested operations.
Collaborative working with other parties across the energy industry and within the wider public and private sectors to share threat information.
Evaluation and testing of cyber security crisis management and wider business continuity plans.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 42 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Principal risks and uncertainties Description Potential impact Controls and mitigating activities Our operations are the subject of intense SHESEC established in 2015 to provide Board level oversight of this 13 Legal, regulatory regulatory focus and we seek to deliver the risk, alongside the executive level Ethics & Compliance Committee.
and ethical highest standards in compliance and ethical The Disclosure Committee will review all external regulatory standards conduct.
We recognise any real or perceived announcements.
compliance failure to follow our global Business Principles The Chairman is directly responsible for promoting high ethical Compliance with legal, or comply with legal or regulatory obligations standards and best practice in corporate governance and ensures regulatory and ethical would undermine trust in our business.
the effective contribution of all Directors.
Non-compliance could also result in fines Experienced Group Ethics and Compliance Officer appointed in 2016 and other penalties.
to bring additional strength and focus.
Group Business Principles govern how we conduct our affairs.
Managers are required to declare that they will uphold these principles on an annual basis to ensure that we remain a responsible and fully compliant business.
Speak Up process in place to enable employees to raise and report any concerns.
Our financial performance and price Audit Committee reviews, assesses and challenges the effectiveness 14 Financial market competitiveness is dependent upon our of the governance and control mechanisms within EM&T.
Exposure to market ability to manage exposure to wholesale Group Financial Risk Management Committee meets monthly movements, including commodity prices for gas, oil, coal, carbon to review Group financial exposures and assess compliance with commodity prices and and power, interest rates for our long-term risk limits.
volumes, inflation, borrowing, fluctuations in various foreign interest rates and Governance and controls exist to manage liquidity and funding currencies and environmental factors.
Active hedging programmes in place to mitigate exposure to commodity and financial market volatility.
The seasonal nature of our business, Significant committed facilities are maintained with sufficient cash 15 Credit and liquidity contractual obligations, pension and held on deposit to meet fluctuations as they arise.
Management of decommissioning funding and margin cash counterparty A regular assessment of available resources is made including that arrangements associated with certain exposures and funding required to support the viability and going concern assumptions wholesale commodity contracts, have a uncertainties.
significant impact on our liquidity.
Certain Counterparty exposures are restricted by setting credit limits for each events and activities may have a direct impact counterparty, where possible by reference to published credit ratings.
on our credit, ratings and liquidity, which could Wholesale credit risks associated with commodity trading and increase the cost of, and access to, financing.
treasury positions are managed in accordance with Group policy.
We must be able to maintain robust financial Audit Committee maintains close oversight of the financial policies 16 Financial systems and produce accurate financial and procedures within clearly defined guidelines.
processing and statements that adequately disclose all Processes in place provide assurance over the completeness and reporting applicable accounting policies.
This obligation accuracy of our public financial reporting, with monitoring and internal Accuracy and includes maintaining processes to avoid audit activity designed to identify any misstatements or errors.
completeness of misstatement through fraud or error.
The internal and external We maintain an effective working relationship with our external confidence of our investor and regulatory financial information.
auditors and value their insight and recommendations.
stakeholders is reliant on the continued integrity of our financial public reporting.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 43 44 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Corporate 46 SENIOR EXECUTIVES Governance 47 D IRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 63 REMUNERATION REPORT 80 IND EPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT During the year the Board conducted a comprehensive review of the Board and Committees governance framework against the Groups identified principal risks.
C Ce en nt tr riic ca p a pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5
