Risks and risk management The management of risks is a key responsibility of the Board The Groups lead product candidate is a treatment for cat allergy.
of Directors of the Company.
The Board ensures that the Failure to obtain regulatory approval for this lead product, or significant risks taken by the Group are understood, and are appropriate delays in obtaining approval, would have a material adverse effect on in the light of its strategy and objectives, and that internal the Groups business.
This risk can be further divided into a number of controls are in place to effectively identify, assess, and manage component risks, each of which require distinct mitigation strategies.
These include a failure to complete the phase III registration study and supporting studies: inability to demonstrate efficacy of the product The risk management strategy adopted by the Company has a number after moving to field studies from chamber studies: and any problems of facets.
A risk register has been created and is updated on an annual which might arise in validating the manufacturing process for the active basis by those individuals in the business who manage risks on a pharmaceutical ingredient in the product.
This identifies each risk, assesses the likelihood of its occurrence and the level of impact on the business.
This process The Group already holds regulatory approvals for its NIOX MINO is coordinated by the Chief Financial Officer.
The register is reviewed and NIOX VERO devices in certain key countries such as the United by the Senior Management Team and subsequently reviewed by States, Japan, and Germany but approvals are still pending in a the Audit and Risk Committee and reported to the Board.
There is a number of other countries.
Delays or complications in any of these particular emphasis on ensuring that the risk appetite of the Board is regulatory applications could adversely affect the Groups business.
fully understood by the Senior Management Team.
The register also In order to obtain regulatory approval for the Groups products, it sets out activities and controls which are designed to mitigate the will be necessary to successfully complete supporting clinical studies.
identified risks, and again the Board and the Senior Management Team The Group is currently carrying out clinical trials for a number of analyse these mitigation strategies and ensure that the approach taken its allergy and respiratory products.
Clinical studies are typically is consistent with the nature and degree of risks which are considered expensive, complex and time-consuming, and have uncertain acceptable by the Board.
Aside from the review, risk owners across outcomes.
Conditions in which clinical studies are conducted differ, the business are responsible for reporting any significant issues on an and results achieved in one set of conditions could be different from ongoing basis up to the Senior Management Team and for ensuring the results achieved in different conditions or with different subject that other members of their teams are aware of the risk management populations.
Regulatory authorities or institutional review boards process.
The Senior Management Team, which meets weekly, receives may suspend or terminate clinical studies at any time if the subjects summary weekly updates and more detailed monthly reports from participating in such studies are being exposed to unacceptable health all areas of the business, and updates the Board on a timely basis risks or may require additional studies to be performed.
Difficulties or where important developments occur.
Within the R&D function, project delays in the enrolment of subjects could result in significant delays in team meetings take place once a month at which the progress and the completion of those studies and even in their abandonment.
risks of each individual project are discussed and detailed reports are circulated.
The Quality Team, Compliance Committee, and Health The Group relies on third party sub-contractors and service providers and Safety Committee also meet regularly.
These discussions for the execution of most aspects of its development programmes.
are documented in reports which are circulated to the Senior Failure of these third parties to provide services of a suitable quality Management Team.
within acceptable timeframes for example due to technical reasons or bankruptcy of the provider may cause the failure or delay of these The risk management system is designed to manage risks, rather development programmes.
than eliminate them at the expense of achieving corporate objectives.
Even where approval is obtained, regulatory authorities may still Accordingly, it can only provide a reasonable and not an absolute impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the product or impose costly, ongoing requirements for post-marketing Risk management during the year has been enhanced to reflect the surveillance or post-approval studies, or may even withdraw the fact that, following the acquisition of Aerocrine, the Group now sells approval if new concerns over safety and efficacy arise.
products in the US, Europe, and around the world.
This has led to the Mitigating activities inclusion of compliance with healthcare regulations as a new category The Group manages its regulatory risk by employing highly of principal risk in this years report.
experienced clinical managers and regulatory affairs professionals who, where appropriate, will commission advice from external advisers and Principal risks consult with the regulatory authorities on the design of the Groups The main risks relevant to the Group have been identified below, pre-clinical and clinical programs.
These in-house experts ensure together with an explanation of how they are managed and controlled.
that high quality protocols and other documentation are submitted Some risks are common across the pharmaceutical industry, while during the regulatory process, and that well-reputed contract research others reflect the Groups specific strategy.
The Company considers organisations with global capabilities are retained to manage the trials.
all of these risks relevant to any decision to invest in it.
With regard to the risks specifically identified in relation to its cat Regulatory approvals allergy product, it is of note that final dosing in the phase III study The Group may not obtain regulatory approval for those of its products has now been successfully completed: allergen levels used in the which are in development.
Even where products are approved, exposure chamber have been shown to be comparable to those subsequent regulatory difficulties may arise, or the conditions relating to experienced with an indoor cat: and three validation batches have been the approval may be more onerous or restrictive than the Group expects, manufactured, giving comfort that the manufacturing process is robust.
or existing approvals might be withdrawn.
The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory authorities across the world enforce a range of laws and regulations which govern the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of pharmaceutical products.
Stringent standards are imposed which relate to the quality, safety and efficacy of these products.
These requirements are a major determinant of whether it is commercially feasible to develop a drug substance or medical device given the time, expertise, and expense which must be invested.
Moreover, approval in one territory offers no guarantee that regulatory approval will be obtained in any other territory.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 34 Unforeseen side effects Factors that may undermine the Groups efforts to commercialise its Unforeseen side effects may result from the use of the Groups products include: the inability to train and retain effective sales and products or product candidates.
marketing personnel: a failure to persuade prescribers to prescribe products: and higher costs of marketing and promotion than are There is a risk of adverse reactions with all drugs and there is a risk that anticipated by the Group.
the malfunction of a medical diagnostic may have an adverse impact on patients.
If any of the Groups products are found to cause adverse Mitigating activities reactions or unacceptable side effects or risk of misdiagnosis, then In the context of its cat allergy treatment, thorough market research product development may be delayed, additional expenses may be will be carried out prior to product launch and the findings will be incurred if further studies or product development work are required, used to generate effective and appropriately resourced marketing and, in extreme circumstances, it may prove necessary to suspend or campaigns.
This will emphasise the attributes which differentiate the terminate development.
This may occur even after regulatory approval product from its competitors, for example its short dosing regimen has been obtained, in which case additional trials may be required and favourable safety profile.
A disease awareness campaign will be or the approval may be suspended or withdrawn or additional safety developed and implemented.
Pricing and reimbursement studies and health economic data will be used to support the value proposition warnings may have to be included on the label.
which will be presented to payers.
Adverse events or unforeseen side effects or device malfunction may With regard to its NIOX also potentially lead to product liability claims being raised against the franchise, the NIOX VERO has been launched Group as the developer of the products and sponsor of the relevant in Europe, in the US, Japan and China.
This device offers advantages clinical trials.
over the NIOX MINO in terms of portability, enhanced life, and better interface.
Mitigating activities The Group conducts extensive pre-clinical and clinical trials which With respect to the Respiratory franchise, the Groups agreement test for and identify adverse side effects of its novel drug candidates.
with Mylan contains provisions which offer remedies in the event Its medical diagnostic products are subject to rigorous testing that insufficient diligence is applied to the marketing of its Flixotide procedures.
A robust pharmacovigilance plan is in place to ensure substitute.
A joint steering committee oversees this project.
any safety issues are identified and reported.
A Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy REMS has also been developed to ensure that Compliance with healthcare regulations the benefits of its cat allergy product are balanced against any risks.
The Group must comply with complex regulations in relation to the Insurance is in place to cover product liability claims which may arise marketing of its device products and in the future will need to comply during the conduct of clinical trials or sales of the Groups NIOX MINO with such regulations in relation to its drug products once approved.
These regulations are strictly enforced.
Failure by the Group or its commercial partners to comply with the US False Claims Act, AntiCommercial success Kickback Statute and the US Foreign and Corrupt Practices Act The Group may not be able to sell its products profitably if and regulations relating to data privacy amongst others and similar reimbursement from third party payers such as private health insurers legislation in countries outside the US may result in criminal and civil and government health authorities is restricted or not available because proceedings against the Group.
for example it proves difficult to build a strong enough economic Mitigating activities case based on the burden of illness and population impact.
Third The Group has strengthened its internal Compliance function in party payers are increasingly attempting to curtail healthcare costs by the course of the year, by appointing an experienced compliance challenging the prices that are charged for pharmaceutical products professional as VP, Global Compliance Officer.
The Global Compliance and denying or limiting coverage and the level of reimbursement.
Officer reports to the General Counsel but also has a direct reporting Moreover, even if the products can be sold profitably, they may not line to the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
A Compliance be accepted by patients and the medical community.
Committee has been formed to oversee activities in this area.
The Alternatively, the Groups competitors many of whom have Compliance function works with a network of external advisers in the considerably greater financial and human resources may develop relevant territories to ensure the appropriate regulations are understood safer or more effective products or be able to compete more effectively and that strategies are in place to support products in development in the markets targeted by the Group.
New companies may enter these and those already approved and sold.
Robust processes are in place markets and novel products and technologies may become available to ensure that sales compliance requirements are met and any failures or allegations of failure are swiftly investigated.
This includes training of which are more commercially successful than those being developed employees and audits of distributors and suppliers.
The Groups NIOX MINO and NIOX VERO devices compete with Supply Chain products made by Bedfont Limited and Medisoft SA.
Neither of these The Group relies on third party contractors for the supply of key competing products are currently available in the US.
Outside the US materials and services.
Problems at these contractors, such as and Germany the Group relies on distributors to sell its NIOX devices technical issues, contamination, and regulatory actions may lead to and such relationships must be carefully managed in order to ensure delays or even loss of supply or inadequate supply of these materials the services provided are of a sufficiently high quality.
and services either prior to launch or thereafter.
Some materials The successful commercialisation of the Groups fluticasone may only be available from one source, as is currently the case for propionate will, when launched, be largely dependent upon its partner the peptides contained in the Groups cat allergy treatment, and the Mylan which has the exclusive rights to sell the product in most major sensors for the NIOX MINO and NIOX VERO devices, and regulatory markets.
Moreover, this product and certain other drug products being requirements may make substitution costly and time-consuming, developed by the Group for treatment of asthma, such as its Seretide particularly where the product is regulated as a biologic as is the substitute, are generic products and so will compete with the innovator case for the Groups allergy products in the US.
products as well as potentially generics from other third parties.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 35 Risks and risk management continued Mitigating activities Mitigating activities Audits of sub-contractors are routinely conducted according to Important products are covered by more than one patent family and procedures set out in the Groups Quality system.
Dual sourcing is attacks on patents are defended using expert external patent attorneys being investigated where this is practicable.
Manufacturing sites are and lawyers.
A robust system is in place which ensures patents are well established FDA-approved facilities.
Third party patent filings are monitored to ensure the Group continues to have freedom to operate and oppositions are Research and development risks filed where this is considered expedient.
Confidential information both The Group may not be successful in its efforts to use and expand its of the Group and belonging to third parties is protected through use allergy technology platform to build a pipeline of allergy products or its of confidential disclosure agreements with third parties, and suitable particle engineering technology to successfully develop a pipeline of provisions relating to confidentiality and intellectual property exist in the respiratory products.
This would have a material impact on the long Groups employment contracts.
Licences are monitored for compliance term success of the business.
Failure of programs could result from with their terms.
lack of internal resources or capabilities, or from not obtaining the At the beginning of the year there were four oppositions pending desired pre-clinical and clinical results.
against the Groups allergy patents three relating to its cat allergy treatment patents and one relating to the patent protecting the Groups In addition, the Group is dependent upon external collaborators for treatment for Ragweed allergy.
the development of certain of its products.
The Group relies upon its collaborations with Panasonic for the development of the NIOX A favourable result had been obtained in the opposition against the devices and upon ITG for the development of the sensors contained patent protecting the Groups Ragweed allergy treatment opposition in those devices.
in December 2014 with the patent upheld.
This was confirmed by a written decision issued in February 2015 and no appeal was filed by Mitigating activities the opponent.
The Group has recruited highly experienced R&D executives.
Projects are closely monitored against goals and regularly reported to the Senior The opposition proceedings against the patent which covers the Management Team and the Board, and external resources are retained active constituents of the Groups cat allergy treatment concluded in where this is deemed appropriate.
The development collaboration with October 2015 with the opponents arguments being rejected and the Panasonic is managed by a steering committee with representatives patent being upheld.
It has now been confirmed that the opponent from the Group.
In addition, the Group will seek, through business will not be appealing the decision.
A second opposition against a development activity, to identify opportunities which would expand patent protecting the formulation of the cat allergy treatment was also and diversify its portfolio.
successfully brought to a close in October with the patent upheld.
Again it has been confirmed there will be no appeal by the opponent.
Intellectual property, know how, and trade secrets There is a third opposition still pending, against a second formulation The Group may be subject to challenges relating to the validity of its patent covering the Groups cat allergy treatment.
If these challenges are successful then the Group may be in this matter took place in December 2015 and the decision was in exposed to generic competition.
One of the Groups granted European the Groups favour.
The Group is now waiting for confirmation as to patents relevant to its cat allergy treatment is currently the subject of whether the opponent will appeal this outcome.
opposition appeal proceedings at the European Patent Office.
If the opponents are successful then the patent protection for its cat allergy Organisational capabilities and capacity treatment in Europe will be reduced.
The Group may be unable to successfully implement its plans for Alternatively, the Group may be sued for infringement of third party growth if it does not attract and retain employees with the requisite patent rights.
If these actions are successful then it would have to pay capabilities and experience, in appropriate numbers.
More particularly, substantial damages and potentially remove its products from the the rapid development which is envisaged may place unsupportable market.
Such litigation, particularly in the US, involves significant costs demands on the Groups current managers and employees, and uncertainties.
particularly if it cannot attract sufficient new employees.
The Group depends on the skills and experience of its current management team It is possible that the Group will not be able to secure intellectual and employees, and is generally subject to competition for, and may property protection, or sufficient protection, in relation to products fail to retain, skilled personnel.
which are acquired or in development.
Similarly, a failure by the Group to maintain or renew key patents would lead to the loss of such Existing employees, investigators, consultants and commercial protection.
In both cases the potential of the Group to earn revenue partners may engage in misconduct or improper activities, including from its products could be compromised as it would be less difficult non-compliance with regulatory standards and laws.
for third parties to copy the products.
Where the Group acquires complementary technologies, products, or The Group may rely upon know how and trade secrets to protect businesses it may not be able to integrate those acquisitions effectively or its products and maintain a competitive advantage.
This may be realise their expected benefits.
In the second half of 2015 the Group has especially important where patent protection is limited or lacking.
focused on integrating the operations of Aerocrine and Prosonix which it Conversely, the Group may be subject to claims that its employees or acquired on 18 June and 15 June respectively.
agents have wrongfully used or disclosed the confidential information The Group may be vulnerable to disruption and damage as a result of of third parties which could lead to damages or injunctions which affect failures of its computer systems.
The Group licenses certain intellectual property rights from third parties.
If the Group fails to comply with its obligations under these agreements it may enable the other party to terminate the agreement.
This could impair the Groups freedom to operate and potentially lead to third parties preventing it from selling certain of its products.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 36 Mitigating activities Viability Statement The Group has budgeted for substantial growth in headcount over The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three the next three years.
The management team has already been year period to 31 December 2018, taking account of the Groups strengthened in the course of 2015 by the recruitment of a Chief current position and the potential impact of the principal risks identified Business Officer.
Remuneration packages are competitive, and above.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable incentive plans based on the contingent award of shares, are in place expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and to attract, motivate and retain staff.
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2018.
Disciplinary and whistleblowing policies exist to address misconduct In making this statement, the Directors have considered the robustness by employees and officers, and committee structures have been of the Group, taking account of its current position, potential future established with the Contract Research Organisations instructed by developments, the principal risks facing it, and the effectiveness of the Group, to monitor and manage the conduct of the Groups clinical mitigation plans and controls.
Their assessment has encompassed the trials.
To address IT risks, a disaster recovery plan has been developed.
potential impact of significant credible scenarios on the business model, Data is backed up daily on off-site servers and the Group operates future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period to 31 December from a number of physically separate sites.
The Directors have determined that a three year period is the Free Float appropriate length of time over which to provide its viability statement.
The UK Listing Authority requires listing issuers to maintain at least The Board considers annually, and on a rolling basis, a detailed three 25% free float in their listed shares.
At 29 February 2016 the Company year budget for the Group.
This is limited to three years given the had a free float of approximately 18%.
If the level of free float cannot nature of the business and uncertainty.
This is built from the bottom be increased to 25% then the UKLA can require the Company to delist up and is stress tested for the following key scenarios: from the Official List.
This would adversely affect the ability of new and existing shareholders to buy Ordinary shares and of holders to sell them.
Cat trial results negative with read across remaining allergy programmes.
In this scenario, expenditure on the allergy Mitigating activities programme was re-prioritised in favour of the respiratory and The Company will keep the free float under review, and if it remains NIOX programmes below 25% will: i discuss with Shareholders who own more than Reasonable delays in key product launches 5% of the issue share capital of the Company whether any of their NIOX sales growth targets missed holdings can be disaggregated because decisions are being taken by independent investment managers within that Shareholders In each case, the mitigating actions were robust enough to organisation: ii discuss with such Shareholders the prospect of ensure the solvency and liquidity of the Group through to at least reducing their holding below 5%: iii seek a derogation from the 31 December 2018.
UKLA while such measures are being implemented.
The budget was approved by the Board at its December 2015 meeting.
Financial Operations The Directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial The Group has incurred significant losses since the inception of its various statements on the going concern basis, as explained in the Basis of businesses including those of its recently acquired companies Aerocrine Preparation paragraph in note 1 to the accounts.
and Prosonix and anticipates that it will continue to do so, at least until it is able to launch its allergy products.
The Strategic report on pages 01 to 37 has been approved Foreign exchange fluctuations may adversely affect the Groups by the Board.
The Group records its transactions and Steven Harris prepares its financial statements in pounds sterling, but a significant Chief Executive Officer proportion of its expenditure is in US dollars, Swedish krona, Canadian dollars, Swiss Francs, or Euros.
11 March 2016 Adverse decisions of regulators, including tax authorities, or changes in tax treaties, laws, or the interpretation of those laws, could reduce or eliminate research and development tax credits which the Group, and its joint venture Adiga Life Sciences Inc. currently receive in the United Kingdom and Canada respectively.
Mitigating activities The Group has prepared a detailed forecast for the next 10 years and, if it achieves its objectives, this shows that the current business plan is sufficient to take the Group through to profitability.
Forward purchases of foreign currencies are made when exchange rates are favourable to provide for expenditure in those currencies.
Markets are constantly monitored and an external commentary is provided by Investec on a daily basis.
If tax credits are lost in the future then action would be taken to reduce discretionary expenditure in order to ensure there remained sufficient cash to support the business through to profitability.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 37
