STRATEGIC REPORT Principal Risks and Uncertainties Operating as a cinema chain across nine different territories presents a number of risks and uncertainties that continue to be the focus of the Boards ongoing attention.
Cineworlds approach to risk management and internal control Principal Risks Summary is designed to manage risk.
Therefore, where possible, the Group have implemented mitigation strategies to reduce the 1.
Technology and Data No significant change tu overall risk exposure in line with the Boards risk appetite.
A vailability and Performance Decrease q of Film Content Risk management has continued to evolve across the Group, 3.
Expansion and Growth No significant change tu building on the introduction of a revised Risk Management of Our Cinema Estate Framework in 2014.
The 2015 focus has been on embedding, through training and communication, the Cineworld approach 4.
Viewer Experience No significant change tu into the culture and behaviour of how the Group operates to andCompetition ensure risk is considered at all levels.
Revenue from Retail No significant change tu Concession Offerings This has been supported by a programme of on-going monitoring and reporting that has been undertaken to ensure 6.
Cinema operations New for 2015 the risk profile remains up-to-date, reflecting the current risk 7.
Regulatory Breach No significant change tu exposure and driving control improvement activity.
Strategy and Performance New for 2015 The Board has developed risk appetite statements against 9.
R etention and Attraction No significant change tu each of the principal risks, clearly setting out the Boards ofSenior Management perspective on its willingness to accept risk in pursuit of the andKey Employees strategic objectives of the Group.
Full details of our risk work 10.
G overnance and New for 2015 are set out on page 47.
InternalControl In addition, the Directors viability assessment has taken into 11.
Terrorism and Civil Unrest Increase p consideration the potential impacts of the principal risks in the business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity The Groups principal risks are identified below, together with: over the period, including principal mitigating actions such as a description of the risk and its potential impact: reducing capital expenditure.
More details about our viability examples of the current controls and mitigation: assessment may be found on page 50. a summary of developments in the year: an indication of the direction of travel of the risk The Board considers it has undertaken a robust assessment exposure:and of the principal risks facing the Group during the year, an indication of the link to the Groups strategic objectives including those that would threaten its business model, future as set out on pages 14 and 15. performance, solvency and liquidity.
The horizon time-frame for consideration of the principal risks is aligned to the 3 year period used when considering the future viability of the Group please see the Groups viability statement on page 40.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 22 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 1 Technology and Data Control Owner: Deputy CEO Description and Impact The Group continues to grow in its reliance on IT systems and data.
From online ticket sales to managing financial information and everything in between, the Group is reliant on its IT systems remaining operational and secure.
Therefore, any critical system interruption for a sustained period could have a significant impact on the Groups performance.
In addition, any breach cyber or otherwise of data protection rules or security measures surrounding the storage of confidential and proprietary information including movie content could result in unauthorised access, loss or disclosure of this information.
This would then lead to claims, regulatory penalties, disruption of operations of the Group and ultimately reputational damage.
Example Controls and Mitigation The Group IT function monitors, manages and optimises our systems, including ensuring their resilience through regular back-ups and implementing security measures.
Additional external experts are employed where necessary to oversee, and help manage, major projects involving the upgrading or replacement of key systems.
The Group continually reviews its approach to information security, specifically controlling the sensitive data it holds through restricted access.
A specific focus is on being fully compliant with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards.
Risk Trend No significant change tu Commentary and Rationale for Trend The increase in global criminal cyber activity and the on-going implementation of a number of new IT systems across the Group has meant the Board focus in this area continues to remain high.
Strategic Relevance: 4,5 2 Availability and Performance of Film Content Owner: Senior Vice President Commercial Description and Impact Underpinning the overall success of the Group is the quality of the distributors film slates, the timeliness of their release andthe appeal of such films to our customers.
Where the film distributors do not produce the level of expected films, or films underperform, this has a direct impact on cinema attendance and, therefore, the principal box office revenue for the Group may decline.
Economic factors in terms of the availability of capital for financing film productions can also have an impact on the supply of films and or their production.
Example Controls and Mitigation We work closely with the film distributors to understand as early as possible the upcoming film slate and, therefore, forecast likely film performance.
Although access to the latest Hollywood film slate is reliant on our partnership with the large film distributors, the Cineworld Group strategy is to have access to a wide range of films over and above the traditional Hollywood blockbusters.
This allows us to reduce our overall exposure to reduced attendance by meeting specific local area demand for type and content of films shown.
The operating flexibility of having digital projection technology available in all our cinemas continues to be a key strategy that has enhanced the capacity utilisation of the Group.
Digital film content can be easily moved to and from auditoriums in our cinemas to maximise admissions.
Risk Trend Decrease q Commentary and Rationale for Trend The film slate in the year was strong with a number of Hollywood blockbusters exceeding expectations.
In addition, in certain territories, local films continue to be popular and account for a greater percentage of annual admissions please see Market Overview on page 10.
The overall film slate for 2016 looks solid please see the CEO and Chairman statements on page 6 and8.
Strategic Relevance 1,4 | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 23 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued 3 Expansion and Growth of Our Cinema Estate Owner: CEO Description and Impact Our estate growth is dependent on our ability to effectively expand operations through the development of new sites or acquiring existing cinemas.
Planning laws, the economic environment, availability of capital for developers and location choice are some of the factors that may impact the Groups development and growth initiatives.
This is particularly heightened if the Group continues to expand in emerging markets as the risk of doing business in these regions is higher.
Example Controls and Mitigation The Group devotes a considerable amount of time assessing new site opportunities and this, along with further acquisitions, is akey part of our future growth strategy.
We also focus a significant amount of time and effort on maintaining good relationships with potential key partners.
This allows us to be aware of the availability of space in new developments and to ensure factors such as local planning laws and demographic changes are continually understood and monitored.
Board approval is obtained for all new sites and significant refurbishments.
Risk Trend No significant change tu Commentary and Rationale for Trend The Group continues to grow the cinema estate with a record 18 new cinemas UK 10 and CCE&I 8 opened in the year.
Afurther 45 development sites are contractually scheduled to open in the next 4 years, 13 of which are scheduled for 2016, withnine already under construction please see CEO statement on page 8.
Strategic Relevance 2,3, 4,5 4 Viewer Experience and Competition Owner: CEO Description and Impact Although cinema admissions are predominantly driven by the quality and availability of movie product, ensuring that the Group continually aims to enhance the viewer experience through the quality of the products and services offered is also key to our focus of being the cinema of choice.
Any decrease in the quality of the services we offer, from the ease of booking, the technology we use, to a friendly farewell on departure, could result in loss of our customers to competitors and or other leisure entertainment attractions.
Furthermore, the continuing development of existing and new technology such as 3D television and internet streaming is also introducing increasing competitive forces as they offer alternative ways to release films.
Example Controls and Mitigation Our strategy is focused on continually improving the quality of services we offer to customers.
This includes enhancing ourapproach to online booking, removing clutter from our foyers, investing in technical innovation and premium offerings 4DX andother large screen formats, upgrading our seating options and improving our retail offers.
The customer interaction with theGroup outside of the cinema environment is also important.
We have continued to enhance our subscription and membershipprograms to offer added value though offers and information.
Risk Trend No significant change tu Commentary and Rationale for Trend The Group continued to invest during the year in enhancing the existing estate, ensuring that the cinemas have the latest technology for example, 4DX and IMAX and provide an environment that allows the viewer to have the best possible experience.
The significant investment in training and development during the year has been rewarded as the Group were rankedtop for customer service in the annual survey carried out by the Institute of Customer Service please see Chairmans statement on page 6.
Strategic Relevance 1, 3, 4, 5 | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 24 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 5 Revenue from Retail Concession Offerings Owner: Senior Vice President Commercial Description and Impact Retail concession sales generally fluctuate in line with admissions, therefore, if admissions were to fall, revenue from retail sales could decrease.
Retail spend may also decrease due to changes in customer preferences, decreased disposable income or other economic and cultural factors.
In addition, the price of items such as energy and foodstuffs has a direct impact on costs.
The ability of the Group to understand and react quickly to the changing customer need is a key part to maintaining and increasing this revenue effectively.
Example Controls and Mitigation A key strategy for the Group is to maintain a strong relationship with our principal retail suppliers as this allows us to work with them to enhance our ability to continually run targeted promotions as well as bringing in differing ranges of products to meet changing customer demand.
The introduction of using franchising models for some of our key suppliers has also been a key wayof enhancing our range of offerings.
Risk Trend No significant change tu Commentary and Rationale for Trend The retail spend per customer has continued to increase with a 6.6% rise in 2015.
Key developments in the year based on our response to customer preferences have been the introduction of Starbucks into a further seventeen sites and also the launch ofthe first UK VIP experience please see Strategy and KPIs on page 14.
Strategic Relevance 1,5 6 Cinema operations NEW FOR 2015 Owner: CEO Description and Impact Operating our cinemas well is pivotal to the overall success of the Group.
Key to this, is to ensure that management understand their local market film scheduling, pricing and retail offerings, effectively manage their employees, maintain service standards, and are able to react to incidents should they occur.
A reduction in performance in any area, can have a direct effect on the overall viewer experience, reputation of the cinemas and ultimately the Groups financial performance.
Example Controls and Mitigation Cinema management continually monitor their staffing requirements, making adjustments to scheduling based on customer demand, forecasts and film scheduling.
On a monthly basis detailed operational and financial reviews are undertaken by cinema management teams to ensure performance matches expected targets.
Risk Trend New for 2015 Commentary and Rationale for Trend Cinema operational and financial performance continues to be improved across the Group driven by a combination of savings on some direct cost lines during 2015 and our continual investment in learning and development programmes that increases the experience and expertise of our cinema management teams.
The re-fresh of the Groups risk profile as a result of the introduction of the new Risk Management Framework resulted in the escalation of this risk to a principal risk.
Strategic Relevance 1,5 | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 25 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued 7 Regulatory Breach Owner: Deputy CEO Description and Impact The Groups business and operations are affected by regulations covering such matters as planning, the environment, health andsafety cinemas and construction sites, licensing, food and drink retailing, data protection and the minimum wage.
Failure to ensure ongoing compliance with regulation legislation could result in fines and or suspension of the activity or in very extreme circumstances entire business operation.
Example Controls and Mitigation Management operate an ongoing cinema compliance programme which is then supplemented by a programme of independent assurance reviews and support from external advisers where appropriate on compliance verification.
Our Group support functions use a combination of ongoing staff development as well as updates from professional advisers to ensure the Group isaware of the latest regulations in key areas.
Risk Trend No significant change tu Commentary and Rationale for Trend The results of our cinema compliance programmes, health and safety assessments, and wider assurance activity continue to indicate no significant increase in risk exposure with standards in all areas remaining high please see Resources and Relationships on page 20.
Strategic Relevance 1,2, 3,5 8 Strategy and Performance NEW FOR 2015 Owner: Deputy CEO Description and Impact Even with the relative simplicity of the Cineworld business, delivery of our long-term objectives requires effective setting, communicating, monitoring and executing a clear strategy.
Example Controls and Mitigation A Governance structure is in place that supports effective strategy development as well as on-going reporting and monitoring ofbusiness performance on a daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual basis.
There are various communication strategies emails, meetings and conferences used to ensure the strategic goals of the Group are clearly understood and executed by Senior Management.
Risk Trend New for 2015 Commentary and Rationale for Trend The delivery of this years annual conference provided the platform to re-confirm the Groups strategy with senior management, and ensure a clear understanding of execution strategies.
The re-fresh of the Groups risk profile as a result of the introduction ofthe new Risk Management Framework resulted in the escalation of this risk to a principal risk.
Strategic Relevance 1,2, 3,4, 5 | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 26 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 9 Retention and Attraction of Senior Management and Key Employees Owner: Deputy CEO Description and Impact The Groups performance and its ability to mitigate significant risks within its control depend on its employees and management teams.
Therefore, reliance is placed on the Groups ability to recruit, develop and retain senior management and other key employees.
If the Group loses key people this is likely to have a direct impact on its ability to deliver business objectives.
Example Controls and Mitigation The Group uses a variety of techniques to attract, retain and motivate its staff, with particular attention on those in key roles to help ensure the long-term success of the Group.
These techniques include the regular review of remuneration packages, share incentive schemes, training, regular communication with staff and an annual performance review process.
As an overall approach we focus on internal promotion where possible.
Where employees have the right mix of skills and experience there are many ways for them to further their career within the Group.
Risk Trend No significant change tu Commentary and Rationale for Trend The Group has made further investment in pay and benefits, especially for our front of house teams.
There has also been a continued focus on internal succession through the further development and initiation of a number of learning and development programmes, and the delivery of the talent development review process please see Resources and Relationship on pages 20 to 21.
Strategic Relevance 1,2, 3,4, 5 10 Governance and Internal Control NEW FOR 2015 Owner: Deputy CEO Description and Impact Maintaining corporate governance standards and an effective and efficient risk management and internal control system proportionate to the needs of the Group is a key part of our short and long term success.
Any systematic failure and or weaknesses in this environment financial and non-financial could have a fundamental and direct impact on the efficient andeffective operations of the Group.
Example Controls and Mitigation The Group uses various mechanisms to support the implementation and monitor the effectiveness of controls.
These include: Implementation of the Group Risk Management Framework: Ongoing self assessment process for monitoring cinema compliance and financial control standards: Work of internal auditors: Regular consultation and advice from external advisers: A risk based cinema compliance and financial control audit programme: The delivery of targeted risk based internal audit reviews: and The use of technology for live forensic monitoring.
Risk Trend New for 2015 Commentary and Rationale for Trend Continued evolution of the Groups risk management programme, and the delivery of supporting assurance programmes, isproviding on-going improvements to the overall system of internal control please see Corporate Governance report page 39.
The appointment of two new independent Non-Executive Directors and therefore changes in the Board and Committee composition in the year has meant a new Senior Independent Director, Audit Committee Chair and Remuneration Committee Chair please see Chairmans statement page 6.
The re-fresh of the Groups risk profile as a result of the introduction of the newRisk Management Framework resulted in the escalation of this risk to a principal risk.
Strategic Relevance 1,2, 3,4, 5 | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 27 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued 11 Terrorism and Civil Unrest Owner: CEO Description and Impact Cinema businesses could be affected by civil unrest or terrorist acts threats, resulting in the public avoiding going to the cinemas.
This could be due to incidents in the locations in which the Group operates, such as Israel or in other areas, that increase general unease in the locations in which it operates.
The Group may additionally be subject to an increased risk of boycott, targeted civil unrest or terrorist action threat as a result of operating in and being linked to certain countries or types of film.
This could adversely impact the results of operations and the financial performance of the Group.
Example Controls and Mitigation We receive communications from relevant government authorities and law enforcement agencies which keep us informed and allow us, when needed, to monitor any potential impact external events could have on the security of our cinema estate.
Business continuity and disaster recovery plans are in place to ensure that we can react appropriately should an incident occur at a Group site and appropriate insurance is in place to mitigate the financial consequences.
Risk Trend Increase p Commentary and Rationale for Trend The increase in acts of terrorism across the globe has increased the likelihood of a potential incident occurring at a cinema.
Strategic relevance 1,5 Removed Risks The update of the Groups risk profile as a result of the introduction of the new Risk Management Framework resulted in the removal of the following from the set of risks disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts: Integration of the Enlarged Cineworld Group This is no longer applicable given the time period since the acquisition andthe integration work that has been completed.
Film Piracy This is included within risks 6 cinema operations and 7 regulatory breach and therefore not specifically required as a principal risk in its own right.
Extreme weather conditions This is no longer considered a Principal Risk for the Group.
Consideration of the impact ofweather is managed at an operational level on a cinema by cinema basis.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 28
