Strategic report Risk management As the worlds leading provider of integrated shipping Our robust risk management assessment process is services, we have a clear strategy to maintain and extend dynamic, incorporating changes in our strategies and our industry leadership.
It is imperative that the integrity the external risk drivers in the global market in which we and reputation of the Clarksons brand is preserved through operate.
It continues to be enhanced and developed to effective risk management, which underpins the successful ensure it meets the needs of the group.
The breadth of products and services that we offer to our clients all over the world span Viability statement the maritime and financial markets and has the potential to expose us to a number of business specific risks.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, the board has assessed the prospects of the group over a longer period than Details of the board and audit committees responsibilities the 12 months that has been the focus of the going concern provision.
In carrying out their assessment, the directors have considered the resilience Risk management approach of the group with reference to its current position, prospects and strategy, the boards risk appetite and the groups principal risks and the effectiveness Managing risk to deliver opportunities is a key element of of mitigating actions.
This robust assessment considers the potential impact the companys business activities, and is undertaken using a of the groups principal risks on its strategy, business model, future practical and flexible framework which provides a consistent operational and financial performance, solvency and liquidity over the period.
and sustained approach to risk evaluation.
Our risk assessment is formed in stages: In determining the period over which to provide its viability statement, the board took into consideration revenues, cash flows, funding requirements, 1.
Identify the risks facing the group, analysed by profits, long-term time charters, the average construction period of business sector: newbuilding contracts, triennial valuations of pension schemes and the 2.
Assess the likelihood of each risk: majority of the forward order book.
The board concluded that a period 3.
Evaluate the impact on the group over different aspects of three years was appropriate.
of the business: Based on their assessment of prospects and viability, the directors confirm 4.
Determine the strength and adequacy of the controls that they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to operating over the risk: continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three 5.
Assess the effect of any mitigating procedures: year period ending 31 December 2018.
Our objective is to maintain an embedded control Going concern approach which is instilled in our employees from induction.
The directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial This is done through an integration of culture and statements on the going concern basis, as explained in note 2.1. compliance where our objectives and values are clearly communicated and our training, systems, processes and internal controls are developed in accordance with our risk Review of principal risks management model.
The following risks are not exhaustive, but rather a summary of those principal risks which have the potential to materially affect the achievement of the groups strategic objectives and impact its financial performance, reputation Please see our audit committee report on pages 58 to 59 for more information and brand integrity.
Principal risk How we manage risk Commentary Strategic Our priority is to ensure strategic decisions achieve our objectives Failure to achieve Our decisions are founded on experience, The strategic moves we have made have been strategic objectives due diligence and external expert advisors into core business areas where we have a good level where necessary.
of understanding and built up knowledge.
The Platou acquisition was a transformational deal, a unique opportunity to combine two leading businesses, generating significant organic revenue and margin growth potential and creating shareholder value over the medium-term.
Our strong balance sheet ensures we are well placed to make further investments as and when they arise.
32 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Principal risk How we manage risk Commentary Reputational We remain focused on maintaining and constantly strengthening our relationships with stakeholders Negative perception Our commitment to training and an ethical work The group has built an enviable reputation over the of the group as a result environment continues to promote high standards, past 164 years, and the protection of the Clarksons of employee conduct consistency and a unified approach.
name is fundamental to our position as a market leader.
Investment in compliance, quality assurance and No events arose during the year which adversely legal functions act to ensure that best practices affected the reputation of the group.
are applied throughout the group.
Operational Our reputation is built on strong execution of service Loss of regulatory licence Suitably trained and qualified management The proportion of the business covered by regulation across all regulated businesses are supported by has increased and we have entered new jurisdictions compliance officers in London, New York and Oslo.
in our regulatory reporting requirements.
Additionally we have an internal audit function for All licences were maintained throughout the year.
our securities business in Norway.
External advisors are regularly consulted.
Financial loss or The groups IT processes include penetration Continued investment in physical controls and operational disruption testing, a variety of security access controls and increased awareness through regular internal caused by a cyber event business continuity planning.
communications has enabled us to identify and avoid actual cyber events.
We have identified a number of attempts to access or compromise our systems during the year.
None of these attempts have been successful.
Challenging market We are well diversified in the breadth of our global Our results show the effectiveness of our strategy conditions offering across multi-cyclical shipping markets and business model against a backdrop of volatility putting us in the best possible position to mitigate in our markets, particularly those affected by falling downturns in specific markets.
People Our people are the assets of our business and are essential to our success Loss of key personnel Competitive remuneration, extensive tools for Our relative position in volatile markets and overall trade, a good working environment and good career trading performance makes us appealing as an employer.
opportunities help us to retain staff.
Teamwork Following the integration of the two businesses, on deals is actively encouraged.
significant synergies have been achieved.
No key Cross-training, succession planning and members of staff left to join a competitor and we documentation of key procedures is carried continue to make significant hires.
out to minimise the impact of losing personnel.
Financial We seek to maintain the strength of our balance sheet and results Adverse movements in The group has policies for hedging currency During the year, the group has applied its hedging foreign exchange rates exposures, including forward sale of US dollar policy consistently.
Details of the outstanding forward revenues.
We also sell US dollars on the spot contracts is given in note 26. market to meet local currency expenditure.
We continually assess rates of exchange, non-sterling balances and asset exposures by currency.
Adverse financial All defined benefit schemes are closed to new entrants.
The group has three defined benefit schemes.
commitments relating We have in-house and outsourced global pension Full details of the position at the year-end are set to pensions experts to help manage the schemes in place, out in note 22. including monitoring fund manager performance.
Diversification of the investment funds which hold our schemes assets reduces the impact of fund performance volatility.
Regular review of pension fund liability to ensure any deficit is appropriately forecast and future funding requirements can be planned.
Financial loss arising We regularly monitor both local and global client There were no unexpected losses arising from from a failure of a client debt levels using information from a range of sources.
a client failure during the year.
to meet its obligations The trade receivables at the year-end relate to a considerable number of clients, with limited concentration of exposure to the group.
