Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE THE BOARD INTEGRAL STEN MORTSTEDT EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN GOVERNANCE IS AN 3 other Executive Directors 4 Independent Non-Executive Directors 4 other Non-Executive Directors PART OF THE WAY WE MANAGE OUR BUSINESS Ensuring company growth and shareholder value AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors The Board has overall responsibility for corporate governance and is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance.
Monitors the arrangements for corporate reporting, Develops the Companys policies on executive We are committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance which best fit the Group.
Your Board recognises that risk management and internal controls remuneration and sets the remuneration packages through an effective structure of systems and controls which defines authority and accountability throughout the Group, risks are of individual Executive Directors Maintains a direct relationship with the external auditor appropriately managed and controlled whilst still promoting entrepreneurial behaviour and ensuring a successful business.
Corporate Governance is a key driver to the success of a listed company, but no two businesses are the same and no two boards are EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE the same.
Whilst some might say that the Chairman of a listed company should not hold executive powers, and be independent upon appointment, as Executive Chairman and founding shareholder my interests are strongly aligned with all other stakeholders, Reviews the daily running of the Groups business which helps to ensure that the Group succeeds in its business strategy and continues to look to the future with optimism.
As part of our commitment to achieving high standards of corporate governance we strengthened the composition of the Audit ASSET MANAGEMENT HEALTH & SAFETY and Remuneration committees by the appointment of a third independent non-executive director to each committee, thereby INVESTMENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEES COMMITTEE complying with the Codes requirements for FTSE 350 companies.
Analyses financial investment opportunities Reviews the Groups property Reviews and moderates the Groups policy During the year, Anna Seeley was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director and, from 8 March 2016, to Non-Executive and reviews investment portfolios investments in each country and best practices for Health and Safety Vice Chairman.
As my daughter, she will represent the familys interest in the Group.
She is also a Chartered Surveyor with considerable property experience and understands CLS well, having worked for the Group from 2001 to 2003.
I am confident that she will make a valuable contribution to Board discussions.
LEADERSHIP It continues to be my belief that an effective Board should include members who have a detailed knowledge of the Companys The Board, its composition and responsibilities business and its relationships, so that there can be effective challenge and searching questions asked of the Executive Directors.
We recognise that the composition of our Board is not aligned to the Codes requirement in this regard.
However, from a governance The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
Matters reserved for Board decisions include identifying strategic perspective, I consider the balance between non-executives and independent non-executives to have been one of our key strengths long-term objectives, approving the annual Group budget, and approving substantial property transactions and investment decisions over 5 million.
and is underlined by the Groups performance since listing in 1994.
I thank our long-term shareholders for sharing this view.
The implementation of Board decisions and the day-to-day operations of the Group are delegated to the Executive Directors.
Sten Mortstedt EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN STEN MORTSTEDT Proposing the overall strategy of the Group and ensuring the effective running Executive Chairman HENRY KLOTZ of the Board EXECUTIVE VICE HENRY KLOTZ Supporting the Executive Chairman with developing Group strategy, and for CHAIRMAN overseeing the operation of the Group as a whole NON-EXECUTIVE ANNA SEELEY Supporting the Executive Chairman with developing Group strategy and managing COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE The Company became a constituent of the FTSE 350 index on VICE CHAIRMAN the effective running of the Board 22 December 2014.
The Code contains a number of additional The principal corporate governance rules which applied to the requirements applicable to FTSE 350 companies on which we are Company in the year under review were those set out in the UK required to report our compliance for the first time in our 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVE FREDRIK WIDLUND Implementing Group strategy and for the day-to-day running of the Group Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting OFFICER Annual Report.
However, in demonstrating its commitment to Council FRC in September 2014 the Code, the UK good corporate governance the Board has already adopted a Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules and the FCAs number of these requirements.
Save as identified and explained Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Board fully supports the CHIEF FINANCIAL JOHN WHITELEY Implementing Group strategy in relation to and ensuring compliance with all below, the Board considers that throughout 2015 it complied with principles of good governance as set out in the Code, which is OFFICER financial matters the Main Principles and the supporting principles as set out in publicly available on the FRCs website www.
SENIOR MALCOLM COOPER Providing another channel of communication for shareholders who do not wish to INDEPENDENT approach the Executive Chairman, Executive Vice Chairman or Chief Executive Officer DIRECTOR Leads the Non-Executive Directors, and provides feedback to the Executive Chairman on his performance NON-EXECUTIVE JOSEPH CRAWLEY Providing independent oversight, objectively challenging the Executive Directors in DIRECTORS ELIZABETH EDWARDS Board discussions and decision-making CHRISTOPHER JARVIS THOMAS LUNDQVIST PHILIP MORTSTEDT ANNA SEELEY LENNART STEN Determined by the Board to be Independent in accordance with Code provision B.
With effect from 8 March 2016 Until 8 March 2016 42 43 s i s Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information a b y l h t n o m a n o d e M r o o t n i i n t o o r M e d o n a q u a r t M e r l y a b a s n i s k a s g CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES OF THE BOARD IN 2015 Insurance Independence The Company has arranged insurance cover for its Directors and Guidance to the Code recommends that for FTSE 350 companies March May August November officers, as set out in the Directors Report on page 40. at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
Key Agenda Items Division of Responsibilities At the year end, the Board comprised four executive directors, Approval of the Year End Approval of the Approval of the Half-Yearly Approval of 2016 Budget and The responsibilities of the Executive Chairman, who is four independent non-executive directors and four other nonFinancial Report and Trading Update Financial Report and Forecasts for 2017 to 2019 responsible for the overall strategy of the Group, the Executive executive directors.
The Company was not compliant, therefore, Accounts 2014, April Tender September Tender Offer Vice Chairman who supports the Executive Chairman, and the with provision B.
However, the Board considers that having a Offer and Notice of AGM Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible for implementing mix of non-executive directors who are either independent as the strategy and for the day-to-day running of the Group, defined by the Code, or have an in-depth knowledge of the Approval of Going Concern Discussion and confirmation Approval of Going Concern Strategy discussion on are specifically divided.
A written statement of the division of Company, provides better oversight and governance than having Statement of Board changes Statement Vauxhall Square and these responsibilities are reviewed and approved by the Board predominantly independent non-executive directors.
2.3, the Board undertook a Reports from: Group Policies update Report from the Audit Reports from: The Company does not comply with provision A.
3.1 of the Code, rigorous review as to whether it considered Malcolm Cooper and Committee on the Audit Committee on Non-Executive Directors as the Executive Chairman was not independent on appointment.
Christopher Jarvis to be independent, having served on the Board Half-Yearly report and Full Year report and Committee providing There have been no significant changes to the commitments of for more than six years.
Based on Mr Coopers current full time feedback from auditors feedback from auditors feedback on Board Evaluation the Executive Chairman during the year.
From 1 January 2016, role with National Grid plc, and Mr Jarviss full time role with the Executive Vice Chairman continued his responsibilities but Jarvis and Partners, together with the amount of time dedicated Remuneration Committee on Audit Committee on the on a part-time basis.
On 8 March 2016 the role of Executive Vice to their roles as a non-executive director and their contributions Bonus plans audit planning process and Chairman reverted to a non-executive role and a revised to the Board in discussions generally, the Board were satisfied audit matters statement was subsequently approved.
that they maintained the necessary levels of independence in addition to the Codes independence criteria.
Keeping the Board updated through presentations Non-Executive Directors In May 2016, Mr Cooper will have served on the Board for more UK Valuers Group Investment Officer on German Valuers French Valuers A formal meeting of the Non-Executives took place during the than nine years.
1.1, and for the reasons corporate bond investments Head of Group Treasury on Head of UK Property on year, without the Executive Directors or the Chairman present, set out above, the Board determined that he continued to and strategy and at which a thorough review of the performance of the current borrowing market strategy for UK assets remain independent.
and trends Executive Chairman took place.
Several meetings with the Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Chairman took place Directors Independence Standing Agenda Items during the year to discuss, amongst other things, the performance of the Groups strategy, the performance of the other Executive Non-Executive Executive Reports covering markets, investments, portfolio developments, financing and operational matters Independent Executive Directors and the performance of the Board as a whole.
33% 33% Corporate Governance, including monitoring of principal risks and uncertainties, internal controls and risk management, Health As highlighted by this years board evaluation, the Board was and Safety and Investor Relations satisfied with the experience, expertise and performance of each board member: they continue to add significant value to the Non-Executive operation of the Company through their combined knowledge Non-Independent and experience, and exercise objectivity in decision-making and Performance Monitoring Meetings 33% proper control of the Companys business.
The attendance of Directors at Board meetings during the year is set out below: EFFECTIVENESS Meeting Attendance during the year Number of meetings Appointments to the Board Tenure of the Board Sten Mortstedt 4 4 Divisional Asset The Board considered the setting up of a separate Nomination Cash Flows Management Henry Klotz 4 4 Committee, as recommended by the Code, but due to the size 9 Years 0 3 Years and nature of the Company, decided that this function was better 2 Fredrik Widlund 4 4 5 carried out by the Executive Chairman and other directors, John Whiteley 4 4 non-executive and executive, as appropriate for each appointment.
PERFORMANCE Given that there is no formal Nomination Committee, the Company Malcolm Cooper 4 4 MONITORING Financial is not compliant with provision B.
6 9 Years Forecasts Joseph Crawley 4 4 Liquid 5 On 11 May 2015, Ms Anna Seeley and Mr Philip Mortstedt were Resources Elizabeth Edwards 4 4 appointed as Non-Executive Directors and Ms Jennica Mortstedt resigned as a Non-Executive Director.
Mr Mortstedt replaced Christopher Jarvis 4 4 Budgets Ms Mortstedt as the representative of Mr Bengt Mortstedt, The biographies of the Directors Thomas Lundqvist 4 4 can be found on pages a founding shareholder who continues to have a major interest 1 in the Group.
No external consultancy or open adverts were Jennica Mortstedt 1 1 38-39 used in the appointments of Ms Seeley or Mr Mortstedt.
2 Philip Mortstedt 3 3 As announced on 11 November 2015, from 1 January 2016, 2 Anna Seeley 3 3 The Board is assisted by the Audit and Remuneration Mr Henry Klotz continued his responsibilities but on a Committees, the Terms of Reference for which can be obtained part-time basis.
Conflicts of Interest Lennart Sten 4 4 from the Company Secretary or the website.
The Companys Articles of Association contain procedures to 1 Resigned on 11 May 2015 deal with Directors conflicts of interest.
The Board considers 2 Appointed on 11 May 2015 that these have operated effectively during the year.
In addition to attending Board meetings, senior management meet regularly to discuss management issues relating to the Group both formally and informally.
