I n t e r n a l & 3 r d E L x i t n e e r n t a l n e A m u d e i g t a n e a n i M L Principal Risks THE EXECUTION OF OUR OBJECTIVES IS SUPPORTED BY AN EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS How we manage risk The Board has delegated responsibility for specialist function or at Group level.
The Groups The Board sets the policy for managing risk in the the detailed monitoring and reviewing of the Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework is business.
It recognises the importance of having effectiveness of the Groups internal control structured to ensure that risks are identified promptly effective processes and procedures for identifying, and risk management systems to the Audit by management teams, to support the achievement actively monitoring, mitigating and managing the Committee.
Assurance over the effectiveness of their strategic objectives and to ensure that they financial and non-financial risks facing the Group.
of these systems is provided by a combination are mitigated and managed appropriately in support of regular management reporting to the Audit of the delivery of the Groups strategic plan.
Risks By regularly reviewing the principal risks reported Committee and, for the Advanced Electronic are categorised in terms of inherent risk before across the Group by businesses and functions, and Solutions Sector, which contains classified US mitigation and current risk after existing mitigation.
satisfying itself that these risks are managed within Defense programs and so operates under a US DoD This allows the Group to identify risks that are heavily the Groups stated risk appetite, the Board ensures Special Security Arrangement SSA, via specific dependent on internal mitigating controls and to that the Groups risk exposure remains appropriate assurances and authorised assurance reports given allocate resources appropriately.
and that this links to the effective delivery of its by representatives of the SSA Board.
CEO and CFO both sit on the Board of the SSA.
The risks identified through this process have been Improvements to the effectiveness of governance captured in a dedicated software system that is The Board has ultimate accountability for the and assurance procedures between the Group and used to track, monitor and document ownership execution of risk management systems and the SSA are continually reviewed.
and management of individual risks.
Data from this internalcontrols, with the Risk Committee, system has been aggregated and themed, reviewed comprising members ofthe Group Executive, The process for monitoring and controlling risk, under the Governance structure outlined above and responsible for overseeing execution of risk illustrated below, emphasises ongoing evaluation has been used as the basis for the Groups principal management throughout the Group.
and monitoring by the management teams at risk disclosure on pages 35 to 37. each appropriate entity level: business unit, Sector, The Group manages risk by operating a three lines of assurance risk and control model.
The first line consists of operational management implementing and maintaining effective internal controls and risk management procedures.
They are supported by a number of Group functions which, together with performance management procedures, form the second line.
Internal audit, which is part of the third line, is empowered to provide an independent assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls guided by the risk appetite and risk management processes and procedures, as well as identifying areas Monitoring Risks & for improvement.
Internal audit primarily reviews & Reporting Actions controls over financial, property management, US Government sensitivity, export compliance and IT risks.
As part of the governance, risk and assurance ERM GRA project it is the intention to expand the scope of assurance to cover a broader range of strategic risks.
The internal audit function reports directly to the Audit Committee to ensure its independence and objectivity.
In addition, the Audit Committee Policy & takes account of the views of the external auditors.
Controls These lines of assurance include the Groups ethicsreporting system, enabling employees to raise concerns over ethics and compliance matters.
This control mechanism highlighted a concern over revenue recognition practices at one of the business units at the year end.
A thorough independent investigation conducted by senior management confirmed that the concerns raised were founded but isolated only to that business and to the 2015 year end.
Misstatements identified have been quantified and corrected within these Cobham plc www.
com Cobham plc 32 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 l t s a V 1 n e o r t i i t c a a r l e p & O H o 2 r n i d z L o i n n t e a l F u n c t i o n s STRATEGIC REPORT Contract risk and effective project financial statements.
Control enhancements are in principles based approach defining what each and programme management the process of being implemented to ensure that meansfor a given risksubcategory.
We describe the risk associated with effective thismatter does not recur.
project and programme management As shown on the risk appetite diagram below, execution on page 36.
Risk appetite typically there is a balanced appetite for taking risk Under the sponsorship of the CFO, the project to across the Operational and Reporting Financial risk Raising standards in project and review the Groups GRA framework has established subcategories the cost of taking the risk is carefully programme management arisk appetite baseline through which Cobhams weighed against the resultant benefits.
Insufficient project and programme riskscan be managed with appropriate controls and management PPM capabilities and Life assurance measures.
The framework builds onbest There is a more assertive appetite for areas of strategic Cycle Management LCM rigour can lead to practice COSO ERM principles see Glossary for risk including the promotion of growth, for example poor programme execution, while excessive definition.
Under these principles, risk events can in business and product portfolios and in the strategic application is wasteful, both from a cost and be categorised under four main headings: Strategic, planning processes.
Operational, Reporting Financial and Compliance.
The Group has broken down these risk categories There is a conservative appetite for Compliance risk.
Cobhams LCM framework risk categorises into a number of subcategories and defined its projects and programmes, both customer and riskappetite for each.
The risk appetite is articulated The Groups controls, mitigation activities and company funded, allowing us to assess the as conservative, balanced or assertive across the associated assurance measures implemented reflect inherent risk in a project or programme and various elements ofthe risk framework, with a the risk appetitefor each position.
How we are managing the risk Increasing risk appetite We are enhancing our PPM capabilities at Conservative Balanced Assertive assessment centres.
Leadership and PPM competencies are assessed against defined professional standards over three days, with Strategic personal development plans created, and Risk further training provided through a virtual training academy.
This allows us to assess individuals suitability to manage different Operational Risk typesand categories of project programme.
Outcomes and lessons learned Financial The priority has been training project and Reporting programme managers who are running our Risk highest risk, customer funded contracts.
This has resulted in an increasing number of individuals Compliance becoming formally qualified following the Risk rigorous training received, benefiting the individual, the customer and Cobham.
The risk appetite position for each principal risk is shown on pages 35 to 37.
com Cobham plc 32 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal Risks continued Significant business interruption risk For our larger manufacturing locations, we have We describe the risk associated with significant anongoing commitment to meet or exceed business interruption on page 37. insurance industry best practice loss prevention guidance.
This includes investing in fixed automatic Minimising the threat of disruption from fire fire protection in areas of significant fire risk.
andnatural catastrophe events The threat of fire causing a significant supply For our smaller locations we focus on implementing chain disruption is inherent in the manufacturing more basic but effective loss prevention programmes environment.
Natural catastrophe risks, such as and incident management plans, withsome flood, earthquake and windstorm, are largely targeted investment in physical protection measures.
Outcomes and lessons learned Both the likelihood and the impact of most We look to continuously improve the standards loss events can be positively impacted through of property loss prevention and BCM across our prudent management activity and loss manufacturing footprint.
These efforts have seen preventionprogrammes.
the majority of our larger manufacturing facilities being recognised as best in class from a property How we are managing the risk loss prevention perspective.
Cobhams Marlow facility in the UK is the latest facility Working in close consultation with our insurers, tobe recognised, by its property damage and business we aim to eliminate or manage inherent fire and It is important that we continue to improve the interruption insurer, FM Global, for its property loss natural catastrophe threats, and to ensure that standards achieved and we use third parties to prevention efforts.
Each facility is assessed against effective business continuity management BCM verify our loss prevention and BCM efforts.
This helps to ensure that the business interruption risks that are inherent in our business are appropriately managed.
Viability Statement Assessing viability Based on the consolidated financial impact of the Assessing the prospects of the Company In making their assessment, the Directors took sensitivity analysis and associated mitigating internal The Directors consider viability as part of their intoaccount the potential impact of the principal controls and risk management actions that are either continuing programme of monitoring and managing risk events identified in the strategic planning now in place, as described in detail for each principal risk.
The Board has concluded that the most process that could prevent the Group from risk on pages 35 to 37, or could be implemented, relevant time period for this review should be three achieving its strategic objectives.
These principal the Directors have been able to conclude that the years, taking account of the diversity in demand risks are described in detail in the Principal Risks Group will be able to operate within its existing bank characteristics of its end markets.
These range from section of this report on pages 35 to 37.
Sensitivity covenants and maintain sufficient bank facilities to relatively long cycle businesses, such as Cobhams analyses were run to model the financial and meet its funding needs over the three-year period.
In Aviation Services and aerial refuelling businesses operational impact of plausible downside scenarios coming to this conclusion, it has been assumed that which both contain predominantly multi-year of these risk events occurring individually or in a successful renewal including the 300m of mixed contracts, to the less predictable, largely commercial, combination.
These included the impacts of a further currency bank facilities is achieved in October 2018. shorter cycle businesses, such as Cobhams SATCOM deterioration in themacroeconomic environment, and Wireless businesses, which typically operate underperformance in executing the Groups strategy Confirmation of longer term viability withan order backlog of a few months or less.
to return to organic revenue growth, failure to derive Based upon the assessment of the principal risks targeted benefits from the Groups operational facing the company and robust downside sensitivity The starting point in assessing the prospects of the and cash generation improvement initiatives, analysis, all of which are described above and on Company and events that may prevent successful underperformance on major contract cost estimates pages 32 to 37, the Directors have a reasonable achievement of these, as required by provision and associated programme management controls, expectation that the Company will be able to C. 2.2of the UK Corporate Governance Code, was the impact of a significant business interruption continue in operation and meet its liabilities as theannual strategic planning process.
A description event and a change in regulations impacting the theyfall due over the period to December 2018. of Cobhams strategic planning process can be Groups internal financing structure.
Consideration foundin the Audit Committee report on page 52. was also given to the plausibility of the occurrence The Groups Going Concern Statement is detailed While this process and associated financial plan ofother individual events that in their own right onpage 31. covers a period of five years, the first three years could have a material impact on the Groups viability.
of the plan are considered to contain all of the key None of these events was considered plausible.
underlying assumptions that will provide the most appropriate information realistically on which to assess the Groups viability.
com Cobham plc 34 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 1.
F ailure to execute strategy, to 3.
Failure to comply with macroeconomic environment deliver performance in line laws and regulations adversely impacting our markets with financial plans supported Risk by effective value creating Cobham operates in a highly regulated environment Risk M&A activity and is subject to the laws, regulations and restrictions The Groups revenue is derived from commercial of many jurisdictions, notably including those of the and global defence security markets.
Risk customer demand is dependent on a complex mix The Groups ability to generate profitable organic of macroeconomic, fiscal, and strategic defence and These include anti-bribery provisions, import and revenue growth consistently is a key strategic security imperatives.
export controls, tax, government contracting rules, objective and driver of value creation.
Insightful, USDoD regulations regarding conduct of business complementary and well executed M&A activity Variations in government customer demand levels or under the Groups SSA, human rights, environmental, in line with the Groups strategic objectives has other external factors resulting from changes in these and health and safety regulation.
macroeconomic factors could lead to programme contract terminations or delays, or changes in market A lack of understanding of legal and regulatory Failure to define and execute the Groups growth growth rates.
restrictions in force in the jurisdictions in which strategy effectively will lead to impaired business it operates could lead to the Group being in performance.
Impact contravention of laws or regulations.
Deterioration in demand affecting shorter cycle Impact businesses or a fundamental shift in how customers Impact Failure to grow leads to an impaired competitive procure products or services could have an adverse Sanctions for failure by the Group, its sales position and can also result in reduced trading effect on the Groups future results leading to: intermediaries, or others acting on its behalf to comply margins and a declining return on invested capital.
Missed growth targets with laws, regulations and restrictions could include Reduced earnings fines, penalties, legal claims, suspension or debarment The Group will experience an impact on employee Failure to win new business, resulting in adverse of the Group from future government contracts recruitment and retention, potential reputational performance against the Groups strategic plan for a period of time, as well as having a potentially damage and a reduced ability to invest for future significant impact on the Groups reputation.
Mitigation sanctions could also have an impact on the Groups A review of near and long term market trends is financial position and future operations.
Mitigation conducted as part of the Groups annual strategic Carry out effective strategic planning maintain planning process to ensure that actual and anticipated Mitigation robust and dynamic processes to ensure the Group impacts from macroeconomic risks are minimised and Cobham employs rigorous procedures to ensure it is exposed to growth markets and creates value managed effectively.
remains in compliance with all legal requirements through business cycles.
and regulations, and continues to drive a culture that Regular reviews of externally sourced market ensures that ethical, environmental, and health and A continued focus on and investment in demanddata, with the re-forecasting and adjustment safety considerations are embodied in all that it does.
programmemanagement to ensure customer of internal planning in line with market demand.
expectations are met, which underpins the Groups Policies and procedures are included in the Groups ability to grow.
Continued appropriate investment Increased emphasis is being placed on identifying corporate framework to ensure all of the Groups in future technologies with alignment to identified adjacent markets in which the Groups proven and compliance requirements are met.
This is regularly market growth areas and customer needs.
transferable technologies can be applied.
reviewed and audited, including procedures related to the use of sales and marketing representatives, A cycle of budgets and forecasts together with The Group has achieved more balance in its portfolio anti-bribery and anti-corruption, gifts and hospitality, tracking of actual performance including reasons towards commercial markets, with the aim to achieve whistleblowing, and investigation of ethics and forvariances against plans.
sustainable growth through economic cycles.
compliance concerns, along with Cobhams Code ofBusiness Conduct.
Rigorous M&A disciplines both preand A culture of continuous improvement will enable post-transaction, aligned with the Groups strategic Cobham to have market leading operating Mandatory training is undertaken by all planning process, improves the ability to successfully performance, while reducing costs.
This will employeesona variety of compliance related execute and deliver value from transactions.
enable Cobham to grow market share and remain subjectsincludingUS Government contracting competitive in the face of volume declines or price andanti-briberyand corruption.
Link to KPIs pressures, and while retaining flexibility to adjust the Organic revenue growth cost base appropriately to changing market conditions.
See the CR&S section on pages 38 to 41 for Underlying EPS growth information on human rights, environmental, Group PV investment Link to KPIs andhealth and safety actions.
Cash conversion Organic revenue growth Return on invested capital Underlying EPS growth Link to KPIs Voluntary staff turnover Cash conversion Underlying EPS growth Return on invested capital Return on invested capital Risk appetite Staff safety Balanced Risk appetite Assertive Risk appetite Risk status indicator Conservative The Groups portfolio is being actively managed Risk status indicator to optimise the total performance in continued Global macroeconomic conditions remain uncertain.
Risk status indicator challenging market conditions.
The regulatory landscape remains broadly unchanged.
However, increased scrutiny in certainareas has been noted.
Unchanged Increasing risk Decreasing risk Emerging new risk Cobham plc www.
com Cobham plc 34 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal Risks continued 4.
Failure to derive targeted benefits 5.
C ontract risk and effective project 6.
F ailure to deliver shareholder value from organisational design within and programme execution from the Aeroflex acquisition an effective governance framework, with appropriate skills and talented employees recruited and retained Risk Risk Risk Key to the execution of the Groups strategic plan The Group designs, develops and delivers products Failure to deliver the planned synergies and growth is the effective implementation and embedding and services that are often customised, utilising from the Aeroflex acquisition, which was completed of the organisation design OD project within an complex technologies, under fixed price contracts in 2014, will have a detrimental impact on the enhanced governance framework.
This project aligns that can be long term in nature.
This gives rise to Groups financial performance and returns.
the Groups management and reporting structures the risks of failure to execute contracts profitably, withthe drive to deliver sustainable growth.
the supply of defective or delayed product, the Impact occurrence of other contractually related liabilities, or The Aeroflex transaction is important to the Failure to deliver the OD project, resulting in the lack damage to reputation and commercial relationships.
achievement of the Groups strategic plan.
of an appropriately skilled and effectively deployed workforce and management team, will see the Impact Failure to deliver the business case will lead to Groups ability to deliver against its strategic plan Failure by Cobham to execute or deliver a project poor financial results and will adversely impact toreturn to growth impaired.
or programme gives rise to the risk of increased the Groups reputation.
programme costs, damages, litigation and other Impact financial liabilities, reduced future profitability and Mitigation This will lead to suboptimal financial performance, reputational risk.
A comprehensive due diligence process was loss of investor confidence and a failure to deliver undertaken during the pre-acquisition process.
Poor operational performance could also lead to customers withholding new and existing business Post-acquisition, detailed assessments have been Mitigation from the Group.
undertaken against the due diligence findings and Implementation of the OD concepts and comprehensive integration plans established.
structuresremain on track to deliver the desired Mitigation operating company construct for the Group.
LCM and programme management procedures are Aeroflex performance is continuously monitored A keyfocus remains to ensure that key talent intended to ensure that the Groups key contract and against the due diligence plan with regular isrecruited and retained.
programme management policies and procedures oversightfrom the Groups M&A Committee.
are applied consistently and appropriately across all The CFO led project, to enhance the Governance, areas of the business.
These procedures also provide Retention plans are in place for key individuals Risk and Assurance Framework in accordance with increased focus on improvements to its LCM and and the integration programme is subject to best practice enterprise risk management, remains programme management capabilities.
on course to deliver an appropriate yet flexible level of control across the business.
This will allow There is monthly reporting of progress against Link to KPIs appropriate risk taking within the Groups stated agreed LCM improvement actions to the Group Organic revenue growth appetite, and drive improvements in performance Executive, and semi-annually to the Audit Underlying EPS growth through application of effective governance and Committee.
Return on invested capital Application of the Groups revised contracts policy Voluntary staff turnover See the CR&S section on pages 38 to 41 for will ensure appropriate levels of risk transfer sharing information on talent management actions.
commensurate with our risk appetite.
Risk appetite Assertive Link to KPIs Link to KPIs Underlying EPS growth Organic revenue growth Risk status indicator Cash conversion Underlying EPS growth It is anticipated that the multi-year integration Return on invested capital Cash conversion programme will be complete by the end of 2017.
Voluntary staff turnover Return on invested capital Risk appetite Risk appetite Balanced Balanced Risk status indicator Risk status indicator The OD project has been implemented and The Company continues to be in a significant phase thegovernance, risk and assurance initiative of engineering and development activity on various continues to support the execution of the programmes and platforms.
com Cobham plc 36 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 7.
Deterioration in trading interruption risk continuous improvement performance or in cash generation programmes, including the leading to higher debt and implementation of standard increased gearing ITservices and security, across theportfolio Risk Risk Risk The Groups businesses could be impacted by natural Failure to deliver growth and improvements in Delivery of below target business performance and disasters or fire events affecting its operational operational performance that are sustainable.
cash generation, leading to higher than anticipated locations or suppliers, by other significant events in debt and higher gearing.
the supply chain or by IT systems failures including Linked to this is the deployment of standard IT from cyber attack, rendering critical systems or services, for example an effective cyber security Impact manufacturing locations unable to function.
and enterprise resource planning system across Higher debt and gearing would lead to reduced theGroup, which underpin the Groups CI initiatives.
capacity to fund organic investment and M&A, Impact possible breaches of bank covenants and associated Unscheduled interruption to business activities would Impact reputational risk.
result in reduced profits, loss of customer satisfaction, Project, programme, production and service potential cost outlays, and reputational impact.
deliverywill be adversely affected, increasing Mitigation costsand reducing customer satisfaction.
Cash performance across the Group is closely Mitigation monitored and regularly reviewed by the CFO.
The Group maintains major incident IT failure Mitigation Monthly performance and cash flow forecasts are business continuity plans.
Employees are trained CI benefits are built into budgets with progress reviewed by the CFO and CEO.
This is reported to inrelevant procedures.
monitored at quarterly business review meetings.
the Board on a monthly basis.
There are robust policy controls and processes covering the Groups IT security and capability are continually monitored CI sustainment training has been delivered to treasury activities including cash policy, credit and strengthened when needed.
collection policies, working capital metrics and other performance targets.
See pages 26 to 31 for more The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover Assessment and accreditation processes have been information.
The business proactively aligns its cost and works closely with insurers and other third developed to assess sites with respect to CI and to base when market conditions necessitates this.
party experts to ensure operating infrastructure and identify areas for improvement.
processes include robust risk improvement activities.
Link to KPIs Robust management of plans to ensure site Underlying EPS growth See the CR&S section on pages 38 to 41 for further readiness and planning of implementation resources Cash conversion details on mitigating actions against business into site budgets for ERP and other standard interruption risk arising from environmental factors.
IT service implementations, including targeted Risk appetite improvements to cyber security.
Balanced Link to KPIs Organic revenue growth Detailed application test planning and ERP execution, Risk status indicator Underlying EPS growth including stress and load tests, application performance, All Group operating units are actively engaged Return on invested capital network and security tests.
to optimise cash generation and to implement Staff safety efficiency saving initiatives.
The Group is focused Link to KPIs on working capital improvement and also requires Risk appetite Organic revenue growth business units to prepare formal investment Balanced Underlying EPS growth appraisals to support capital expenditure and Cash conversion major investments.
CI programmes also help to Risk status indicator Return on invested capital further mitigate risk as this supports operational IT security threats continue to escalate.
The Group improvements, leading to increased cash generation has increased exposure to site specific IT risks Risk appetite and trading profit.
through the additional sites that were acquired as Balanced part of the Aeroflex transaction.
See the case study on page 34 for details of how the Group manages Risk status indicator fire and natural catastrophe risks.
CI professionals have been embedded in the business unit management teams, with CI resourcesincreased during the year.
com Cobham plc 36 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
