PRINCIPAL RISKS IDENTIFYING AND MANAGING RISK The Board continues to take a proactive approach to recognising and mitigating risk with the aim of protecting its employees and consumers and safeguarding the interests of the Company and its shareholders in the constantly changing environment in which it operates.
As set out in the Corporate Governance review.
They do not comprise all of the risks The Group faces a number of operational section within the Annual Report, the that the Group may face and are not listed risks on an ongoing basis such as litigation Group has policies and procedures in place in any order of priority.
Additional risks and financial including liquidity and credit to ensure that risks are properly identified, and uncertainties not presently known to risk and some wider risks, for example, evaluated and managed at the appropriate management, or deemed to be less material environmental and reputational.
Additionally, level within the business.
at the date of this Report, may also have an there are risks such as those relating to the adverse effect on the Group.
In accordance eurozone economy, pensions, and acquisitions The identification of risks and opportunities, with the provisions of the UK Corporate and investments which vary in importance the development of action plans to manage Governance Code 2014, the Board has taken depending on changing conditions.
All risks the risks and maximise the opportunities, and into consideration the principal risks in the disclosed in previous years can be found in the continual monitoring of progress against context of determining whether to adopt the the annual reports available on our website at agreed key performance indicators KPIs are going concern basis of accounting and when www.
We recognise that integral parts of the business process, and assessing the prospects of the Company for these risks remain important to the business core activities throughout the Group.
the purpose of preparing the Viability and they are kept under review.
However, we The table on pages 32 and 33 sets out the Statement.
The Going Concern and Viability have focused the disclosures on pages 32 and Statement can be found on page 30 of the 33 on those risks that are currently considered principal risks and uncertainties facing the business at the date of this Report.
to be more significant to the Group.
have been subject to robust assessment and Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 31 Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED CHANGE IN RISK KEY INCREASED RISK DECREASED RISK CONSISTENT RISK HEALTH AND SAFETY RISK DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION Health and safety is our number one operational priority.
All management meetings throughout the Group feature a health HEALTH AND We are focused on protecting peoples wellbeing, as well as and safety update as their first agenda item.
SAFETY avoiding serious business interruption and potential damage Health and safety improvement KPIs are included in the annual to our reputation.
Compass feeds millions of consumers and bonus plans for each of the business management teams.
employs thousands of people around the world every day.
The Group has policies, procedures and standards in place to Therefore, setting the highest standards for food hygiene and ensure compliance with legal obligations and industry standards.
The safety and quality of our global supply chain are assured through compliance against a robust set of standards which are regularly reviewed, audited and upgraded as necessary to improve supply chain visibility and product integrity.
CLIENTS AND CONSUMERS RISK DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION CLIENT AND Our business relies on securing and retaining a diverse range We have strategies which strengthen our long term relationships of clients.
with our clients and consumers based on quality, value and CONSUMER SALES innovation.
AND RETENTION Our business model is structured so that we are not reliant on one particular sector, geography or group of clients.
BIDDING Each year, the Group could bid for a large number A rigorous tender review process is in place, which includes of opportunities.
a critical assessment of contracts to identify potential risks including social and ethical risks and rewards, prior to approval at an appropriate level in the organisation.
SERVICE DELIVERY The Groups operating companies contract with a large Processes are in place to ensure that the services delivered number of clients.
Failure to comply with the terms of these to clients are of an appropriate standard and comply with the AND CONTRACTUAL contracts, including proper delivery of services, could lead required contract terms and conditions.
COMPLIANCE to loss of business.
COMPETITION We operate in a highly competitive marketplace.
The levels of We aim to minimise this by continuing to promote our concentration and outsource penetration vary by country and differentiated propositions and by focusing on our points of by sector.
Some markets are relatively concentrated with two strength, such as flexibility in our cost base, quality and value or three key players.
Others are highly fragmented and offer of service and innovation.
significant opportunities for consolidation and penetration of the self-operated market.
Aggressive pricing from our competitors could cause a reduction in our revenues and margins.
PEOPLE RISK DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION Failure to attract and recruit people with the right skills at all The Group aims to mitigate this risk by efficient, time critical RECRUITMENT levels could limit the success of the Group.
The Group faces resource management, mobilisation of existing, experienced resourcing challenges in some of its businesses due to a lack employees within the organisation and through offering training of industry experience amongst candidates and appropriately and development programmes.
qualified people, and the seasonal nature of some of our business.
Retaining and motivating the best people with the right skills, The Group has established training, development, performance RETENTION AND at all levels of the organisation, is key to the long term success management and reward programmes to retain, develop and MOTIVATION of the Group.
The Group has a well established employee engagement initiative, Your Voice, which helps us to monitor, understand and respond to our employees needs.
32 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL ENVIRONMENT RISK DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION Some sectors of our business could be susceptible to adverse With the variable and flexible nature of our cost base, ECONOMY changes in economic conditions and employment levels.
it is generally possible to contain the impact of these adverse conditions.
Our objective is always to deliver the right level of service As part of our MAP framework, we seek to manage inflation COST INFLATION in the most efficient way.
An increase in the cost of labour, by continuing to drive greater efficiencies through menu for example, minimum wages in the USA and UK, or food, management, supplier rationalisation, labour scheduling and especially in countries such as Turkey and Brazil, could productivity.
Cost indexation in our contracts also gives us the constitute a risk to our ability to do this.
contractual right to review pricing with our clients.
We are a global business operating in countries and regions The Group remains vigilant to future changes presented by POLITICAL STABILITY with diverse economic and political conditions.
Our operations emerging markets or fledgling administrations and we try to and earnings may be adversely affected by political or anticipate and contribute to important changes in public policy.
COMPLIANCE AND FRAUD RISK DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION Ineffective compliance management with laws and regulations, The Groups zero tolerance based Codes of Business Conduct COMPLIANCE AND or evidence of fraud, could have an adverse effect on the and Ethics govern all aspects of our relationships with our FRAUD Groups reputation and could result in an adverse impact on stakeholders.
All alleged breaches of the Codes, including any the Groups performance if significant financial penalties are allegations of fraud, are investigated.
levied or a criminal action is brought against the Company The Groups procedures include regular operating reviews, or its directors.
underpinned by a continual focus on ensuring the effectiveness of internal controls.
Regulation and compliance risk is also considered as part of our annual business planning process.
As a Group, we seek to plan and manage our tax affairs We manage and control these risks in a proactive manner and TAX COMPLIANCE efficiently in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
In doing so, in doing so exercise our judgement and seek appropriate advice we act in compliance with the relevant laws and disclosure from reputable professional firms.
Tax risks are assessed as requirements.
However, in an increasingly complex international part of the Groups formal governance process and are reviewed corporate tax environment, a degree of uncertainty is inevitable by the Board and the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
and we note in particular the policy efforts being led by the EU and the OECD which may have a material impact on the taxation of all international businesses.
INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY RISK DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION The digital world creates many risks for a global business We seek to assess and manage the maturity of our enterprise INFORMATION including technology failures, loss of confidential data and risk and security infrastructure and our ability to effectively SYSTEMS AND damage to brand reputation.
defend against current and future cyber risks by using analysis TECHNOLOGY tools and experienced professionals to evaluate and mitigate potential impacts.
The Group relies on a variety of IT systems in order to manage and deliver services and communicate with our clients, consumers, suppliers and employees.
We are focused on the need to maximise the effectiveness of our information systems and technology as a business enabler and to reduce both cost and exposure as a result.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 33 MANAGING COMPLEXITY GLOBAL STANDARDS, LOCAL SOURCING Our refreshed global Supply Chain Integrity Standards are increasing our visibility on where products come from, as well as reducing the complexity of how we source them.
