y g V i e t s i a o r t n S Strategic report Risk and risk management To achieve our vision, we recognise that we must create and protect value for all our shareholders.
We see risk management as being an integral component of this.
The Group recognises that the successful management of risk The Groups risk management function and framework as part of our everyday activities is essential to support the During 2015, we have invested in our risk and compliance achievement of our strategic objectives.
This includes both current infrastructure with the appointment of a Group chief risk and risks and those associated with the implementation of future strategy.
compliance officer and key riskteam members.
Additionally, we Risk management lies at the heart of what we do and is a source of havetaken the opportunity toreview the governance structure of our value creation, making it a key component of the Groups strategic management, executive management and Board-level Committees.
The Board seeks to ensure that the Group identifies and The Group has implemented a revised risk management framework manages all risks accordingly, either to create additional value for RMF which builds on existing practices and seeks to establish its stakeholders or to protect value through the mitigation of any acoherent and interactive set of arrangements and processes to potentially adverse effects.
A summary of the principal risks and support the effective and consistent management of risk throughout uncertainties facing the Group is provided onpage 21. the Group.
The outputs of the RMF provide assurance that risks are being appropriately identified and managed and that an independent assessment of managements approach to risk management is beingperformed.
COUNTRYWIDES RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK During the year, the Group has continued to strengthen and embed the components of the RMF to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy and external best practice.
The eight components of the RMF are shown in the diagram below: 1 Risk strategy 8 2 Risk Risk assurance governance Our customers 7 3 Risk monitoring Risk and reporting culture Our Our people portfolio 6 4 Risk Risk control identification 5 Risk assessment 18 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 e s V a o l p u r e u s P Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 1 5 Risk strategy Risk assessment A standardised assessment framework is used to evaluate our risk A comprehensive view of how risk management is incorporated exposure at both business unit and overall Group level, enabling consistently across all levels of the business to support informed a consistent and relative measurement of our top risks at both decision making.
During the year we established the Groups risk levels.
This assessment capability allows us to anticipate, respond strategy and a risk appetite framework to guide and inform our and continually adapt to the changing risk landscape and ensure strategic decision making which comprises a series of macro-level a comprehensive line of sight through reporting through the risk appetite statements proportionate to the nature, scale and Groups governance structure from the business unit leadership complexity of risks faced by our business.
teams up to the Group Risk and Audit Committee and the Board.
2 6 Risk governance R isk control Controls operate across the business at entity level through Responsibility for approving, establishing and maintaining the RMF policies and associated control standards, and locally through rests with the Board.
During the year we made enhancements to individual business unit control environments.
During the year the Groups governance arrangements to align with our organisational we have identified risk champions throughout the organisation redesign from Board through to management committee level.
and risk sponsors, held workshops to identify requirements There is a clear organisational structure in place with documented, and established risk registers at business unit level.
delegated authorities and responsibilities from the Board to the chief executive and the Executive Committee.
The RMF is underpinned by the operation of a  model with clearly defined roles and responsibilities for statutory boards and their committees, management oversight committees, Group Risk and Group Internal Audit.
Please see the next page for the .
3 Risk monitoring and reporting 7 Risk culture Monitoring and reporting of the Groups risk exposures is Operating principles and expectations for risk management undertaken through management committees.
The Group Risk are driven by a clear tone from the top.
During the year we and Audit Committee receives a consolidated risk report on have established clear leadership expectations and a common a quarterly basis, detailing the risks facing the Group and the understanding of what it means for our leadership community expected six-month position against a series of planned mitigating in respect of their role in owning and managing risks within the actions.
The Group Risk and Audit Committee is also provided Countrywide Group.
The work we have undertaken to define with regular reports on the activities of the Group Risk and the Groups purpose, vision and values provides the compass for Compliance function.
The foundation of effective day-to-day management of risk is in the way we do business and the culture of our team.
4 8 Risk assurance Risk identification Assurance on the management of risk is provided across the Effective risk management requires that the Group has a complete  model.
Management committees consider and robust understanding of the risks it faces, which are defined in outputs from reviews performed by the first line e. g. quality assurance our risk universe.
Tools exist to support the identification of short results and management reviews, second line e. g. risk reviews and long term risks and during the past year we have raised our conducted in relation to specific themed areas and the third line collective awareness of our material risk exposures, their via reporting provided by Internal Audit on the results of findings management and ownership.
from individual audits and progress in implementing agreed management actions.
The results of this assurance activity are reported to the relevant level within the Group.
Further detail on the  model are provided on the next page.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 19 Strategic report Risk and risk management continued THREE LINES OFDEFENCE 1 First line of defence 2 Second line of defence Third line of defence 3 Under the first line of defence, management The third line of defence provides independent The second line of defence consists of activities of risk is delegated from the Board to the verification of the adequacy and effectiveness covered by Group Risk, Legal, HR, Finance, IT Group chief executive officer, Executive of the internal controls and risk management.
The second Committee members and through to business This is provided by the Group Risk and line sets the strategy and policy for the unit senior managers.
Business unit management AuditCommittee, which is supported by management of specific risks and monitors leadership teams are responsible for ensuring Internal Audit.
and facilitates the implementation of effective the risks associated with their business risk management practices and assists risk activities are identified, assessed, controlled, owners in reporting adequate information.
Underpinning the Countrywide RMF is the  model: Third line of defence Countrywide plc Board Review 1st and 2nd lines Provide an independent perspective and challenge theprocess Remuneration Committee Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Objective and other assurance Second line of defence Executive Committee Oversee and challenge riskmanagement Provide guidance and direction Develop and oversee RMF Executive Risk Committee ERC Group Risk and Group H&S Group Information Compliance Committee Committee SecurityCommittee First line of defence Deliver day-to-day riskmanagement Follow the Group RMF Financial Services Retail leadership team London leadership team B2B leadership team Apply internal controls leadership team andriskresponses Both of these scenarios included the relative knock-on impact of Viability statement a reduction in EBITDA within our agency operations and to other Assessment of prospects cross-related areas ofthe business: and Taking account of the Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks detailed opposite, the directors have assessed event-related shock risk i. e. where the crystallisation of a the prospects of the Group over a three-year period, which aligns particular principal risk results in a one-off cash flow impact which with the Groups business planning and budgeting cycle.
the Group would need to be able to absorb in a specific period.
In considering which principal risks to consider for this scenario The directors overall assessment has been informed by the inputs to, we sought to identify the most severe, yet plausible, scenarios and outputs from, the Groups RMF as described above.
In particular: asopposed to modelling each less impactful principal risk: and the executive team undertook an assessment of the risks reported the directors then considered the financial and operational impact to the Board contained within the quarterly risk report: of these severe, but plausible, scenarios to determine their overall those risks were considered against their relative impact and effect on the Groups financial position.
This assessment was considered likelihood to determine which risks were deemed to be principal against the Groups expected financial position, existing banking risks to the Group: facilities and potential management actions.
the Groups business planning model was then used to consider Viability statement the Groups exposure to our principal risks on two fronts: Based on their assessment of prospects and viability above, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will business as usual trend-related risk i. e. those risks which are be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall progressive in their nature.
In this respect we have assessed the due over the three-year period ending 31 December 2018.
Groups viability against two market risk scenarios: an aggressive but short term house price crash decline in transactional volumes The directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial with a slow return to growth: and a slower, yet continuing, decline statements on the going concern basis, as explained in the basis of in house prices transactional volumes.
preparation paragraph in note 2 of the accounts.
20 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FACING THE GROUP The directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The table below sets out the principal risks faced by the Group, together with mitigating factors and associated commentary on any changes in riskprofile.
Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary Market risk The UK housing market is highly We carry out continuous high level reviews A core component of our business strategy cyclical and historically has been of the market, forward indicators and is to continue with selective acquisitions in central to the strength of the UK diversity of our products and services existing core markets, particularly in lettings Increase economy.
Changes in volumes as part of our distribution strategy.
During 2015 we have and price are immediately realised continued to acquire.
These developments For example, we continue to strengthen in the results of the business, continue to increase resilience of revenue our Lettings and Commercial operations within both the Estate Agency streams and diversity of our offerings.
which, by their nature, are more stable business and also sales of An ongoing programme of acquisitions and counter-cyclical to the housing market.
complementary services is planned for the forthcoming year.
throughout other areas of The core driver for the housing market remains the Group.
The legacy of the drop in new build The impact of changes in the following the onset of the global financial global economy cannot be crisis is now hitting home, with both the ignored and could have an sales and letting markets continuing to adverse effect on the UK show demand outstripping supply on a housing market.
Loss of a major business partner or outsourcing partner There are a number of important We centralised the team responsible for We continue to benefit from strong relationships commercial relationships which liaising with key customers and developing with our corporate partners and we have affect more than one area of new contracts.
The operating divisions retained, as well as won, a number of No change the business.
The loss of key carry out regular reviews with key clients at contracts with key clients.
We were selected customers or contracts, or different levels of management.
Reviews at by Santander as one of its formal valuation significant reduction in volumes leadership team level between the client partners from 1 January 2015 and both combined with pressure on fees, and B2B business unit Countrywide plc Nationwide and HSBC have also chosen would have a significant impact also take place.
We operate appropriate to renew their contracts with us.
The failure of contingency measures in the event of a significant supplier could impair supplier collapse.
The key partner alliances our ability to operate effectively.
in place and the confidence that these partners have in us mean that we have significant resilience to loss.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 21 Strategic report Risk and risk management continued Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary IT infrastructure and information security Dependence on efficient systems There has been significant continual The transition of our IT infrastructure via for operational performance and investment to support operational outsourcing to CGI has continued throughout financial information would be expansion and as part of the planned 2015.
Additionally, we commissioned an No change impacted by significant failures transformation and maintenance of independent strategic review of the full or interruptions to IT services.
IT infrastructure during 2015 and, as a Data security is also essential Routine penetration testing is also result of this work, have a full roadmap to the secure processing, conducted in respect of data security.
of development and optimisation work storage and transmission of scheduled for 2016 and the coming years.
routine personal, confidential The Information Security Steering Committee and proprietary information.
has met regularly throughout the year in order to co-ordinate information security best practice and to ensure continuing accreditation within business to business operations.
Business continuity plans and key systems are in place and we hold ISO 27001 certification across a number of our key business areas.
Professional indemnity exposure The previous downturn in the UK Monitoring arrangements include operational Focus on this area has been maintained housing and commercial markets controls implemented for review of surveyor during 2015 with additional ongoing reviews and the impact of sub-prime outputs and targeted use of automated of our audit process to identify further Decrease lending exposed the Group to valuation models in perceived higher improvements.
a higher level of professional risk cases, as well as maintenance of risk Risk management remains a top priority for insurance claims within the management arrangements.
In respect of us and has additional benefits in demonstrating Surveying services.
legacy issues, we continue to review the to clients the quality of professional advice judgements and estimates underpinning the and services we deliver.
We carry a different professional indemnity insurance arrangement for our commercial business, Lambert Smith Hampton, as potential individual exposures could be larger.
By doing this we protect our overall Group cover and effectively ring fence commercial risks delivering a financially beneficial position for the Group overall.
Financial misstatement and fraud risk Material financial misstatement Embedded financial controls, incorporating We have continued to monitor embedded may arise due to error or fraud, appropriate segregation of duties, operate controls and conduct independent in the form of fraudulent financial within the businesses to ensure robust management reviews across our divisions.
No change reporting or misappropriation of preventative and detective controls are in We ensure that where best practice assets.
Independent financial reviews are developments emerge these are shared inappropriate decision making undertaken within the operational divisions within the Group and implementation data availability to management as an additional, high level, detective control.
In addition, may arise from non-fraudulent These reviews are also supplemented by we adopt recommendations arising from misstatement in financial reports centralised monitoring of financial internal and external reviews.
and financial loss to the Group performance against budgets and may occur as a result operating targets.
Misappropriation of funds is mitigated by centralised treasury monitoring of all bank accounts, with embedded operational controls ensuring appropriate delegation of authority, restricted access to accounts and appropriate segregation of duties and mandated dual authorisation controls.
22 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary Competitive landscape Countrywide operates across a Our business strategy concentrates on Our extensive research across over 3,000 range of highly competitive promoting our strengths of bringing people customers indicates that there are a full markets, some of which are and property together while focusing on range of customer needs and that the vast Increase experiencing changes in the customer choice through, for example, majority are looking for digital solutions to traditional operating models.
digitised solutions as a complementary help them with parts of the customer journey Competition could lead to a element of our service offering.
rather than a pure digital interaction.
reduction in market share and or Our focus continues to comprise the We are continuing to evolve our proposition a decline in revenues.
retention of both existing customers with customer needs and we continually as well as engaging with new customers collect information on competitor activity.
by ensuring that our service offering Our management structure allows this evolves and improves to meet and competitor intelligence to be fed back to exceed expectations in the market.
management accurately and quickly so that the Company can rapidly consider appropriate responses.
Regulatory compliance Failure to meet current or increased Expertise within the operational divisions is The first phase of the EU Mortgage Credit legal or regulatory requirements also supported by centralised legal and Directive MCD, in force from 1 March 2016, could result in reputational and compliance teams which closely monitor will impact on lenders, but not to the degree No change financial damage, including existing business practices and any reform that the Mortgage Market Review MMR of withdrawal of authorisation or proposals.
The MCD changes will be assimilated licences for the conduct of training and our managers attend industry within the business in accordance with the plan.
We maintain close links and open dialogue Robust complaints management systems with our regulatory bodies and have continued are in place across all operating divisions, to monitor regulatory developments and with root cause analysis in place.
their impacts across our divisions, developing implementation plans accordingly and adopting recommendations arising from external reviews.
Where necessary, we deploy specialist external resource to supplement our in-house expertise on regulatory change.
