d e i I f i m t n p e r d o i v s e e m v i e t n c t e s j i b m o p o l t e s m t e a n e t r e h d T d e w e i v e r r T o h t r e e s a t s s e v q PRInCIPal RIsks and unCeRtaIntIes We manage risk to help us achieve Commercial risks Reduced profitability ourstrategic objectives and protect Risk area and potential impact ourreputation.
We operate in extremely competitive markets.
If we fail to compete effectively or are subject to higher input prices that cannot be recovered by raising The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups selling prices without losing volumes we could lose sales and profits.
risk management processes and the Board is responsible for the Mitigating controls appropriate identification of risks and the effective implementation We set ourselves the target of continually reducing our cost base and are of mitigating activities.
ableto invest in our supply chain to help achieve this.
Internal Audit provides independent assurance to management No one customer accounts for more than 15% of total revenues and we and the Audit Committee as to the effectiveness of mechanisms continually strive to widen our customer base.
Despite challenging trading put in place to mitigate risks.
This process explicitly recognises conditions we continue to invest in marketing our key brands.
Our innovation the relationship between Internal Audit and Risk Management.
programme continues to generate new products that reinforce our appeal tocustomers.
We recognise the importance of strong customer relationships The Audit Committee is satisfied that the processes are adequate and the executive team plays an active part in maintaining and developing and appropriate.
Further details are set out in the Corporate these.
They are also involved in major customer negotiations.
We conduct Governance Report on pages 35 to 44. customer surveys to benchmark our performance and we continuously monitor the service and quality levels provided to our customers and The Group Risk Register is compiled in two stages.
Central, consumers, and have procedures in place to react quickly to any issues.
demand and supply risks are identified separately by members of Ourcommitment to corporate responsibility is an important part of our overall the Management Board and senior managers and consolidated proposition to some customers.
into an initial register that is then reviewed and refined by the Management Board as a whole to create the Group Risk Register.
Reduced demand from consumers The Board formally reviews the Group Risk Register annually when Risk area and potential impact the budget is set.
The Company Secretary and General Counsel is Consumers could move away from dairy products for economic, health, responsible for highlighting to the Board any changes to the Group ethical, or other reasons leading to lower sales and profits.
Risk Register identified during the intervening periods.
Mitigating controls The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out in the table below.
This is not intended to be an exhaustive Consumers are at the heart of our business and we regularly monitor consumer trends.
We continue to promote the health benefits provided analysis of all risks facing the Group.
by dairy products and develop healthier products.
We also continue to maintain our focus on developing a compelling new product development pipeline, enabling us to react to consumer trends, for example with more  packaging, and healthier variants of our key brands.
We have a direct involvement with government to understand and influence future legislation that could affect future consumer demand.
Input cost volatility Risk area and potential impact Volatile milk and non-milk costs vegetable oils, diesel, electricity, gas and packaging could reduce margins unless we can manage cost risk, find other Group board cost efficiencies elsewhere or increase selling prices.
Milk prices could remain volatile as European milk production quotas have been abolished from April 2015.
Risk register Mitigating controls This area is closely reviewed by the Management Board which has established a risk committee to monitor and hedge forward non-milk commodity prices as appropriate.
The risks associated with purchasing large volumes of milk have been reduced by establishing milk pools linked to Management board major customers.
We seek to absorb short term cost movements through supply chain efficiencies.
Our purchasing and commercial teams have clear lines of communication between them to ensure customers are kept aware of changes to our cost base and requests for price increases can be fully justified.
We have reviewed the effect that we believe the abolition of milk quotas will have on our business.
We believe it is commodity cheese markets, in which we dont operate, that are most likely to be affected, but we will continue to monitor this closely.
14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 i u t c a e n j t i b f i o e d s s e n i s u B E x d i s e t r i o n t g i n c o o m n t r e o c l s n a a s m s r e o s f s r e e P d Operational risks People risks Inability to source milk Disease epidemic Risk area and potential impact Risk area and potential impact Without milk we would not have a business.
Restricted milk supply due to A disease epidemic such as swine flu could adversely affect the health of economic factors, weather, fuel availability or an epidemic which affects our employees and prevent them working, leaving us unable to service dairy cows could restrict milk supply.
This in turn could lead to lower sales customers.
Consumer confidence in dairy products could also be adversely Mitigating controls affected.
Contingency plans which include working with industry bodies are in place Mitigating controls for known epidemic risks.
We invest significant resources in maintaining strong relationships with Recruitment and retention our milk suppliers by attending forums and discussing current issues and pressures that affect both the farms and our business.
The majority of our Risk area and potential impact milk comes directly from farms on contracts that include a notice period of between three months and one year.
Our experienced milk procurement We need to retain high quality employees to provide customers and team understand milk production and are alert to changes in supply.
We aim consumers with safe, high quality products and services.
to pay a fair, market related milk price and closely monitor the milk price we Mitigating controls pay to suppliers in order to ensure we can purchase the right quantity of milk to meet demand forecasts and have established procedures for allocating We carry out rigorous selection procedures and benchmark pay and benefits milk between our businesses if a short-term shortfall in supply does arise.
We to ensure we can attract and retain the best people.
We have a wide bonus have contingency plans established for major incidents and work closely with scheme and a range of other incentives to reward good performance.
Our DEFRA and industry bodies to ensure these are appropriate.
These plans are Long Term Alignment Plan aligns the interest of management to shareholders regularly tested and reviewed with the Management Board.
and helps to retain key senior employees.
There is a performance review and talent management scheme to identify and develop our own people.
We Failure of a key supplier undertake regular surveys to monitor the relationship with our employees and their engagement, communicate with them regularly and encourage them to Risk area and potential impact ask questions.
We are dependent on key suppliers and could lose sales and face financial penalties from customers if suppliers failure leaves us unable to supply.
Financial risks Failure of key information technology suppliers could adversely affect our financial systems.
Pension scheme Mitigating controls Risk area and potential impact Our purchasing team regularly monitors suppliers ability to supply and puts Despite the action we have taken to reduce the risks associated with our in place alternative arrangements, including dual purchasing, if appropriate.
pension scheme, including closing the scheme to future accrual in 2010 and We have taken specific actions to reduce our dependency on information buying insurance to meet the liabilities associated with many of our retired technology suppliers.
members in 2008 and 2009, the deficit could continue to increase and we may then have to increase our contributions.
Other operational risks Mitigating controls Risk area and potential impact We continue to work closely with the Trustee of the Pension Fund to improve the Funds financial position at an acceptable cash cost to the business.
We An accident, a fire, product contamination, the failure of equipment or have recently reduced the schemes exposure to equities and other highersystems or deliberate act could disrupt production, affect food safety, cause risk asset classes and aim to further do so.
injury, and or cause reputational damage with adverse consequences.
We are also reliant on information technology and exposed to losses in the event that systems fail.
Legal and compliance risks Mitigating controls Risk area and potential impact Plans are maintained to respond quickly to incidents and minimise any impact Our sector is subject to a number of complex statutory requirements.
Our business is committed to the health and safety of all our is a risk of fines or lawsuits and reputational damage if we fail to comply.
employees and maintains systems aimed at ensuring everyone is able to work safely.
All of our manufacturing sites have a trained engineering resource, are Mitigating controls supported by our major equipment suppliers and hold appropriate stocks of spare parts.
They also all have fire protection systems and regular fire drills.
We have a strong in-house legal function supported by external advisers.
Our information technology systems are regularly backed up and duplicated in We have undertaken Group-wide training in respect of competition law and the majority of areas.
We also maintain insurance cover for property damage actively monitor and adjust to on-going legal and regulatory changes.
We and business interruption risks.
have a Business Conduct Policy, and a programme designed to ensure that all relevant employees understand what is and is not permissible under the Risk area and potential impact UK Bribery Act.
Failure to maintain product quality could lead to reputational damage and loss of sales and profits.
As we start to manufacture ingredients for infant formula Major project risk this risk could increase.
Risk area and potential impact Mitigating controls To remain competitive we periodically undertake major transformational We have well established supply chains and a close working relationship projects following strategic reviews.
Successful execution of these projects with our milk suppliers.
We have an independent quality team, including is often key to delivering strategic objectives.
At the same time we have experienced cheese graders.
Customer and consumer complaints are to ensure that major projects do not divert from the on-going day-to-day monitored and acted upon.
Our contractual relationship with Fonterra, who delivery of products and services to our customers.
will sell the infant formula ingredients we will produce, allows us to utilise its Mitigating controls experience in this field.
We have a good track record of managing projects and use experienced and appropriately skilled senior managers to lead these.
Supervisory governance structures are also put in place to help successful delivery.
We are aware that too much change concentrated in too short a timescale can be detrimental and manage this by ensuring key project resource is full time with appropriate backfilling and use of third parties.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 15 Strategic report
