PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Change Continuing A decline in sales on The board conducts strategic business reviews which adverse discretionary purchases ensure that management is focused on key priorities and economic leading to a reduction in profit.
These reviews also focus on the four pillars conditions ofthe Groups strategy to build a leading international, This is a decreasing risk may have multi-channel brand and the operational effectiveness because the gap between amaterial ofthe processes and systems which link the pillars of the adverse inflation and wage growth has strategy together.
However, Debenhams theconsumer environment results remains volatile and we remain cautious about the outlook.
Debenhams Adverse effect on inventory Debenhams product and brand strategy involves business could and profit.
selling a diverse mix of products in order to reduce suffer as a reliance on those that may be weather dependent.
result of weak Tohelp mitigate the impact of this risk, should it sales during occur, management would review the benefits of peak selling strengthening both planned and tactical promotional seasons or or marketing activity in order to drive sales.
extreme or unseasonal weather conditions Failure in Risks associated with systems A robust systems infrastructure is required to support thestability, failure, external attack of the delivery of our strategic objectives which are integrity or systems or data inaccuracy outlined on pages 8 and 9.
As such, information availability may also significantly systems developments are key enablers and critical for ofinformation damage ability to manage accelerating the pace of change necessary to compete systems could information technology effectively.
To support the efficient and effective adversely systems, such as our website delivery of strategic and business critical projects, a affect or warehouse management business change roadmap has been developed, the Debenhams systems, or could cause governance framework has been enhanced and a series business inappropriate decisions to of projects are under way to strengthen business operations bemade using wrong, continuity to maintain and protect performance.
and results missing or ambiguous Monitoring processes are in place across a number of information.
key business systems, alongside specialist teams, and adisaster recovery site is in place where associated systems are tested to ensure that the requirements forinvocation are fully understood.
Inability to Unable to continue The business continuity management committee is effectively operations smoothly in the comprised of senior executives and works to a framework invoke a event of a major incident based on the most recent international standard.
The key business which may have an adverse objectives of this committee are to ensure that potential continuity effect on inventory and threats to the organisation and the impacts that those plan could profitability and divert threats might cause have been identified, that a framework adversely financial and management to build organisational resilience to known threats is in place affect resources from more and that the framework has the capability to deliver an Debenhams beneficial uses.
effective response to safeguard the Group.
business operations, A business continuity policy, describing roles and reputation responsibilities across the Group, ensures that an effective and results framework is in place to enable the recovery and continuation of normal business operations as soon as possible in the event of any disruptive incidents.
Key business systems are managed and monitored by specialist teams.
Change in severity and or likelihood of risk during course of 2014 15.
These risks are not new but were previously incorporated within other principal risks.
These risks are not new but are now reported as principal risks following the annual review of their ranking.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 22 Strategic report 2-39 Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Change Theft of Negative effect on Steering groups exist for both data protection and PCI customer data reputation leading to loss standards which review and report on compliance or breach of ofstakeholder trust and levels.
Debenhams utilises external specialists as payment card confidence, with subsequent required to assist in achieving its compliance goals, industry impact on profitability as well with compliance levels versus the PCI standard standards as diverting financial and monitored by management and reported to the Audit could management resources Committee.
A number of security tools are employed adversely frommore beneficial uses.
to protect data, including encryption, intruder affect detection and data loss prevention.
Debenhams This is a decreasing risk business because of the ongoing work operations, and progress made around reputation payment card industry and results PCI compliance.
Debenhams Place pressure on our pricing Debenhams product and brand strategy gives customers business could strategy, margins and a unique, differentiated and exclusive choice of brands, suffer as a profitability.
products and categories within a good better best pricing result of failing architecture.
An understanding of customers and their Divert financial and to compete needs is developed by listening to their views, market management resources effectively intelligence and reviewing KPIs which ensures that pricing is frommore beneficial uses.
competitive and promotional activity is appropriate.
Debenhams customer insight team provides valuable intelligence to keep us alert to changes in customer priorities.
Debenhams Sales will be lower, market Delivering a compelling customer proposition is at the business may share will be reduced and the heart of Debenhams strategy.
In developing product suffer if it is Company may be forced to rely andbrand strategy, the Group takes into consideration unable to on additional markdowns or market, trend and customer research to help it predict predict promotional sales to dispose likely demand for its products and services.
Debenhams accurately or ofexcess or slow-moving continues to invest in its product and brand strategy to fulfil customer inventory or may experience ensure that it remains competitive.
preferences inventory shortfalls on popular ordemand A number of specific actions are being taken to address merchandise.
through the issues of the channel shift.
These include: competitive, Channel shifts away from Building a more competitive and economic multieconomic and stores to online could lead profitable channel business to drive sales, increase the recovery tohigher operational costs channels offulfilment costs and reduce the cost per unit of within the online channel and fulfilment.
To this end, a range of competitive lower profitability, or even deliveryoptions and a single stockfile are being impairment, of store assets.
Any of the above could have Driving a better return on UK store assets through the amaterial adverse effect on introduction of additional products, brands and Debenhams business, financial services as well as ensuring that stores are fully condition or profitability.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 23 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Change A failure Could significantly delay or Debenhams has developed a business change todeliver prevent the achievement roadmap, which includes a number of projects that Debenhams ofDebenhams business support the delivery of the key strategic priorities.
This key strategic planand could have a includes investment in buying and merchandising priorities may material adverse effect systems capability to achieve greater alignment across adversely affect onDebenhams business, all sales channels and geographies.
its business financial condition or resultsof operations.
This is an increasing risk due to the volume of change being implemented and itsimportance to the business plan.
Any disruption Any of the risks associated Debenhams fosters close and collaborative relationships or other with doing business in with its suppliers.
Both parties work towards the adverse event international markets and or objective of optimising sustainable fulfilment and costs, influencing the importing merchandise from which is measured regularly by management through sustainability these regions could place KPIs.
You can read more about how the Group builds of the supply pressure on margins and relationships with our suppliers on page 34. chain profitability or require the Debenhams continues to develop its supplier base to Group to divert financial and mitigate the potential of cost price inflation without management resources from compromising the quality of its products.
In addition, more beneficial uses.
the sourcing division has been strengthened to include This is a decreasing risk as additional expertise which assists with sourcing Debenhams is developing decisions, production consolidation and lead time multiple sourcing routes to reduction, amongst other things.
ensure that pricing remains competitive and that demand can be supplied.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 24 Strategic report 2-39 Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Change Any disruption Any of the following factors In order to minimise the impact of any major supplier, orother adverse could impact the flow of designer or concessionaire relationship or performance event affecting product across our channels issues, Debenhams objectives are to: maintain close Debenhams and reduce profitability: costs and collaborative relationships by ensuring strategies relationship with associated with the transfer are aligned: have appropriate, unambiguous contracts any of its major ofthe operations or the in place: ensure that all major suppliers, designers or suppliers, potential of extra operational concessionaires are financially robust: and have designers or cost from a new provider: contingency plans in place in the event of a failure.
concessionaires changes in exclusivity arrangements with designersor any decline intheir popularity: the loss ofa number of important concession partners: adverse events within the supply chain which could restrict the availability or significantly increase the cost ofgoods.
Credit insurance difficulties for a significant number of suppliers could lead to a detrimental variation of termsor alternative suppliers used to source somegoods.
Any disruption Costs associated with the In order to minimise the impact of any major or other transfer of the operations outsourcing partner relationship or performance adverse event orthe potential of extra issues, Debenhams objectives are to: maintain close affecting operational cost from a new and collaborative relationships by ensuring that Debenhams provider could impact or strategies are aligned: have appropriate, unambiguous relationship reduce profitability.
contracts in place: ensure that all major outsourcing with any of partners are financially robust: and have contingency itsmajor plans in placein the event of a failure.
outsourcing partners Any disruption The loss of a number of In order to minimise the impact of any major franchise or other important franchise partners partners relationship or performance issues, adverse event could impact or reduce Debenhams objectives are to: maintain close and affecting profitability.
collaborative relationships by ensuring that strategies Debenhams are aligned: have appropriate, unambiguous contracts relationship in place: ensure that allmajor franchise partners are with any of financially robust: ensure that geopolitical risks are itsmajor carefully considered for any newmarket: and have franchise contingency plans in place intheevent of a failure.
partners Policies, controls and financial support behind receivables are in place to help mitigate the risk offranchise partner failure.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 25 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Change Any events Unfavourable publicity Ethical sourcing, legislative change and corporate that concerning Debenhams, responsibility matters are key areas of focus for the negatively itsethical trading policies, sustainability committee.
To ensure that Debenhams impact the itsbusiness policies including has the most current information available, it is a reputation health and safety, its corporate member of relevant industry bodies that provide of, or value responsibility practices, any awareness of changes to standards and legislation.
associated ofits brands orproducts, Allsuppliers are expected to adhere to Debenhams with, itssupply chain practices own supplier code of conduct, which is underpinned Debenhams orany of its franchisees or byDebenhams robust policy on compliance which brand could manufacturers or a substantial includes a real focus on social and ethical standards.
adversely erosion in thereputation of, Areliance on third party suppliers and franchisees, the affect its business orvalue associated with, the challenges of the current economic environment and Debenhams brand may lead the complexity of the new and existing legislation to a loss of stakeholder trust makes this an ongoing risk which Debenhams and and confidence and could itssuppliers and franchisees have to manage.
have a material adverse effect A health and safety committee exists to review on Debenhams ability to compliance with legal and regulatory obligations and a attract and retain third party number of participants are members of various relevant brands, suppliers, designers, industry bodies.
The committee receives input from concessions and franchisees, specialist teams which focus on discrete aspects.
These which could consequently include health and safety, building services, insurance impact Debenhams and retail operations.
To support compliance and to business, financial maintain high operational standards, health and safety .
awareness programmes are in place and each site has its own health and safety committee.
Factors Unable to continue operations The business continuity management committee is outside smoothly in the event of a comprised of senior executives and works to a Debenhams major incident which may have framework based on the most recent international control, such an adverse effect on inventory standard.
The key objectives of this committee are to as damage or and profitability and divert ensure that potential threats to the organisation and interruptions financial and management the impacts that those threats might cause have been due to resources from more beneficial identified, that a framework to build organisational operational uses.
Any terrorist attacks, resilience to known threats is in place and that the disruption, armed conflicts, social unrest framework has the capability to deliver an effective natural or other geopolitical response to safeguard the Group.
disaster, uncertainty could result in pandemics, A business continuity policy, describing roles and asignificant reduction in terrorist responsibilities across the Group, ensures that an activity, consumer confidence effective framework is in place to enable the recovery strikes or andspending levels.
and continuation of normal business operations as riotsmay have This is an increasing risk soon as possible in the event of any disruptive a material based on unpredictable incidents.
Key business systems are managed and adverse effect instability of various monitored by specialist teams.
on its results territories around the world Insurance policies have been placed as appropriate and the increased threat level tominimise the impact of specific risks.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 26 Strategic report 2-39 Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Change Currency Hinder ability to adjust rapidly to Debenhams has a treasury policy in place which covers fluctuations changing market conditions and counterparty limits and hedging for interest rates, and hedging impact earnings and cash flow.
There is also an internal risks could treasury function which is mandated by the board.
Hedging strategy may not materially adequately protect operating Debenhams closely monitors all aspects of cash adversely affect results from the impact of management to optimise balance sheet metrics.
Debenhams exchange rate fluctuations or Effectiveness is measured regularly by management earnings and may limit any benefit caused by through a series of KPIs.
cash flow favourable movements in Business critical spreadsheets and databases used exchange rates.
bythe finance department have been identified and Affect available cash and liquidity appropriate control measures are used in line with and could have material effect on Debenhams policy to ensure data integrity.
the business, results of operations and financial condition.
This is an increasing risk due to the increasing volatility in this area.
Factors Place pressure on margin and A key objective of the energy committee is to control outside profitability and will divert energy usage, including the impact of the Carbon Debenhams financial and management Reduction Commitment CRC scheme.
An energy control, such resources from more hedging policy is in place to provide a high degree as increases beneficial uses, reducing ofcost certainty in the short term.
fuel costs, mayhave an adverse effect on its results Debenhams Adverse effect on inventory Debenhams has specialist accounting, taxation, business may and profitability and will information systems and legal and secretariat teams and be materially divert financial and is also a member of key industry bodies which provide adversely management resources from awareness of changes to standards and legislation.
affected by more beneficial uses, changes to, Forums exist to focus on specific areas of legislation, reducing profitability.
ora breach and specific business policies and procedures are in bythe Group place to ensure that roles and responsibilities are of, laws or understood across the Group.
regulations Acts of fraud, Negative effect on In order to mitigate fraud across all channels in which theft and reputation and will divert Debenhams operates, a number of preventative industrial financial and management measures are in place.
These include accounting policies espionage resources from more and procedures to ensure, for example, that the retail could beneficial uses, reducing methodology for valuing stock remains appropriate: adversely profitability.
systems access restrictions: expenditure authorisation affect levels: whistleblowing and anti-bribery and corruption Debenhams policies and a code of business conduct, all of which business provide employees with guidelines on how to escalate operations, an issue confidentially.
A variety of monitoring reputation mechanisms are used to identify fraudulent activity and results including data mining across point of sale and head office functions.
As part of the organisation-wide risk assessment, individual managers sign an anti-fraud, bribery and corruption declaration.
Issues identified are investigated and reported to the Audit Committee.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 27
