S d r E a T o B How the Business Manages Risk Effective risk management and control is is also responsible for embedding sound risk management in strategy, planning, budgeting, key to the delivery of our business strategy performance management, and operational processes within their respective Operating and objectives.
Our risk management and Segments and business units.
control processes are designed to identify, The Board and the SET together set the tone and decide the level of risk and control to be assess, mitigate and monitor significant taken in achieving Group and business unit objectives.
risks, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance that the Group will be successful in delivering its objectives.
Board Top Oversight of the Groups risk management and internal controls Down The Board is responsible for the oversight over how the Groups strategic, operational, Audit Committee financial and compliance risks are managed Annual validation of the risk reporting process and for assessing the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control Senior Executive Team Owners of the risk management process and responsible for embedding risk framework.
management into business units Our Senior Executive Team SET owns the Bottom Business Units risk management process and is responsible Up for managing specific Group risks.
The SET Risk Management Process Our strategy informs the setting of the objectives across the business and is widely communicated.
Strategic risks and Identify opportunities are identified as an integral part of the strategy setting process.
The SET provides a pivotal platform for evaluating and managing risk from both a bottom up and top down level and acts as a link between the Board and the business units to ensure management of operational risks is embedded in the business.
Each SET member owns one or more Group risks and also maintains an operational risk register for Internal their business unit.
Control Monitor Assess Framework For the risks which they own, each SET member identifies how the risks are currently controlled, what additional mitigating actions are required, and what monitoring and assurance mechanisms are in place.
The Board conducts a review of the risk management and internal control framework and the SET presents the most significant Group risks, controls and mitigation plans to the Board for review twice a year.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of internal financial controls annually.
Mitigate 58 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline A u s d t i i t n U C o s s m e n m i i s t t u e B e Strategic Report Internal Control Framework Policies and Procedures Improvements in 2015 Our internal control framework is designed Our key financial, legal and compliance The Board appointed Deloitte to undertake to ensure: policies that apply across the Group are: an assessment of the Groups risk management process and a review of proper financial records are maintained: Code of Business Conduct: internal financial controls in the second half of the previous financial year.
the Companys assets are safeguarded: Delegated Authorities: During the current financial year we compliance with laws and regulations: Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption: implemented a number of improvements and Whistleblowing: to the Groups risk management and effective and efficient operation of review processes and to the business Sanctions: and business processes.
units financial controls based on Deloittes Charitable Donations.
The Dechra Values are the foundation of the control framework and it is the Boards Operational Controls Each quarter, business units formally aim that these values should drive the Our key operational control processes are report to Group Finance on the operation behaviours and actions of all employees.
as follows: of their key financial controls.
They also The key elements of the control framework submit and discuss progress reports on Quality Assurance: All our manufacturing are described below: the implementation of agreed control sites have an established Quality improvements.
These form the basis Management System.
These systems of financial controls assurance reports are designed to ensure that our products presented to the Audit Committee.
are manufactured to a high standard and in compliance with the relevant regulatory In April 2015, a Head of Internal Audit and Management requirements.
Structure Risk Assurance was appointed and has presented to the Audit Committee on the Pharmacovigilance: Our regulatory team key changes required to comply with the operates a robust system with a view Policies and Procedures revised UK Corporate Governance Code to ensuring that any adverse reactions which becomes effective for the 2016 Business Planning related to the use of our products are financial year.
reported and dealt with promptly.
Operational Level Controls Plans for 2016 Quality Information Financial Pharmacovigilance Information Technology: Our business Assurance Technology Controls We plan to implement a number of units currently use a number of different Dechra Values changes to our risk management process local financial, manufacturing and and internal control framework to ensure warehouse management systems to compliance with the changes introduced Management Structure support their operations.
We are in the in the revised UK Corporate Governance Our management structure has clearly process of implementing Oracle across Code.
defined reporting lines, accountabilities and the Group.
The new Internal Audit and Risk Assurance Financial Controls: Our financial controls function will provide independent assurance The Group is organised as business units.
are designed to prevent and detect that major business risks are being Each business unit is led by a SET member financial misstatement or fraud and managed appropriately, and that the internal and has its own management team.
operate at three levels: control framework is robust and operating Strategy and Business Planning Entity Level Controls performed effectively.
We have a five year strategic plan which is by senior managers at Group and We also plan to conduct pre-implementation updated and reviewed by the Board twice a business unit level: assurance work on the Oracle system year.
Business objectives and performance Month-end and Year-end procedures configuration and control design.
measures are defined annually together with performed as part of our regular budgets and forecasts.
Monthly business financial reporting and management performance reviews are conducted at both processes: and Group and business unit levels.
Read more on Delivering Our Transactional Level Controls operated The product pipeline is reviewed regularly to: Strategy on pages 14 to 17. on a day-to-day basis.
assess whether products in development are progressing according to schedule: Read our Key Performance Indicators on pages 46 and 47. identify new product ideas and assess fit with our product portfolio: and assess the expected commercial return on new products.
