Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE GROUP: RISK MANAGEMENT AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE This section sets out the policies and procedures applied to RISK manage the groups capital structure and the financial risks MANAGEMENT the group is exposed to.
Diageo considers the following AND CAPITAL components of its balance sheet to be capital: borrowings STRUCTURE and equity.
Diageo manages its capital structure to achieve capital efficiency, provide flexibility to invest through the economic cycle and give efficient access to debt markets at attractive cost levels.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Accounting policies Financial assets and liabilities are initially recorded at fair value including any directly attributable transaction costs.
For those financial assets that are not subsequently held at fair value, the group assesses whether there is evidence of impairment at each balance sheet date.
The group classifies its financial assets and liabilities into the following categories: loans and receivables, available-for-sale investments, financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss and other financial liabilities at amortised cost.
The accounting policies for available-for-sale investments and loans are described in note 12, for trade and other receivables in note 14 and for cash and cash equivalents in note 16.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include derivative assets and liabilities.
Where financial assets or liabilities are eligible to be carried at either amortised cost or fair value the group does not apply the fair value option.
Derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value using a discounted cash flow technique based on market data applied consistently for similar types of instruments.
Gains and losses on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment are taken to the income statement as they arise.
Other financial liabilities are carried at amortised cost unless they are part of a fair value hedge relationship.
The difference between the initial carrying amount of the financial liabilities and their redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the contractual terms using the effective interest rate method.
Hedge accounting The group designates and documents certain derivatives as hedging instruments against changes in fair value of recognised assets and liabilities fair value hedges, highly probable forecast transactions or the cash flow risk from a change in exchange or interest rates cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations net investment hedges.
The effectiveness of such hedges is assessed at inception and at least on a quarterly basis, using prospective and retrospective testing.
Methods used for testing effectiveness include dollar offset, critical terms, regression analysis and hypothetical derivative method.
Fair value hedges are used to manage the currency and or interest rate risks to which the fair value of certain assets and liabilities are exposed.
Changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognised in the income statement, along with any changes in the relevant fair value of the underlying hedged asset or liability.
If such a hedge relationship is fide-designated, fair value movements on the derivative continue to be taken to the income statement while any fair value adjustments made to the underlying hedged item to that date are amortised through the income statement over its remaining life using the effective interest rate method.
Cash flow hedges are used to hedge the foreign currency risk of highly probable future foreign currency cash flows, as well as the cash flow risk from changes in exchange or interest rates.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income, while any ineffective part is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts recorded in other comprehensive income are recycled to the income statement in the same period in which the underlying foreign currency or interest exposure affects the income statement.
Net investment hedges take the form of either foreign currency borrowings or derivatives.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation of net investments are recorded in other comprehensive income and included in the exchange reserve.
Liabilities used as hedging instruments are revalued at closing exchange rates and the resulting gains or losses are also recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that they are effective, with any ineffectiveness taken to the income statement.
Foreign exchange contracts hedging net investments are carried at fair value.
Effective fair value movements are recognised in other comprehensive income, with any ineffectiveness taken to the income statement.
The groups funding, liquidity and exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risks are managed by the groups treasury department.
The treasury department uses a range of financial instruments to manage these underlying risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of board-approved policies and guidelines, which are recommended and monitored by the finance committee, chaired by the chief financial officer.
The policies and guidelines include benchmark exposure and or hedge cover levels for key areas of treasury risk which are periodically reviewed by the board following, for example, significant business, strategic or accounting changes.
The framework provides for limited defined levels of flexibility in execution to allow for the optimal
