s e v i t c e j b o c i g e t a r t S s e v i t c e j b Dignity plc 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Our principal Group risks Principal risks and uncertainties Outlined here is our assessment of the principal risks facing the Group.
In Committed to managing risk assessing which risks should be classified as principal, we effectively and robustly.
assess the probability of the risk materialising and the financial or strategic impact of the risk.
Our approach to risk management Risk assessment The Group has a well established governance structure with Executive Directors and senior management are responsible internal control and risk management systems.
The risk for identifying and assessing business risks.
management process: Identify Provides a framework to identify, assess and manage risks, Risks are identified through discussion with senior management both positive and negative, to the Groups overall strategy and incorporated in the risk register as appropriate.
and the contribution of its individual operations.
Assess Allows the Board to fulfil its governance responsibilities by The potential impact and likelihood of occurrence of each making a balanced and understandable assessment of the risk is considered.
operation of the risk management process and inputs.
Mitigating activities Responsibilities and actions Mitigants are identified against each risk where possible.
The Board The Board is responsible for monitoring the Groups risk and Review and internal audit their mitigants.
The link between each risk and the Groups policies and procedures is identified.
Where relevant, appropriate work is Risk process performed by the Groups internal audit function to assist in Every six months the Audit Committee considers the risk register ensuring the related procedures and policies are appropriately and approves it for adoption by the Board.
understood and operated where they serve to mitigate risks.
Risk management process IDENTIFY & ANALYSE Risks and impact identified Risks mapped to controls currently in place Residual risks prioritised for mitigation Confirmed with the Board Risk management process Remedial action plans implemented Board member accountable ACTION IMPLEMENT Controls identified Existing control enforced and tested Suggested action plans agreed Remedial action plans implemented Options for controls identified and costed Board member accountable Plans approved by the Board Links See Strategy and business model: p. 12 and p. 13 See Our KPIs: p. 14 and p. 15 See Governance: p. 38 to p. 64 o c i g e t a r t S s e v i t c e j b o c i g e t a r t S Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 29 Risks in the context of our strategic objectives Key and link to strategic objective Continue to prioritise excellent client service which we believe will As set out in page 13, we have clear strategic objectives against 1 lead to organic growth.
which we measure our performance.
In the same way that we measure our performance against these objectives, we also 2 Control our costs without compromising the quality of our service.
consider our risks and their potential impact on these objectives 3 Expand our funeral and crematoria portfolios.
as well as our approach to mitigating those risks.
4 Gain new clients through the sale of pre-arranged funeral plans.
5 Increase our returns through efficient capital management.
Operational risk management Strategic Risk and impact Mitigating activities 2015 Commentary Change objective link Significant reduction in the death rate The profile of deaths has historically followed The number of deaths was 1 3 5 There is a risk that the number of deaths in a similar profile to that predicted by the ONS, unusually high.
However, there any year significantly reduces.
This would have giving the Group the ability to plan its is a reasonable chance that a direct result on the financial performance of business accordingly.
2016 may see a significant both the funeral and crematoria divisions.
reduction, offsetting the high number of deaths in 2015.
See Market overview: p. 06 and p. 07 There have been no such 1 3 4 Nationwide adverse publicity This risk is addressed by ensuring appropriate 5 events in the period.
Nationwide adverse publicity for Dignity could policies and procedures are in place, which result in a significant reduction in the number are designed to ensure excellent client service See The Client Survey of funerals or cremations performed in any and careful selection of reputable partners.
For pre-arranged funeral plans, adverse publicity for the Group or one of its partners could result in a reduction in the number of plans sold or an increase in the number of plans cancelled.
This would have a direct and significant impact on the financial performance of that division and the Group as a whole.
Average revenues increased 1 5 Ability to increase average revenues The Group believes that its focus on excellent in line with the Boards per funeral or cremation client service helps to mitigate this risk.
Operating profit growth is in part attributable to increases in the average revenue per funeral See Operating review: or cremation.
There can be no guarantee p. 18 to p. 23 that future average revenues per funeral or cremation will be maintained or increased.
Significant reduction in market share The Group believes that this risk is mitigated Changes in market share were 1 5 It is possible that other external factors, for funeral operations by reputation and in line with the Boards such as new competitors, could result in a recommendation being a key driver to the expectations.
significant reduction in market share within choice of funeral director being used.
For See Operating review: funeral or crematoria operations.
This would crematoria operations this is mitigated by p. 18 to p. 23 have a direct result on the financial difficulties associated with building new performance of those divisions.
Demographic shifts in population In such situations, Dignity would seek to 1 3 5 There have been no material There can be no assurance that demographic follow the population shift.
changes, with satellites being shifts in population will not lead to a reduced opened and businesses demand for funeral services in areas where acquired in appropriate areas.
See Operating review: p. 18 to p. 23 Competition 1 3 4 5 There are barriers to entry in the funeral No major changes noted.
The UK funeral services market and crematoria services market due to the importance Denials of planning market is currently very fragmented.
of established local reputation and in the applications for crematoria in the period demonstrate the crematoria market due to the need to obtain There can be no assurance that there will not barriers to entry.
planning approval for new crematoria and be further consolidation in the industry or that the cost of developing new crematoria.
See Operating review: increased competition in the industry, whether p. 18 to p. 23 in the form of intensified price competition, service competition, over capacity or otherwise, would not lead to an erosion of the Groups market share, average revenues or costs and consequently a reduction in its profitability.
The retention of affinity partners who sell the There are a number of potential affinity Groups pre-arranged funeral plans is essential partners who could replace existing ones to the long-term development of the preor add to existing relationships.
Evidence Key: Change in the year arranged funeral plan division.
The loss of an suggests that such partnerships can and affinity partner could lead to a reduction in the are being developed.
Risk exposure increased amount of profit recognised in that division at the time of sale.
Failure to replenish or increase Risk exposure decreased the bank of pre-arranged funeral plans could affect market share of the funeral division in No significant change the longer-term.
Dignity plc 30 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risk management continued Strategic Risk and impact Mitigating activities 2015 Commentary Change objective link Taxes There are currently specific exemptions No significant changes noted 1 5 There can be no assurance that changes will under European legislation for the UK on in the period.
not be made to UK taxes, such as VAT.
VAT is the VAT treatment of funerals.
Any change not currently chargeable on the majority of the would apply to the industry as a whole Groups services.
The introduction of such a and not just the Group.
tax could therefore significantly increase the cost to clients of the Groups services.
Regulation of pre-arranged funeral plans Any changes would apply to the industry No significant changes noted 4 5 Pre-arranged funeral plans are not a regulated as a whole and not just the Group.
product, but are subject to a specific financial See Market overview: services exemption.
Changes to the basis of p. 06 and p. 07 any regulation could affect the Groups opportunity to sell pre-arranged funeral plans in the future or could result in the Group not being able to draw down the current level of marketing allowances, which would have a direct impact on the profitability of the prearranged funeral plan division.
Regulation of the funeral industry The Group already operates at a very high Whilst regulation has always 1 2 3 5 The Scottish and Westminster parliaments standard, using facilities appropriate for the been considered a risk, the have set up an inquiry to consider issues dignified care of the deceased.
increased rhetoric has led the surrounding funeral poverty.
Group to highlight the matter in its summary of principal The Scottish Government is seeking to enact risks.
The Group would new legislation.
Amongst other things, this welcome the introduction of could lead to the licensing of funeral directors regulation requiring minimum in Scotland and the appointment of a Scottish standards of care.
Regulation would most likely result in increased compliance costs for the industry as a whole.
There is considerable regulation around Changes in the funding of the pre-arranged The latest actuarial valuation 4 5 insurance companies which is designed, funeral plan business of the pre-arranged funeral amongst other things, to ensure that the The Group has given commitments to preplan trusts confirmed that insurance companies meet their obligations.
arranged funeral plan members to provide the Trusts continue to have certain funeral services in the future.
sufficient assets to meet The Trusts hold assets with the objective their liabilities.
of achieving returns slightly in excess of Funding for these plans is reliant on either inflation.
Historically, these assets have insurance companies paying the amounts See Note 29. been heavily weighted towards gilts and owed or the pre-arranged funeral plan Trusts corporate bonds.
The Trustees, who operate having sufficient assets to meet their liabilities independently of the Group, have advised in the future.
that they have implemented a new If this is not the case, then the Group may investment strategy covering a wider range receive a lower amount per funeral than of assets classes.
The new strategy is expected and thus generate lower profits.
intended to enhance investment returns for a similar level of risk, albeit with greater volatility.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 31 How the Group finances its operations The Group finances its operations by a mixture of shareholders funds, Secured Notes and bank borrowings.
This approach seeks to minimise financing costs and generate optimum shareholder value through efficient leveraging of the Groups balance sheet, which is made possible by the stable and predictable cash-generative nature of the business.
It is not the Groups policy to actively trade in derivatives.
Financial risk management 2015 Commentary Strategic Risk and impact Mitigating activities Change objective link No significant changes noted Financial Covenant under the Secured Notes The nature of the Groups debt means 5 in the period.
The Groups Secured Notes requires EBITDA that the denominator is now fixed unless to total debt service to be above 1.5 times.
further Secured Notes are issued in the See Financial review: If this financial covenant which is applicable future.
This means that the covenant p. 24 to p. 27 to the securitised subgroup of Dignity is not headroom will change proportionately achieved, then this may lead to an Event of with changes in EBITDA generated by the Default under the terms of the Secured Notes, securitised subgroup.
which could result in the Security Trustee taking control of the securitisation group on behalf of the Secured Noteholders.
In addition, the Group is required to achieve a more stringent ratio of 1.85 times for the same test in order to be permitted to transfer excess cash from the securitisation group to Dignity plc.
If this stricter test is not achieved, then the Groups ability to pay dividends would be impacted.
Viability statement The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the subsequent three years to December 2018.
The key consideration of viability is the Groups ability to service its A and B Notes as and when those obligations fall due, twice a year.
The Directors have fully considered severe but reasonable scenarios, and the effectiveness of any mitigating actions, on the Groups ability to generate funds to meet those obligations.
Three years has been selected as the appropriate period as the Directors strategic reviews look three years ahead.
In making this statement the Directors have reviewed the overall resilience of the Group and have specifically considered: the Groups current position and trading prospects: the current and ongoing strategy: the Boards appetite for risk: and a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and how they are managed, as explained in this Strategic Report pages 28 to 31.
