Strategic Report 39 Principal Risks Providing better risk insight each year.
RISKS AND OUR BUSINESS MODEL STRATEGIC RISK-OPPORTUNITY TRENDS 2014 15 DS Smith has clear risk management objectives and an established strategy to deliver on these through its core, Risk description risk-managed processes.
At a strategic X 2015 X 2014 level our risk management objectives are to identify the Groups principal risks and 1 Commercial to formulate actions to ensure that the differentiation risks Groups Corporate Plan and strategic 2 Integration risks 4 priorities are aligned with the Groups 3 Acquisition strategy appetite for, and ability to tolerate, 7 4 Capital markets and 5 these risks over a rolling five year period.
liquidity risks 8 Risk identification and assessment is an 5 Eurozone macroeconomic 9 and deflationary risk integral part of our corporate planning process, with the objective that the Board 4 6 Market consolidation risks continues to have improved visibility of the 1 7 Legal Regulatory Groups principal risks and uncertainties, 6 2 Governance risks 9 the consequences of those risks and the 3 1 8 Security of supply risks 2 controls in place to manage them.
9 Sustainability risks 3 6 The Group recognises it is subject to many general risks such as changes in socioBold text indicates those risks which have changed during 2014 15. economic conditions, political, financial, Axes not to scale Increasing Opportunity general regulatory and legislative changes including events that the Group cannot Figure 1 influence, but whose effect can impact on its ability to deliver on the Corporate Plan.
The risks we face, in the markets we choose In 2015, consideration of our critical risks A summary of the Groups principal risks to operate in, do not change significantly as well as our strategic priorities resulted in and uncertainties that are inherent to from year to year, but their influence on our the inclusion of one additional risk classified our business model and that can directly Corporate Plan can vary in magnitude and within the context of European economic impact the successful execution of the frequency and this influences the way we uncertainty most notably Eurozone Groups strategy are shown in the following seek to reduce or exploit risks in the pursuit deflationary risks and the separation of schedule.
They are regularly monitored by of our objectives.
The relative influences of acquisition and market consolidation risks the Board and the General Management each principal risk on our Corporate Plan are into two distinct risk categories.
Team GMT in terms of how they are reflected in the Boards current view on the managed and the mitigation strategies risk trends and are categorised as stable, adopted to build greater resilience against increasing or decreasing: as shown in risks that could disrupt achievement of Figure 1. our strategic priorities.
com Increasing Risk 40 Strategic Report Principal Risks continued RISK APPETITE AND TOLERANCE MANAGING OUR CONNECTED RISKS The principal risks within our business model reflect the Groups view that risks, by their very nature, also bring the potential for reward, and that whilst there are some risks that the Group chooses to avoid, there are Acquisition other risks that we choose to manage and Strategy Risks others that the Group actively accepts and seeks in pursuit of our strategic priorities and targets.
The Group heat map is a way of presenting how we balance risk and reward Securities of within the defined criteria of the Group risk Supply Risks appetite and tolerance statements.
This Integration allows the Group to take certain risks where Risks it has management know-how, experience and the operational skill to manage them Sustainability Risks Legal and thereby ensure the Group can deliver Regulatory Governance on its Corporate Plan.
Risks Market Consolidation RISK MANAGEMENT Risks EFFECTIVENESS Commercial Our risk management process considers Business Di erentiation our principal risks within the context of a Risks portfolio of connected risks.
Members of our GMT take a lead sponsorship role in assessing each risk portfolio so that there remains a close connection between the Capital potential disruption that could be caused Markets and by one or more of these risks transpiring Liquidity Risks and how our operations can adapt to avoid, Eurozone manage or react to the consequences of Macroeconomic and fide ationary changing events.
The overall intention of Risks our risk management efforts is to minimise the impact of any prolonged adverse risk materialising in our Corporate Plan period.
Size of circle Risk impact Our process, as defined last year in our Line thickness Strength of connection Annual Report, remained in force during Figure 2 2015 with Group risks being considered by the GMT, and risk dashboards maintained and reviewed by the Group, each Division, We continue to recognise the significant measures taken to manage the delivery and, in the case of Packaging, each region.
interdependencies between our principal of plan targets are robust and facilitates These risk dashboards are the result of input risks.
Our connections diagram Figure 2 stronger GMT and Division-level discussions and challenge undertaken by the senior highlights how the Group considers the on risk and the appropriateness of our executives throughout the Group.
They are consequences of one risk as a potential current controls.
maintained and revised by considering not trigger of, or influence on another.
By only the risks that have the potential to understanding the relationships between disrupt the Groups planned targets but our key risks, the Group considers it is better also the potential opportunities available.
placed to ensure that the strategy and the Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 41 To realise the potential To double the size and To delight our customers of our people profitability of the business COMMERCIAL INTEGRATION RISKS ACQUISITION STRATEGY RISKS DIFFERENTIATION RISKS We fail to anticipate and are Business process failure and Failure to target acceptable acquisition ill-equipped to meet the demand Group cultural disintegration.
Failure to implement functional Acquisitions do not deliver on the Our customer base rejects organisation hierarchy in order key corporate metrics.
our differentiated product to support integration synergies and service offers.
as the Group expands into new geographies.
Differentiation fails to enhance volumes and margins.
Resilience Resilience Resilience Long-term commitment to properly Continuing to develop our talent, Acquired additional management experience resource research and development, strengthen our leadership capability, and processes for sourcing, assessing and taking concepts through to commercial our employee skill base to connect executing sound transactions.
implementation within a clear defined all our people so we are seen as the Country and market entry strategies methodology.
employer of choice in our markets.
based on a strategy to strengthen our A shared strategy for innovation across Our OWN IT!
employee communications supply cycle model.
our businesses which is rolled out via campaign continues as the cornerstone Improving internal processes using our systems and the network of design of our cultural integration strategy.
our acquisition pipeline and executing centres that we are investing in.
Establishing a process for embedding more efficiently.
"A well-established process for the a world class employee safety culture, Acquisition execution team focused successful introduction and management common reporting and strengthening on effective bolt-on"" acquisition of new products and services."
Extending our product and services offering Establishing a performance and talent Specific investments in mature markets.
through the design and development management process where employees of packaging consultancy services.
and management can gauge development Targeted growth where higher than opportunities, produce and review Eurozone benchmark.
Undertake extensive customer succession plans and monitor successes.
engagement work to ensure our innovation Board Risk Monitoring is aligned to future customer needs.
Board Risk Monitoring Regular reviews undertaken as part of Board review of the Groups human resources the Boards review of the Corporate Plan.
Board Risk Monitoring programme on talent management, Regular updates of acquisition opportunities Board review through presentations embedding the performance reviews and including evaluations and execution risk.
on specific packaging sectors including competencies framework.
The Board also a review of industrial and performance reviewed the results of the employee packaging strategy, risks and opportunities.
opinion survey undertaken in 2014. dssmith.
com 42 Strategic Report Principal Risks continued To double the size and profitability of the business continued CAPITAL MARKET AND EUROZONE MACRO-ECONOMIC MARKET LIQUIDITY RISKS AND DEFLATIONARY RISKS CONSOLIDATION RISKS Unable to meet funding Our relative market performance in Our relative competitive position needs without incurring core Eurozone countries is affected is weakened by competitor and unacceptable costs.
by a prolonged ceiling on growth supplier influences and forces and an adverse foreign exchange a material volume drop and Unplanned decreases and or position results in a disproportionate prolonged margin squeeze in one changes in funding sources negative impact to earnings.
or more of our principal territories.
restricts our financial flexibility to meet plan targets.
Resilience Resilience Resilience Activities are focused on securing Management teams continue to Experienced leadership team participates access to debt capital and active lead projects based on all forms of in the review of consolidation implications management of our bank relations cost optimisation and operational and ready to react with contingency and the bank market in general.
Centralised treasury function Implementation of specific Divisional continues to focus on cash and Continue to invest in a strategy to competitiveness projects including cash pooling so that surplus funds address any long-term Eurozone cost optimisation, investment in new repay drawings under committed currency imbalances within our technology, site expansion and location bank facilities to ensure adequate portfolio by managing the potential realignment to support the volume and financial liquidity.
impacts of short-term slower-growth quality demands of our customer base.
markets with opportunities in other Maintaining strong core banking Board Risk Monitoring higher-growth geographies.
relationships assures us that there Regular Board updates provided as are few limitations for raising Board Risk Monitoring part of acquisition reviews.
additional financings for the Group.
Board meeting reviews on performance and forecasts of the business activities Strong engagement with providers in relation to the macroeconomic of equity capital.
environment provided by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Board Risk Monitoring Director at each Board meeting.
Audit Committee review and recommendation to the Board regarding going concern.
Regular reviews of liquidity schedules, cash flows and covenant headroom.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 43 To lead the way in recycling LEGAL REGULATORY SECURITY OF SUPPLY RISKS SUSTAINABILITY RISKS GOVERNANCE RISKS A systematic failure of, or discovery We fail to manage input price risk Our inability to meet increasing of a systemic weakness identified and processing cost escalation over customer requirement for higher in, our internal systems of control in the medium-term.
sustainability standards or reach one or more critical functional or and adequately disclosing our We fail to adapt adequately to operational areas and or where sustainability targets, indicators changes in installed paper production adverse regulatory legislative and obligations.
change affects the fundamental basis of our business model.
We remain passive and fail to respond to external regulatory influence and change.
Resilience Resilience Resilience Clear standard of ethics and behaviour Hold a short position on internal sourcing Disclose our sustainability data to provide as defined in our Operating Framework.
of paper to give assurance of security of visibility and assurance to our stakeholders supply, while still securing lowest cost of by publishing targets for our emissions of Structured training programmes for overall supply.
greenhouse gases, water and waste.
all employees on competition law and anti-bribery and corruption with supporting Leverage the scale of our own recycled Continue to develop our leadership presentations within the Group.
paper sourcing, paper production with capability to implement our strategy of external market to generate a cost and improving the sustainability characteristics Focused Divisional internal audit reviews.
quality best fit given our geographical of our supply cycle model.
Collaboration with associations and footprint.
Ensuring the operational integrity of stakeholders to monitor and understand Commercial strategy aims to recover paper a single Environmental Management the issues and implications of regulatory price changes though indexed contracts and legislative amendments.
Improvements to the quality and content Board Risk Monitoring of our current policies and the adoption Reduced recovery time on input cost Board review and approval of the of new policies continues.
rises by our ability to address customer Groups Sustainability Policy.
costs in the packaging supply cycle.
External bodies are fully engaged to undertake compliance and Developing our long-term strategy for certification testing.
paper sourcing to meet projected demand on production volumes.
Detailed and extensive arrangements maintained for the management of health, Accessing additional recycled paper safety and environment, product integrity material outside of the UK through and safety governing all Group operations.
development of our Recycling Key relations maintained with trade commercial service model.
associations and their influence on Board Risk Monitoring European legislation.
Regular discussion at Board meetings in Board Risk Monitoring relation to acquisition updates with specific Regular Audit Committee reviews specific discussion on security of supply of existing to the results of internal control reports.
materials and Corporate Plan targets.
Regular reviews of Health and Safety performance at Board meetings including update on the establishment of a Safety Leadership Group and implementation of a Group-wide reporting tool.
