Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board has overall responsibility for risk management, internal control and business continuity and determines the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take.
The Board oversees a systematic risk management process to provide assurance that both strategic and operational objectives can be achieved and that the brand remains secure for the long term.
Link to strategy In addition, the Audit & Risk Committee satisfies itself that LFL store sales growth all strategic or material risks are appropriately monitored by National coverage from rolling out senior management, directing external assurance resources to new stores high priority areas.
"Growing sales and profit in the home delivery channel 3 4,. """
&803, A regular Risk Forum has been established, chaired by a dedicated Risk Manager, aimed at the identication, assessment, mitigation and ongoing monitoring of risks.
Departmental Risk Champions who attend the Risk Forum evaluate specic risks against likelihood and impact criteria to establish their potential severity.
A key output from this forum is a register of strategic risks.
These risks are assigned owners from the Executive Board whose responsibility it is to manage and mitigate these risks.
The Executive Board considers at monthly meetings the extent and effectiveness of controls in these areas as well as reviewing the process of risk management through the Risk Forum.
The Group Board gains assurance through twice yearly reviews, as well as by regular challenge to the executive team.
Our assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business is set out below together with mitigation: BRAND REPUTATION, PRODUCT AND SERVICE QUALITY Performance indicator: Link to strategy: Impact compared to 2013 14: Product complaints and recalls Executive responsibility: Chief Executive DESCRIPTION MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2014 15 The quality and safety of X We have a range of policies specifying the X Ethical code of conduct upgraded to our products and services quality of products and production processes explicitly cover human trafcking and Fire & is essential to the business.
If our quality standards fall X We conduct periodic CSR audits on all stock X Committed suppliers and overseas agents there is a risk that individuals suppliers in line with ETI guidelines.
working directly with factories to deliver could be harmed and or that more green ratings.
X We operate a full test schedule for all new reputational damage could products and on a sample basis for ongoing X Investment in the size and capability of the lead to consumers, colleagues lines, overseen by our specialist Product Product Technology team.
and other stakeholders losing Technology team.
DPOmEFODF JO UIF %VOFMN X Food hygiene is maintained through the brand.
adoption of clear operating guidelines contained in our food safety manual.
Staff certication is compulsory and risk assessments, equipment inspections and compliance audits are performed regularly to ensure standards are maintained.
com Stock code: DNLM 24 STRATEGIC REPORT COMPETITION AND CUSTOMERS Performance indicator: Link to strategy: Impact compared to 2013 14: Market share Executive responsibility: Chief Executive DESCRIPTION MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2014 15 The Group competes with a X The Board continually monitors Group X Dunelm leads the UK Homewares market wide variety of retailers across performance within the Homewares market with an increased share of 7.7%.
multiple channels and across and against specic competitive threats.
X Continuing product innovation in existing a broad spectrum of priceX Continuous brand tracking also operates categories and strengthened seasonal points.
Failure to maintain to gauge relative customer perception and campaigns.
a competitive offer in the experience together with in-store customer X Creation of Customer Insight team.
Homewares market on multiple clinics.
X Investment in improved customer service fronts price, range, quality and X Investment in marketing designed to through our Customer First programme.
service and or to respond to communicate our credentials on range, Marketing investment has increased to 1.8% changing customer needs could choice and value.
NBUFSJBMMZ JNQBDU QSPmUBCJMJUZ X We continually focus on new product and limit opportunities for X Successful launch of new web platform.
development, both in existing and new growth.
homewares categories, to strengthen our specialist proposition.
X We have invested signicantly in the frontend web platform, fullment infrastructure and people capabilities to enhance our multi-channel customer offer.
REGULATORY, ENVIRONMENT & COMPLIANCE Performance indicator: Link to strategy: Impact compared to 2013 14: Prosecution and other Executive responsibility: regulatory action Chief Executive DESCRIPTION MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2014 15 The Group risks incurring X We operate a number of policies and codes X Ethical Trading policies have been reissued penalties, damages, claims of practice outlining mandatory requirements and agreed with all stock suppliers and and reputational damage within the business governing behaviours in regular suppliers of non-stock goods and arising from failure to comply all key areas.
These are regularly reviewed and services.
with legislative or regulatory updated.
X Training on the requirements of the Bribery requirements across many X Operational management are also responsible Act and Competition Law is in place for areas including, but not for liaising with the Company Secretary and all relevant colleagues and policies are limited to, trading, health external advisers to ensure that potential communicated to all suppliers.
and safety, employment law, issues from new legislation are identied and X Human Resources policies and health and data protection, Bribery Act, managed.
safety policies and procedures are kept under advertising, human rights and X We have a whistle-blowing procedure and constant review and regular compliance the environment.
helpline which enables colleagues to raise audits have been completed.
For further concerns in confidence.
details please see our Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 10 to 18.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 25 Principal Risks and Uncertainties CONTINUED 5 4:45&.
"4 4& 4 5 7& %""5"" "" % $:#&3 3 4, Performance indicator: Link to strategy: Impact compared to 2013 14: Number of major Executive responsibility: incidents Chief Executive DESCRIPTION MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2014 15 Dunelm is dependent on the X All business critical systems are based on X We have further strengthened the depth and continued availability, integrity established, industry leading package capability of our IT function particularly in the and capability of key information solutions, with full support in place."
areas of IT Risk, Data Security and Enterprise systems and technology.
X We have a disaster recovery strategy A major incident including designed to ensure continuity of trade.
X We have completed a full review of a cyber-attack, sustained authorisation hierarchies across our main X Authorisation controls and access to performance problems or failure enterprise wide SAP system.
sensitive transactions are kept under to keep technology up to date constant review.
X A cross-functional Information Security DPVME DPOTUJUVUF B TJHOJmDBOU Steering Group has been established to threat to the business, at least in oversee our data security.
COMMODITY PRICES Performance indicator: Link to strategy: Impact compared to 2013 14: Gross margin Executive responsibility: CFO DESCRIPTION MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2014 15 Failure to anticipate or manage X Stock cover provides the business with time X Foreign currency hedges are in place cost price volatility in key areas to assess and respond to sustained periods covering c 70% of expected purchases in such as freight, raw materials, of cost price movement.
energy and exchange rates may X Dunelms scale, growth and increased buying X New freight deals have been agreed with lead to pressure on margins and power allows it to secure supply of key raw major shipping lines for 2015 16.
BEWFSTFMZ JNQBDU UIF mOBODJBM materials at competitive prices.
X Commodity price tracking has been results.
X Hedging is in place for freight, energy and extended to cover all key materials to assist foreign exchange to help mitigate volatility planning and negotiation.
X Specialist procurement resource and tight contract management.
com Stock code: DNLM 26 STRATEGIC REPORT PORTFOLIO EXPANSION Performance indicator: Link to strategy: Impact compared to 2013 14: Number of new store openings Executive responsibility: and pipeline Chief Executive DESCRIPTION MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2014 15 Availability of vacant or new X Our property team actively monitors X We have opened 12 new stores in the year.
retail space in the right location availability of retail space with the support of X The Executive Board has conducted regular is essential to deliver our professional advisers.
reviews of sites in key catchment areas.
Inability to secure X Financial modelling helps us assess the X We have legally completed on nine new or develop the required retail viability of potential sites.
stores due to open in 2015 16 and beyond.
trading space to deliver our X The Groups strong cash generation and superstore format will limit our funding headroom provide an attractive pace of expansion or force us covenant to landlords and the ability to to compromise our offer.
acquire freehold units if appropriate.
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION & INFRASTRUCTURE Performance indicator: Link to strategy: Impact compared to 2013 14: n a Executive responsibility: Chief Executive DESCRIPTION MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2014 15 The Group could suffer the X Physical infrastructure Head ofce, X Enhanced Crisis Management and Disaster loss of a major facility with a workroom, multi-channel and distribution Recovery process launched across the consequent impact on shortcentre activities are all subject to disaster business.
term trading or diversion of recovery plans and could all operate from X Desk-top simulations exercises completed to focus from longer-term strategy fall back facilities.
increase Crisis Management Team capability.
This could X Suppliers The Group seeks to mitigate X Alternative supply sources routes have been NBUFSJBMMZ BGGFDU UIF QSPmUBCJMJUZ this risk by limiting the dependency identied for key product categories.
on individual suppliers and by actively X New partnerships have been agreed with managing key supplier relationships.
The Group could suffer the loss local agents to bolster sourcing and supply of a major supply partner also capabilities in the Far East.
X We have re-sourced a number of ranges, including one whole category where our UK supplier was unable to provide satisfactory service.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 27 Principal Risks and Uncertainties CONTINUED FINANCE AND TREASURY Performance indicators: Link to strategy: Impact compared to 2013 14: Operating cash Executive responsibility: conversion Chief Financial officer Banking Covenants Loan Headroom DESCRIPTION MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2014 15 Lack of access to appropriate X The Group has a 150m, five-year revolving X New capital policy agreed by the Board to levels of cash resources credit facility in place until March 2020. operate with net debt between PS FYQPTVSF UP TJHOJmDBOU 0.25 0.75 historic EBITDA.
X Further, uncommitted borrowing facilities variations in interest rates or have been agreed for possible short-term X New five year debt facility agreed with exchange rates could have working capital requirements.
an impact on the Groups X Dunelm works with a syndicate of long-term, X Net Debt at the end of the year was 74.8m operations and growth plans.
"0.52 EBITDA X A Group Treasury Policy is in place to govern levels of debt, cash management strategies and to control foreign exchange exposures. """
&: 1&340 &- Performance indicators: Link to strategy: Impact compared to 2013 14: Colleague retention Executive responsibility: Chief Executive DESCRIPTION MITIGATION PROGRESS IN 2014 15 The success of Dunelm is X The composition of the Executive team is X The Executive Board has been strengthened dependent upon the availability kept under constant review by the Board to through the appointments of a new CEO of talented senior management ensure that it is appropriate to deliver the and other senior appointments, including a and specialist colleagues.
The growth plans of the business.
success of the business could X Succession plans and annual appraisals are X Investments have been made in both depth be impacted if it fails to attract, in place across the Group.
and capability of teams in key areas such as retain and motivate high calibre IT, Buying & Merchandising and Logistics.
X The Executive Board seeks to develop high colleagues.
calibre individuals through sponsored talent management and succession planning.
X The Groups remuneration policy detailed on page 50 is designed to ensure that high calibre executives are attracted and retained.
Lock-in of senior management is supported by awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan and Company Share Option Plan.
com Stock code: DNLM 28 GOVERNANCE Governance Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 29
