Risk Risk management framework The Group faces a number of risks which, if they arise, could affect its ability to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature of these risks and ensuring appropriate mitigating actions are in place to manage them effectively.
Risks specific to the function's activities are managed Risk appetite The level of risk it is considered appropriate to accept in within the function on an ongoing basis with regular follow-up by the risk team.
achieving easyJet's strategic objectives is reviewed and validated by the Board on an annual basis.
The appropriateness of the The most significant risks from each function based on mitigating actions is determined in accordance with the Board materiality, cross-functional impact and or those which have approved risk appetite for the relevant area.
common themes across the business are reviewed by the Risk Evaluation Group, which consists of members of senior Risk management process management from each function.
This Group's role is to The diagram below sets out easyJet's risk management process.
debate, agree and prioritise the principal business risks.
This is co-ordinated by the risk team, which reports to the Chief Financial Officer.
The key elements of the process are: These risks, which form the basis for the principal risks and uncertainties detailed in this section, are challenged and The risk management process begins with the identification of validated by the Executive Management Team and the Board.
significant risks by each function.
Risk identification workshops are run to identify matters which could materially impact on The principal business risks are monitored and managed the functions or the wider business.
These are attended by throughout the year by the Executive Management Team Executive Management Team members and senior managers.
and the Board with the risk team.
Risk reports are provided to the Board on a quarterly basis as a minimum.
Risks are assessed taking into account the potential impact and likelihood of the risks occurring and the key mitigations In addition to supporting the Board, the risk team supports the identified.
The current level of risk is compared to the Board's business in its management of risks relating to key projects, risk appetite to determine whether further mitigations are third parties, countries and bases.
Turn to page: 56 for further details on Risk Management and Internal control Risk identification & assessment OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT RISKS FINANCIAL PROCESS RISKS REPUTATIONAL FEEDBACK FROM THE BOARD RISKS Challenge & ownership RISK SPONSORSHIP EVALUATION EXECUTIVE GROUP AND RISK SAFETY PLC MANAGEMENT APPETITE RISKS BOARD PRIORITISES AND TEAM FILTERS PRINCIPAL ASSESSMENT BUSINESS RISKS PROJECT FEEDBACK FROM THE BOARD PROGRAMME RISKS COUNTRY BASE RISKS THIRD PARTY RISKS A separate management system monitors flight safety risks easyJet's safety process is described in more detail on pages 31 to 32.
Risk identification & assessment easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 24 Strategic report Governance Accounts Principal risks and uncertainties The risks and uncertainties described below are considered, at this Link to strategy: point in time, to have the greatest effect on easyJet's strategic Build strong number 1 and 2 network positions Disciplined use of capital 1 4 objectives.
This list is not intended to be exhaustive.
Whilst easyJet Drive demand, conversion and yields Culture, People & Platform 2 5 can monitor risks and prepare for adverse scenarios, the ability 3 Maintain cost advantage to affect the core drivers of many risks is not within the Group's control, for example adverse weather, pandemics, acts of terrorism, changes in government regulation and macroeconomic issues.
SAFETY FIRST Risk description Mitigation easyJet's number one priority is the safety and security of its customers Major safety incident A major safety incident such as a hull loss and people.
could adversely affect easyJet's reputation and A Safety Committee a committee of the Board provides oversight of its operational and financial performance.
The the management of easyJet's safety processes and systems impact of such an incident would be heightened if easyJet failed to react promptly and deal with Turn to pages: 52-53 it effectively.
for further details Link to strategy: A Safety Review Board at Executive Management Team level is responsible 1 2 3 4 5 for directing overall safety policy and governance.
Safety Action Groups from across the airline are responsible for the identification, evaluation and control of safety-related risks.
easyJet operates a Safety Management System using a leading software system SafetyNet.
This is used to: collect and analyse safety data enabling potential areas of risk to be projected : and enable learning from easyJet and industry events incidents to be captured and embedded into future risk mitigations.
A robust incident reporting process and 'Just Culture' are in place.
Turn to page: 31 for further details easyJet has an emergency response process and performs regular crisis management exercises.
Hull all risks and liabilities insurance including spares is held.
easyJet has an industry-leading fatigue risk management system and is currently implementing the EASA Flight Time Limitations regulations.
A Security Decision Making Group, comprising the Chairman, Chief Executive, Security threat or attack appropriate members of the Executive Management Team and other senior Failure to identify or prevent a major securitymanagement, determines whether easyJet should continue to operate in related threat or attack, or react immediately countries or areas affected by security-related incidents.
and effectively, could adversely affect easyJet's reputation and its operational and financial The Director of Safety and Security and the Head of Security work with performance.
authorities and governments around easyJet's network to assess whether security measures are effective and in compliance with regulatory requirements.
Link to strategy: A significant amount of work is carried out with the aim of enhancing: 1 2 3 4 5 early identification of developing and emerging security risks: the active management of security risks: the methods for reducing the impact of any security-related incident: and the Group's security culture and awareness.
com 25 Risk continued OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Risk description Mitigation There are processes in place, and clear roles and responsibilities within teams Significant network disruption A number of factors could lead to widespread across the business, to manage significant disruption.
disruption to easyJet's network, including forces A business disruption team, which includes senior management from relevant of nature extreme weather, volcanic ash, etc.
business areas, determines and initiates required action.
terrorism, epidemics pandemics or the closure of a key airport.
A business continuity programme is in place.
Significant disruption to the network could Board policy is to maintain target liquidity at 4 million per aircraft, which is significantly adversely affect easyJet's reputation supported by a $500 million five-year revolving credit facility provided by a and its operational and financial performance.
This allows the Group to better manage the impact of downturns in business or temporary curtailment of activities.
Link to strategy: In addition, easyJet holds business disruption insurance.
1 2 3 4 Critical IT system failure and continuity Key systems are hosted across two data centres in two distinct locations, with of services failover arrangements between them, or within third-party provider locations, easyJet is dependent on a number of key for which failover arrangements are contractually agreed with them.
IT disaster recovery plans are in place and tested regularly to identify areas for improvement in resilience.
A loss of critical systems or access to facilities, including the website, could lead to significant An IT incident management team is in place to respond rapidly to any disruption and could have an adverse unforeseen incidents that may arise.
operational, reputational and financial impact.
If there is a need to relocate critical staff due to the loss of facilities, alternative Link to strategy: sites are available at short notice.
2 3 5 A Steering Group, consisting of the Executive Management Team and key Delivery of projects supporting the business strategy senior management, provides challenge to project teams, monitors progress and ensures that decisions are made at the appropriate level.
The business is undertaking a number of key projects and programmes to deliver Key IT projects or programmes have additional oversight through the IT key elements of the strategy.
Governance and Oversight Committee a committee of the Board.
If these projects and programmes fail to deliver Turn to page: 59 the business benefits and cost savings planned, for further details easyJet could fall short of its planned financial results.
A portfolio management office is in place to oversee delivery of projects and Link to strategy: programmes, and track budgets and realisation of benefits.
1 2 3 4 5 A project management framework, which sets out the governance requirements, key processes and controls, is followed by all projects and programmes.
easyJet has a centralised procurement team which aims to provide the Group Third-party service providers easyJet has entered into agreements with with competitive supply options.
third-party service providers for services Following the supplier selection process the contract is managed according covering a significant proportion of its to easyJet's supplier management framework, whose key principles cover operational and cost base.
defined ownership and accountability, a governance framework and Failure to adequately manage third party effective communication.
performance could adversely affect easyJet's Alternative service providers are identified and assessed within the major markets reputation and its operational and in which easyJet operates.
Robust transition plans are agreed in the event of switching suppliers to enable Link to strategy: an acceptable level of service to be maintained.
3 5 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 26 Strategic report Governance Accounts Link to strategy: Build strong number 1 and 2 network positions Disciplined use of capital 1 4 Drive demand, conversion and yields 2 Culture, People & Platform 5 Maintain cost advantage 3 OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE CONTINUED Risk description Mitigation Industrial action As easyJet operates across Europe there are 18 unions and nine representative easyJet, and the aviation industry in general, bodies across eight countries of which crew are members.
easyJet seeks to has a significant number of employees who are maintain positive working relationships with all trade unions and other members of trade unions.
Industrial action taken representative bodies.
by easyJet employees, or by the employees of Each of the countries in which easyJet operates has localised employment terms key third-party service providers, could impact on and conditions.
This mitigates the risk of large-scale internal industrial action easyJet's ability to maintain its flight schedules.
occurring at the same time.
This could adversely affect easyJet's reputation Processes are in place to adapt to disruptions as a result of industrial action.
and its operational and financial performance.
Link to strategy: 2 3 5 Senior management succession easyJet's aim is to develop talent from within.
There are several talent development programmes in place for individuals who have been identified easyJet's current and future success is reliant on having the right people with the right capabilities for fast-tracking into more senior roles as vacancies arise.
In addition, a management development programme is in place to develop Failure to develop and grow the capabilities people management and senior leadership capabilities.
These programmes and behaviours required of senior management operate at various levels within the organisation.
so that there are clear successors for all key There is an annual succession planning process.
business roles, could adversely affect easyJet's ability to deliver its strategic objectives.
Link to strategy: 5 The Board considers that the efficiencies achieved by operating a single fleet Single fleet risk easyJet is dependent on Airbus as its sole type outweigh the risks associated with easyJet's single fleet strategy.
The Airbus A320 family which includes the A319 is one of the two primary fleets used for short-haul travel.
There are approximately 6,000 A320 family aircraft There are significant cost and efficiency advantages of a single fleet, however, operating with a proven track record for reliability.
there are two main associated risks: easyJet operates a rigorous established aircraft maintenance programme.
technical or mechanical issues that could To mitigate the potential valuation risks, easyJet regularly reviews the secondground the full fleet, or part of the fleet, hand market and has a number of different options when looking at fleet which could cause negative perception: and exit strategies.
Leasing facilitates the exit of A319 aircraft from the fleet by valuation risks which crystallise when aircraft transferring residual value risk, and also provides flexibility in managing exit the fleet.
The main exposure at this time the fleet size.
is with the ageing A319 fleet, where easyJet is reliant on the future demand for secondhand aircraft.
com 27 Risk continued STRONG BALANCE SHEET Risk description Mitigation Financial risk The Finance Committee a committee of the Board oversees the Group's easyJet is exposed to a variety of financial risks treasury and funding policies and activities.
which could give rise to adverse pressure on Turn to page: 59 the financial performance of the Company, for further details e. g. costs, revenue.
Market risks significant sudden increases in This includes: jet fuel prices, currency fluctuations or interest a treasury policy setting out Board approved strategies for foreign exchange rates which have not been adequately and fuel hedging, along with liquidity, interest rate management, counterparties protected through hedging and cash deposit limits: and Counterparty risk non-performance of reviewing and reporting on compliance with Board treasury policies.
counterparties used for depositing surplus funds e. g. money market funds, The policy is to hedge within a percentage band for a rolling 24-month period.
bank deposits Board policy is to maintain target liquidity at 4 million per aircraft, which is Liquidity risk misjudgement in the level supported by a $500 million five-year revolving credit facility provided by of liquidity resulting in inability to meet a group of 12 relationship banks.
This allows the Group to better manage contractual contingent financial obligations the impact of downturns in business or temporary curtailment of activities.
or the inability to fund the business A strong balance sheet supports the business through fluctuations in when needed.
Link to strategy: 3 4 REPUTATIONAL RISKS Risk description Mitigation easyJet has an active shareholder engagement programme led by its investor Major shareholder and brand owner relationship relations team.
As part of that programme easyJet engages with easyGroup Holdings Limited on a regular basis alongside its other major shareholders.
easyJet has two major shareholders easyGroup Holdings Limited and Polys Holding Limited In addition to engaging with easyGroup as part of the shareholder engagement which, as a concert party, control 33.73% of programme, the Company has a relationship agreement with easyGroup and its ordinary shares.
Shareholder activism could Polys Holdings in line with the controlling shareholder regime as set out in the adversely impact the reputation of easyJet Financial Conduct Authority's Listing Rules.
and cause a distraction to management.
Turn to page: 83 easyJet does not own its Company name or for further details branding, which is licensed from easyGroup Ltd.
The licence includes certain minimum service Representatives from the Board and senior management take collective levels that easyJet must meet in order to retain responsibility for addressing issues arising from any activist approach adopted the right to use the name and brand.
The easyJet by the major shareholder.
The objective is to proactively address issues before brand could also be impacted through the actions they arise and anticipate and plan for potential future activism.
of easyGroup or other easyGroup licensees.
The brand licence agreement with easyGroup Ltd provides for the regular Link to strategy: meeting of senior representatives from both sides to actively manage brand- 4 related issues as they arise.
Such meetings occur on a quarterly basis and have proven effective.
easyJet also monitors compliance with brand licence service levels and has a right to take steps to remedy any instance of non-compliance.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 28 Strategic report Governance Accounts Link to strategy: Build strong number 1 and 2 network positions Disciplined use of capital 1 4 Drive demand, conversion and yields 2 Culture, People & Platform 5 Maintain cost advantage 3 REPUTATIONAL RISKS CONTINUED Risk description Mitigation Cyber threat and information security An Information Security Steering Group, chaired by the General Counsel, easyJet receives most of its revenue through oversees any developments in data threats and controls and determines credit card transactions and operates as an whether appropriate responses are being taken to them.
It faces both external There is a dedicated information security team to monitor and manage cyber threats and internal risks to its data information security risk.
The following controls are in place: and systems.
monitoring of secure systems against unauthorised access: A security breach could negatively impact reviewing the security of internal systems and easyJet.
com through quarterly easyJet's reputation and have an adverse vulnerability scanning: operational and financial impact.
periodic mandatory employee security training to maintain staff awareness: Link to strategy: considering information security risks within procurement processes and 2 3 5 the introduction of new systems and IT services: monitoring and control of scanning software for fraudulent customer activity by the revenue protection team: and providing robust physical security at head office buildings.
Given the nature of this risk the appropriateness of the controls is under continuous review.
easyJet seeks to have a rapid response to any such activity that may impact Competition and industry consolidation easyJet operates in competition with both easyJet's ability to grow the business.
flag carriers and other low-cost airlines.
Competitor and consolidation activity is monitored, enabling key routes positions to be readily defended.
easyJet's key competitive advantages include its network, cost base, digital innovation and The Network Development Forum, a cross-functional panel of senior executives, efficient and robust capital structure.
Failure approves new bases and the allocation of assets around the network.
to retain these advantages or react quickly to competitor changes could have an adverse Fleet framework arrangements, together with the Group's leasing policy, provide financial impact.
easyJet with significant flexibility in respect of scaling the fleet according to business requirements.
Industry consolidation could also affect the competitive environment in a number of Strong cost control is a key behaviour across the Company, with initiatives to markets.
This could cause a loss of market drive cost reduction and improve efficiency in targeted areas.
position and erosion of revenue.
Link to strategy: 1 2 3 The Regulatory Affairs Group co-ordinates easyJet's role in influencing future Legislative and regulatory risks easyJet is exposed to legislative and regulatory and existing policy and regulations which affect the airline industry.
oversight across its network and all countries where Country oversight Boards are established for easyJet's main markets, raising it sells its product via a native language website.
This awareness of potential changes and impacts in the different countries.
Industry will increase as easyJet grows geographically and bodies and legal advisers in-country are also used to understand and develop the number of local language websites increases.
appropriate responses to new legislation.
Failure to comply with legislative and regulatory easyJet has an in-house legal team to monitor compliance with formal requirements or interpretations thereof, such as regulatory requirements.
local consumer laws, passenger compensation for certain long flight delays and cancellations, and environmental and airport regulations, in the jurisdictions in which easyJet operates could have an adverse reputational and financial impact.
In the event the UK votes to leave the European Union, the terms of exit could have implications for easyJet to continue to operate the network it does currently.
