Risk management report Summary of key activities during 2015 Appointment and transition of Aon UK as our global insurance broker, Risk context and renewal of the Groups insurance programme including policy Like other chemical companies, the operations and activities of Elementis review and cover enhancements.
are exposed to different types of risk that, individually or in combination, Two risk workshops at management team level to focus on assessing have the potential to harm the Group with varying degrees of severity.
business viability, with presentations from specialists in Aons UK Risks that are not appropriately managed or mitigated could cause ERMteam.
financial, operational and reputational damage and threaten the Groups Formal management and Board risk register review process: longer term viability.
assessing risk severity and likelihood, reviewing risk mitigation actions and controls, and looking at scenario analysis and stress-testing The approach at Elementis is to view risk as being inherent in all business particularly for financial impact on profitability, liquidity and solvency.
operations and activities, whether deriving from an external or internal Board visits to sites in Delden, Netherlands: Livingston, Scotland: source.
To help our global businesses manage risk, the Board has Castle Hayne, North Carolina and East Windsor, New Jersey.
approved a risk management policy and sets the tone for the Groups Board programme: management succession: business performance: culture on risk, appetite for risk and the levels of risk tolerance.
granular reviews of Group strategy, business segment strategies, acquisition criteria, top five major risks in each business: and Our risk culture the values, behaviours and actions are embodied in presentations from the business leadership teams and the operations key governance documents, such as the Groups risk management policy, HSE, legal and IT functions.
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Matters Reserved for the Four reforecasting exercises undertaken in the year in response Board.
Thus compliance with laws and regulations, sound business ethics tochanging trading conditions, with contingency action being taken and practices, and high standards of care in our safety and environmental tomanage the cost base.
performance are central to the way Elementis conducts its businesses.
Completion of programme in respect of agents signing up to terms covering anti-bribery and corruption compliance.
The Board is ultimately responsible for risk, internal control and longer Completion of a risk maturity survey and carrying out benchmarking term viability and has defined its risk appetite around an approach analysis of global risk themes and profiles.
towards how it will evaluate major opportunities and risks, whether these Insurance property survey programme.
relate to key business decisions, strategic investments or particular events Corporate HSE compliance audits including the use of third party or incidents.
As the nature of opportunity or risk can be distinctive, the subject matter experts, and the further roll out of corporate safety approach is to review these on a case by case basis but with reference standards.
See also Corporate responsibility report.
tostrategic and operating plans, Group policies and guidance from Increased focus and investment in cyber security measures, management and advisers.
Compliance training programme improved and extended.
Risk management overview Improved the resilience of our supply chain and, in particular, The risk management process is well established within Elementis broadening our supplier base to reduce dependence on key andembedded throughout the Group.
The Board sets the overall policy, rawmaterial sources.
culture and tone, and provides support and oversight.
The management team provides leadership and has responsibility for implementing Group Principal risks and uncertainties policies, identifying major risks and ensuring resources are allocated Following a comprehensive risk assessment process at the business foreffective risk management.
leadership, management team and Board level, 15 principal risks have been identified that are disclosed under nine headings below and on page At both Board and management team levels, a programme exists to 18.
Nine risks were also disclosed last year but there have been a number monitor and review major risks and controls on a routine basis.
Three risks from 2014 have been removed UK pension fund, specific time is set aside during the year to focus on specific risks and disruption to banking systems and increasing scrutiny of tax affairs and in controls, different parts of the business or aspects of the risk their place are cyber security incident, energy sector volatility and management process.
The Audit Committee supports the work of the Board and has specific Summary of principal risks responsibility for monitoring financial reporting, as well as the internal 1 Economy Competition 6 Weather operating incident andexternal audit programmes, one of the primary purposes of which 2 Growth opportunities 7 Cyber security isto provide assurance on financial, operational and compliance controls.
3 Supply chain disruption 8 Energy sector volatility See also Audit Committee report on page 32.
4 Litigation regulatory action 9 Succession planning 5 Regulation Technology Other corporate and business functions play an important role in effective risk management and these include: HSE, legal, HR, IT, finance, product Risks that have been omitted from this years table stewardship and supply chain.
This framework ensures that risk The UK pension scheme deficit has reduced significantly in recent years management is embedded into day to day operations and processes and the trustees have progressively moved to a more conservative in away that allows our approach to be responsive to changes in the investment strategy.
The 2014 triennial valuation and funding negotiations business environment.
In addition, our flat management structure allows were concluded successfully last year with a goal of eliminating the risk identification, assessment and management activities to be carried funding deficit, on a technical provision basis, by 2018.
See also out at site or business unit level, supported by escalation procedures Financereport.
toensure major risks are communicated to the management team andBoard as appropriate.
The Group continued to be cash generative in 2015 and therefore has relied less on its borrowing facilities.
There are a number of facilities in place with different institutions in separate regions and the principal facility has a syndicate of four banks.
Credit ratings and deposits are reviewed periodically by the Board along with other treasury matters.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 15 FINANCE REPORT CONTINUED Risk management report continued How we manage and mitigate major risks As reported elsewhere in this Annual Report, trading in 2015 was Our approach to taxation is to ensure that profits derived from economic impacted by the high US dollar, record low oil prices and to a lesser activities undertaken within individual jurisdictions are subject to tax extent slower growth in China.
The strong US dollar adversely affected inaccordance with the tax legislation that applies in each jurisdiction.
Chromium sales outside North America where it competes with Ourapproach is to deal with tax matters in an open and transparent producers in lower cost places such as Kazakhstan, Turkey, India and manner.
TheGroup is subject to tax audits and inspections in various China, sales to coatings customers outside the US by Specialty Products, jurisdictions that can cover income tax, sales tax and property taxes, and and the competitiveness of Specialty Products sales in Brazil.
recently completed reviews resulted in no material adjustments.
The major impacts from these risks are described in the business performance commentaries.
Although the above three risks do not appear in the 2015 principal risks table, they continue to be monitored and remain on the Groups The Group hedges certain non-US dollar currencies, mainly euro and comprehensive risk register which has records for over 90 risks.
Where pounds sterling, to mitigate the impact of currency movement on arisk has been almost completely mitigated or eliminated, it is archived earnings.
The Chromium business model continues to be to optimise from the live risk register and used for future reference.
manufacturing and product mix to supply markets where we can compete most effectively, in order to mitigate changing market dynamics.
In order Risks and trends to diversify the Specialty Products business portfolio, where its traditional The most significant challenges facing the Group in 2016 are risks that strength is in industrial coatings, a major focus of our innovation impact on the Groups ability to deliver its operating plans, achieve programme has been to target new product sales into the decorative strategic growth objectives and generate and preserve value for coatings market from our New Martinsville base which has been shareholders over the longer term.
In Taiwan, a new castor wax milling facility wascommissioned earlier in the year to shorten supply chains, enhance Principal challenges Principal risks margins and protect earnings.
An investment is also being made in our Songjiang facility in Shanghai to expand the range of defoamer products Deliver operating plans 1, 3, 6, 8 produced there.
This project will be completed during 2016 and will Achieve strategic growth objectives 2, 5, support our growth plans in Asia.
Most of these initiatives are about Generate and preserve value 4, 7, 9 newgrowth opportunities as being the best way to mitigate the effects ofa weaker global economy or poorer trading conditions.
See also Our objectives, strategies and business model on pages 4 to 5.
Other mitigation actions taken during the year include cost management The risk trend for severity of financial impact and likelihood of occurrence initiatives, such as a freeze on all non-essential items of expenditure and for the risks numbered below which correspond to the risk disclosures the implementation of a reduction-in-force exercise.
above and on page 18 is shown below.
The business has continued to work on improving its supply chain Severity of financial impact resilience by developing alternative sources of supply for key raw materials, such as bentonite clay in Specialty Products and soda ash Increased Decreased Stable inChromium.
Improvements were also made to logistics by moving toa new European warehouse.
The result of all this work is a greater 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9 4 3, 5 confidence in our supply chain resilience despite greater uncertainty globally, hence the risk trend has remained unchanged from the previousyear.
Likelihood of occurrence A key achievement in 2015 was that the businesses, working with our Increased Decreased Stable legal team, successfully implemented a programme in respect of agents 1, 6, 7, 8, 9 4 2, 3, 5 signing up to terms agreeing to comply with our anti-bribery and corruption policy.
The Group continues to provide training and briefings Why risk trends have changed tothe management team and employees in this important aspect of The main reason for the increases in severity trend is partially down to ourbusiness.
experience, as in the case of the impact of lower oil prices on demand forour drilling products, and partially due to changes to the way financial Regulation to restrict the use or transport of certain hazardous chemicals severity was assessed this year, following a review of processes and is an inherent risk in our business.
The global product stewardship team procedures.
For example, data from Aon supported by other industry closely monitors threats to the business, while ensuring that we operate publications helped to quantify potential loss from a cyber security infull compliance with the regulations in the jurisdictions in which we incident that was previously less well quantified.
In terms of the increased likelihood trend, again this generally reflects High standards in our safety and environmental performance remain akey experience higher US dollar impacting Chromium sales outside North priority and this area has again received a lot of attention in 2015, aspart America, more regulation or weather-related incidents, as well as an of our programme of continuous improvement.
Examples of work increase in awareness or anticipation, for example, of an IT-related undertaken include upgrading and extending fire protection systems in incident.
Under our insurance programme, the level of deductible is anumber of our Asia facilities, expanding our corporate process hazard partofthe risk being retained by the Company, so the higher frequency analysis programme, an industrial hygiene survey and implementing ofstorm events is another cause of the increased risk trend.
structural changes to the operations HSE organisation within Specialty Products.
16 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Cyber security was again very topical in 2015.
Elementis recognises the threat of cyber risk and how it can disrupt business operations.
Our Chief Information Officer worked with Aon to carry out a scenario analysis to quantify the potential financial impact.
The role and performance of the IT function is monitored by an IT Steering Committee chaired by the CEO and investments were made to strengthen network security and combat the risk of a cyber-related incident.
Succession planning is disclosed as a major risk this year in recognition that a change of CEO inevitably involves transition, review and change tohow the business is managed.
A new Chief Human Resources Officer, who joined in the second half of the year, has also accelerated work on reviewing management succession issues and planning for how these willbe addressed.
Business viability assessment The Boards going concern and business viability statements are set out in the Directors report on page 52.
The basis of the assessment includes a detailed review of strategic and operating plans, underpinned by one and three year financial forecasts including profit and loss and cash flows.
Consideration is therefore given to capital expenditures, investment plans, returns to shareholders and other financial commitments, as well as to the Companys debt bearing capacity, its financial resources, borrowings and the availability of finance.
A key part of any review of business plans and financial forecasts is a robust assessment of the inherent risks and opportunities.
The Boards programme of monitoring those major risks disclosed on page 18 for severity of financial, operational and reputational impact, likelihood and mitigation controls is therefore a critical component of the business viability assessment.
Business and segment growth scenarios, rate of return on investments, assumptions on global GDP growth rates, relevant currency rates and commodity prices in business plans and financial forecasts are all considered, with stress testing on financial models where appropriate.
Finally, a review of litigation and tax reports, legal and compliance risks throughout the year and at a formal year end risk review ensures that the viability statement is made with an appropriate degree of confidence.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 17 FINANCE REPORT CONTINUED Risk management report continued Table of principal risks and uncertainties Risk Impact Mitigation 1.
Global economic Sub-optimal global Specialty Products is well positioned against a deterioration conditions and economic conditions can ineconomic conditions due to its balanced geographic footprint, competitive pressure affect sales, capacity broad differentiated product offering and the broad application inthe marketplace utilisation and cash ofitstechnology across different sectors.
including from currency generation, as well as Chromium business model is flexible and can be adapted to movement.
increase competitive respond to variances in regional demand patterns.
pressure in the marketplace, Financial performance including monthly sales, profit and cash Risk trend over the year impacting profitability and flows is closely monitored with full year forecasts updated three operating margins.
times a year and variances explained and investigated.
The resultant non-delivery Contingency and cost reduction plans can be implemented in ofoperating plans can lead theevent of an economic downturn to reduce operating costs, to market expectations of including freezing salaries and non-essential capital Group earnings not being expenditureitems.
Growth opportunities Lack of growth opportunities Organic and acquisitive growth is a priority for the Board and including acquisitions can lead to sub-optimal akeyarea of focus for the management team.
and product innovation financial performance and Experienced Board and management team, robust due may not materialise.
diligenceprocesses and support from professional advisers.
Capacity expansion programmes are kept under review to ensurethe business can supply to high growth markets.
Regular Board reports on new product pipeline and progress onR&D projects.
3. Business interruption Disruption to supply chain Raw materials are sourced from a broad and diverse supplier base.
caused by supply chain e. g. third party, Strategic holding of key raw materials.
failure of key raw infrastructure, transport or Transport and carrier mitigation plans and insurance in place.
IT failure, all of which can impact capacity utilisation and add to operating costs.
Major regulatory Can lead to higher operating Active compliance and risk management programmes in place enforcement action, costs and reputational including policies, procedures and training.
litigation and or other damage.
Insurance programme and risk transfer strategy in place to mitigate claims arising from financial losses.
products and or historical Experienced General Counsel supported by in-house and external and ongoing operations.
Regular reviews of litigation and compliance reports by the Board and role of the Audit Committee, as well as the internal audit programme, help ensure these key risks are managed effectively.
Increased regulation New regulations restricting Active REACh programme in which the businesses participate technology the use or carriage of inindustry consortia, providing data and information to regulators obsolescence.
chemicals can lead to loss of and experts, to support safety reviews of our products in a broad applications and sales and or range of applications.
Strong Global Product Stewardship team in place to support the New technology, methods of businesses.
production or processes can R&D team aims to develop new products and technologies for give competitors a market usein an evolving market to meet the changing needs of our advantage.
sophisticated customers and in response to regulatory changes.
18 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Risk Impact Mitigation 6.
B usiness interruption Such incidents can disrupt Good housekeeping, preventative maintenance, process and other caused by a major event our operations, impact safety procedures help to mitigate the effects of a major incident.
ornatural catastrophe capacity utilisation and add Reliance on hectorite mine and flood risk mitigated by the e. g. operations HSE, IT or to operating costs, as well installation of drainage pumps at the mine in 2011. transport incident caused asdamage reputation.
Insurance programme and business continuity plans that are tested by process system failure periodically help to mitigate the effects of a major incident.
orhuman error, or by fire, HSE management programme in place that includes corporate storm and or flood.
compliance audits involving third party specialists, where appropriate, and insurance property surveys.
Systems security breach and Experienced Chief Information Officer supported by in-house loss of network connectivity andexternal consulting teams, with oversight from IT Steering and integrity can disrupt key Committee chaired by the CEO.
operations and add to Security controls that include: policies and procedures: staff operating costs.
awareness and training: risk management and compliance: systems Loss of business and and information management and protection: process personal data can disrupt management: and continuous assessments and monitoring.
key operations and add Use of regional back-up data centres in third party locations, tooperating costs.
cloud-based systems with secure entry-point and administration controls, encryption technology and multiple authentication systems, and website-blocking and next generation firewalls with intrusion detection capability.
Business continuity planning for IT incidents includes practicing high availability failover systems on critical business applications.
Inthe event of an emergency, response plans exist that aim to restore network connectivity, recover lost data and return operations to their normal pre-incident level.
E nergy sector volatility Geopolitics, government The Specialty Products oilfield business benefits from diversification resulting from geopolitical policy or interstate conflicts as it supplies products to multiple segments that operate under dynamics.
can impact oil prices and different economic drivers: cold climate, deep water, high drilling activity in the oil and temperature high pressure drilling and shale oil and gas drilling.
gas sector, which can reduce The oilfield business is the only Group segment that is more directly our sales in this business exposed to oil price volatility and its proprietary technology, segment and or lead to customer relationships and technical support service are key increased operating costs.
differentiation factors that help to maintain our customer base.
Failure to attract or retain key Experienced Chief HR Officer supported by in-house and external talent can disrupt growth consulting teams.
plans and or critical business Management and critical business leader succession planning functions.
isakey area of focus for the Board and management team and iskept under review.
Key: Risk trends Severity Likelihood Risk increased Risk decreased Risk stable These principal risks and uncertainties should be read in conjunction with the note on contingent liabilities on page 89.
Brian Taylorson Finance Director 1 March 2016 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 19
