32 Risks and Uncertainties During the year the process of risk identification and evaluation including assurance effectiveness has been enhanced and is explained further in the Audit Committee Report.
The Board formally reviews the principal risks identified through this process and ensures that these are appropriately managed by the executive management team.
The Board retains ultimate The internal audit function provides responsibility for the Groups risk assurance to the Audit Committee management framework, including on the effectiveness of the internal the on-going monitoring and review control procedures through of its effectiveness, however it has completion of the annual internal audit delegated responsibility for annually plan, which takes into account current reviewing the overall effectiveness of business risks.
the risk management programme to For more information the Audit Committee, who formally see pages 55 to 57 report back to the Board.
BOARD OVERSIGHT Board meetings Audit Committee Internal audit compliance Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Group risk appetite and policies MONITORING & REVIEW Risk register Annual review: Risk appetite Determination of Risk changes principal risks response Group risk policy Assurance mapping Integration with Incidents and action Operation of Internal audit strategy and points management and planning control sysytems COMPANY CULTURE Ownership Responsibility Incentivisation of Appraisals strategic goals Governance Report Audit Committee Report Remuneration Policy see page 46 see page 51 see page 62 Enterprise Inns AR2015 Front.
indd 32 07 12 2015 17:25:09 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 33 for the year ended 30 September 2015 The table below sets out the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and how Key: we mitigate them.
This is not intended to be an exhaustive analysis of all the risks the Increase Group may face.
Decrease The new strategic direction being taken by the Group as explained in the Our Strategy section has been considered when reviewing risks and consequently there are some Unchanged changes to the risks the Group faces.
These are explained in more detail below.
Considered as part of viability assessment Description and potential impact Mitigation processes Strategy and business model Due to the introduction of MRO during the current year Regulation of the tied pub model the risk of regulation to the business has increased.
The Small Business, Enterprise and Employment SBEE Bill The Group is committed to the tied pub model and works received Royal Assent on 26 March 2015 and has therefore closely with a number of stakeholders to support the pub sector, become primary legislation.
Further work is now taking place evolve the tied pub model and ensure it operates an appropriate to finalise the detail of the new regulatory regime, however the and legally binding Code of Practice to promote a mutually key proposals were to establish a Statutory Code of Practice, beneficial relationship with its publicans.
to be overseen by an independent Adjudicator, and to provide The Group actively engages with the Government, trade bodies a tenants right, under certain circumstances, to change the and other stakeholders and has contributed to and continues to freely-negotiated commercial terms of their agreement to a participate in the Government consultation process.
new Market Rent Only MRO contract.
Whilst we remain of the view that the flexible industry-owned The Government has since launched the first tranche of two framework of self-regulation is working and is the best solution of its Consultation on the wording of the statutory Pubs Code, for all interested parties, we recognise the intent of a statutory which is expected to come into effect by 26 May 2016. regime and are working with the relevant bodies as part of the process to develop the Pubs Code and associated guidance and Although this removes some of the uncertainty in the sector, shall respond formally to both tranches of the Consultation.
until the parliamentary process is complete and the final detail is known, the potential costs of implementation and We already operate effective policies and procedures in order to the operation of the regime could have an impact upon our satisfy the existing industry code of practice framework and we profitability, our operational strategy and our relationships with have recently recruited additional compliance resource to ensure our publicans.
that we satisfy any additional requirements of the statutory Pubs Code.
In addition, there is a risk that other changes to the regulations relating to the sale of alcohol could have an impact on the In order to mitigate any potential impact to total income, the Groups business and the ability of our publicans to operate Group is developing the necessary operational flexibility and their pubs.
capabilities to enable it to apply alternative operating models to the pubs in the estate that could potentially be affected by MRO.
These risks include changes to licensing legislation, increases to alcohol duties imposed by the Government and the impact of We also work closely with Local Authorities as necessary social responsibility issues on the industry in general.
to ensure licensing requirements are dealt with whenever appropriate.
The Group is a member of a number of trade bodies and associations, is a contributor to the Drinkaware Trust, and works closely with these organisations to promote responsible drinking practices.
Further details can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of our website at www.
The Board believes there is no change to this risk.
Litigation The Group operates in a heavily regulated industry and may be The Group employs an in-house solicitor and other specialists to involved in legal or statutory proceedings in relation to our pubs ensure we comply with legislation and to manage any litigation or publicans.
The impact of such litigation may be immaterial in with our publicans.
value but may result in harm to the Groups reputation.
The Group will work with Local Authorities as necessary whenever any statutory issues are raised in relation to its pub estate.
Where appropriate, the Group takes legal proceedings against publicans to ensure compliance with their agreements.
com Stock code: ETI Enterprise Inns AR2015 Front.
indd 33 07 12 2015 17:25:09 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 34 Risks and Uncertainties Description and potential impact Mitigation processes Strategy and business model Although there is a small change to this risk due to an increase in the number of managed houses, the Board believes that this does Health and safety not significantly affect the Group.
A health and safety incident could result in serious injury to the The Group has developed an effective health and safety Groups employees, publicans or customers.
management system to ensure compliance with all legal duties placed on the organisation by health and safety law.
All systems are subject to regular review with training provided as appropriate.
These measures have been expanded to ensure effective control of the managed house operations as well as continued appropriate focus on the issues facing the leased and tenanted estate.
The Group employs a Health and Safety Manager and a Fire Safety Manager to maintain the health and safety management system along with the identification and remediation of specific risks and ensuring employees are aware of regulatory requirements.
The Group operates a strategic and operational health and safety regime and operates within a Primary Authority Scheme with Westminster City Council and also with the West Midlands Fire Service.
This is a new risk to the business this year following the Implementation of new strategy announcement of the new strategy.
There is a risk that there is not enough expertise, resource The Group has started developing the necessary infrastructure or time to build the necessary support infrastructure to to support the new strategy, including the recruitment of high successfully execute the new strategy in the desired quality, experienced individuals into areas of the business such timeframe.
In addition, there is a risk that assets are as retail operations, concept development, change programme not allocated to the most optimum area, impacting the management and systems and financial reporting.
The Group effectiveness of the strategy.
also uses outsourced resources where required.
The Group strategy includes a diverse portfolio of operating approaches, including ensuring that we utilise external specialist operating experience, for example in the partnership Expert model, where their retail flair and capability in pubs with retail complexity and exceptional profit potential will allow us to optimise the value of such sites.
indd 34 07 12 2015 17:25:10 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 35 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Description and potential impact Mitigation processes Strategy and business model The Board believes there is no change to this risk.
General economic conditions The Groups business operations are sensitive to economic The Group regularly monitors its key income streams and conditions and the general economic outlook remains publicans performance to ensure the Group is competitively uncertain.
In addition, changes in interest rates and other placed in the market, including regularly reviewing financial economic factors could lead to an increase in the Groups forecasts to assess the impact of economic conditions on its weighted average cost of capital WACC, or could impact budget, strategic plans and its publicans.
Careful consideration profitability either of which could lead to an impairment in the is given to all publicans requests for additional operational and value of goodwill carried on the Balance Sheet.
financial support as well as assessing appropriate investment in the development of our pubs to ensure that we remain competitively placed in the market.
The Group continues to foster mutually beneficial relationships with key suppliers to ensure the impact of any price increases is minimised wherever possible.
The Group regularly reviews its WACC in line with the capital structure, and compares to its competitors.
It annually reviews the carrying value of goodwill and would write down the value if it deemed an impairment was necessary.
Any goodwill that is allocated to pubs that are disposed, is written off during the year.
Pub operations The Board believes there is no change to this risk.
People The Group is reliant on the ability to attract, train and retain The Group is committed to providing appropriate employee the best employees, publicans for its leased and tenanted training, retention and reward policies and has attained the pubs as well as managers and team members for its managed prestigious accolade of Champion status for Investors in pubs.
Failure to do this could impact on the Groups strategic People.
An e-learning training programme is also in place to objectives.
support our employees on-going development.
As outlined in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on page 25, we conduct an annual staff engagement survey which is used to identify issues and opportunities to improve the working environment.
The Groups publican recruitment and training programme and its variety of tenancy and lease agreements are designed to attract the best quality people.
We offer an industry leading range of flexible agreements, funding options, tailored deals for appropriate applicants and award winning training courses.
The Group has also established a robust programme for the recruitment, induction and training for all of the managers and team members of each of its managed pub operations.
indd 35 07 12 2015 17:25:10 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 36 Risks and Uncertainties Description and potential impact Mitigation processes Pub operations The Board believes there is no change to this risk.
Supply chain management The Group places reliance on key suppliers and distributors to The Group works closely with its key suppliers and distribution ensure that there is a continuous supply of drinks and other partners to ensure good working relationships, as well as products to its publicans.
The Group is exposed to interruption taking reasonable steps to try to ensure that key suppliers and or failure of these key suppliers and distributors which could distributors have appropriate disaster recovery plans in place to result in such products not being delivered to publicans on maintain continuity of supply.
The Group also has its own contingency plans to minimise the disruption of any external interruption to supply.
Property management The Board believes there is no change to this risk.
Property valuations Valuations of the Groups property portfolio have been The Group ensures that every pub in its portfolio is valued affected by general economic conditions and resulting annually at market value by qualified external and internal valuers downwards pressure on maintainable income streams.
These in accordance with RICS Valuation Standards 8th Edition.
92% circumstances could continue and therefore reduce the of the estate is now valued by independent, external valuers.
valuation of the portfolio over time.
There is a risk that future These valuations comply with the requirements of International changes in the UK property market and general economic Financial Reporting Standards.
conditions could impact the value of our portfolio and the ability We conduct a full estates review on an annual basis which to dispose of underperforming pubs and the realisations from allows us to set a future strategy for each pub in the estate.
Property valuations also have an implication review also guides our investment in capital expenditure, allows for the overall value of the Group and impact on financial us to consider possible alternative uses or to dispose of those covenants.
pubs which no longer fit our strategy.
We invested 69 million on developing and improving our pubs during the year.
indd 36 07 12 2015 17:25:10 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 37 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Description and potential impact Mitigation processes Capital structure The Board believes there is no change to this risk due to the refinancing in the year that has reduced the corporate Liquidity risk bonds due in 2018.
The Group has a flexible financing structure comprising bonds The Board regularly reviews detailed financial forecasts issued from the Unique securitisation securitised bonds, to ensure there is sufficient cash available to meet the corporate bonds issued by the Company and bank borrowings.
These reviews include the ability to meet restricted payment conditions in the securitised bonds in The bank borrowing facility of 138 million 75 million order that cash can be released by the payment of dividends drawn at 30 September 2015 is fully committed through to through the securitisation structure to the Company.
There are a number of options available to the Group to manage The next scheduled bond repayments are the 350.5 million its financing commitments including the disposal of pubs, which mature in December 2018. reducing capital expenditure on the estate as well as raising new The primary liquidity risks are the requirement to meet all capital through a bank facility or issuing new corporate bonds.
on-going finance costs, repay the principal amounts of the Throughout the year the Group tests all of the financial securitised borrowings as they amortise and the corporate covenants and forecasts are prepared during the budgeting bonds as they fall due, ensuring there are sufficient funding process.
The Board regularly reviews detailed financial forecasts facilities in place to enable the business to meet all cash of the Group to ensure there is sufficient headroom on all flow requirements as they fall due and meeting the financial covenants.
covenants associated with the financing structure.
On 7 October 2014 the Group completed a refinancing which effectively moved 249.5 million of the 600 million debt that was due to be repaid in 2018 to a later maturity of 2023.
At the same time the bank facility was extended to 2018.
Other than the on-going amortisation of the securitised bonds, these are the next scheduled repayments facing the Group.
Information technology The Board believes there is no change to this risk.
Systems failure The Groups daily operations are reliant on its information A business continuity plan is in place to ensure the business technology systems for accounting, reporting and could continue to function in the event of a major systems communication.
There is a risk that serious disruption could failure.
This plan is regularly tested.
result if these systems fail for an extended period of time.
There are comprehensive controls in place to protect information technology systems, including anti-viral software and the back up and off-site storage of data.
Cyber risk Increasing levels of cyber-crime represent a threat to every The threats facing IT are regularly monitored as part of the business with the potential to cause a loss of system on-going review by the IT Steering Committee, which regularly availability, which could have a consequential financial loss.
reports to the Executive Management Group.
IT disaster recovery and business continuity plans exist and are tested regularly to ensure the business could continue to function in the event of a major systems failure.
There are comprehensive controls in place to protect IT systems, including anti-viral software and the back up and off-site storage of data.
A review of security was completed by an external consultant during the year, which rated our security as substantially better than the majority of similar organisations.
indd 37 07 12 2015 17:25:10 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 38 Risks and Uncertainties Viability statement Going concern statement In accordance with the revised and future risks, controls and The directors have considered the UK Corporate Governance Code, assurances available have been fully Groups financial resources including the Directors have assessed the analysed and documented, resulting a review of the medium-term financial prospects of the Group over a period in a clear picture of the risk profile plan, which includes a review of the significantly longer than 12 months across the whole of the business.
This Groups cash flow forecasts for the from the approval of the financial has been reviewed and the principal period of at least 12 months from the statements.
risks agreed by the Board are detailed date of approval of these financial on pages 32 to 37. statements.
The Board has concluded that the most relevant time period for this Those risks that could affect the The directors have also considered review should be the three year future viability of the Group over the the impact of the Small Business, period of the normal business next five years were identified, as Enterprise and Employment Act forecasting cycle, however given that highlighted on pages 32 to 37 in Risks which includes the introduction of the Group is in the early stages of a and Uncertainties, and the resilience a Statutory Code of Practice for the strategic plan that will evolve over a of the Group to the occurrence of sector and a Market Rent Only option five year period and the occurrence these risks in severe yet plausible for certain leased pubs including of specific financing events over that scenarios has been evaluated.
the current anticipated timetable for same period, the assessment this implementation and the alternative This evaluation has included year has been carried out over the five actions available to the Group in consideration of the likelihood and year period to 2020. response to the legislation.
impact of refinancing the 350.5 The Board took part in a strategic million corporate bonds, that are Based on the outcome of the above business review during the current due for repayment in 2018, and the consideration the directors have a year following which a strategy directors draw attention to the key reasonable expectation that the Group of asset optimisation has been assumption that there is a reasonable has adequate resources to continue announced.
This review considered expectation, based on the refinancing in operational existence for the the current position, strategy and that occurred during the year, that the period under review.
For this reason market of the Group along with the Group will be able to refinance these the directors continue to adopt the risks and opportunities.
going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
In addition, as in prior years, the For the reasons stated above, the Group has continued to assess directors confirm that they have a the key risks and mitigating factors reasonable expectation that the Group that could impact the Group.
This will be able to continue in operation, assessment has been further and meet its liabilities as they fall due, enhanced to ensure that the current over the period of the assessment.
Strategic Report approval The Strategic Report, on pages 02 to 38, incorporates the Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, Our Market, Our Business, Our Strategy, the Chief Executives Review, Key Performance Indicators, the Financial Review, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report, the Risks and Uncertainties and the viability and going concern statements.
By order of the Board L T ogher Company Secretary 16 November 2015 Enterprise Inns AR2015 Front.
indd 38 07 12 2015 17:25:11 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 39 Pull up a chair and enjoy our vibrant pubs at the heart of their communities.
indd 39 07 12 2015 17:25:12 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
