14 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Principal Risks The principal risks and uncertainties the group faces vary across the different businesses and are identified in the groups risk register.
Management of significant risk is regularly on the agenda of the board, the risk and audit committees and other senior management meetings.
The groups risk register identifies the principal risks facing the business.
The register is put together following a group-wide assessment of risks reported in its business risk registers.
Each business risk register considers the likelihood of a risk occurring and both the monetary and reputational impact of the risk crystallising.
The risk assessment process also considers risk velocity and the groups appetite for the risk.
The risk committee has completed a robust and detailed assessment of both the groups risk management processes and the group risk register and has considered the impact of significant risks to the group in the context of providing the companys viability statement.
Further details of the groups risk management processes, the governance structure for risk and the risk committee can be found in the Corporate Governance Report.
The group uses a number of tools to analyse its risks and facilitate discussions at the board, executive committee and risk committee.
The risk matrix below shows the relative impact and likelihood of the groups principal risks.
The group also considers the extent to which each risk arises from external or internal factors, and whether each risk is established and understood or is an emerging risk and therefore less understood.
The risk radar below maps the groups principal risks using this criteria, and uses data point size to illustrate risk direction with increasing risk indicated by the larger data points.
RISK MATRIX RISK RADAR Established risks External Emerging risks 1 1 7 2 5 2 4 3 4 9 9 3 12 Established known Emerging new 8 6 10 12 5 6 8 7 11 11 10 Established operations Internal Emerging operations Insignicant Very significant Impact Euromoney registers its risks based on a residual risk rating after taking account of mitigating controls.
Downturn in economy or market sector 2.
Compliance with laws and regulations 4.
Data integrity, availability and cyber security 5.
Hazard risk affecting a significant office 6.
Securing and retaining key staff 8.
Unforeseen tax liabilities 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8 Likelihood Unlikely Almost certain Strategic report PrInCIPaL rIsks Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 The groups principal risks and uncertainties are summarised below.
The arrows provide a pictorial indication of the change in level of perceived risk compared to last year.
riSk poteNtial impact mitigatioN chaNge Economic or political uncertainty in global financial The group has a diverse product mix and DowNturN iN markets increases the risk of a downturn or operates in many geographical locations.
ecoNomy or market potential collapse in one or more areas of the This reduces dependency on any one sector Sector business.
If this occurs income is likely to be or region.
Management has the ability to The group generates significant adversely affected and for events businesses some cut costs quickly if required or to switch the income from certain key abandonment costs may also be incurred.
groups focus to new or unaffected markets geographical regions and market for instance, through development of new sectors.
vertical markets or transferring events to better performing regions.
Significant disruptions to or reductions in Where possible, contingency plans are in travel riSk international travel for any reason could lead to place to minimise the disruption from travel The conference, seminar and events and courses being postponed or cancelled restrictions.
Events can be postponed or training businesses account for and could have a significant impact on the groups moved to another location, or increasingly approximately a third of the performance.
can be attended remotely using online groups revenues and profits.
The success of these events Past incidents such as transport strikes, extreme and courses relies heavily on weather including hurricanes, terrorist attacks, fears Cancellation and abandonment insurance the confidence in and ability of over SARS and swine flu, and natural disasters such is in place for the groups largest events, delegates and speakers to travel as the disruption to airline schedules from volcanic including Ebola cover for Mining Indaba, the internationally.
ash in Europe, have all had a negative impact on groups largest conference taking place in the groups results, although none materially.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8 16 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Principal Risks continued riSk poteNtial impact mitigatioN chaNge A breach of legislation or regulations could Compliance with laws and regulations is compliaNce have a significant impact on the group in terms taken seriously throughout the group.
A with lawS aND of additional costs, management time and Code of Conduct and supporting policies regulatioNS reputational damage.
sets out appropriate standards of business Group businesses are subject behaviour and highlights the key legal and to legislation and regulation In recent years, responsibilities for managing regulatory issues affecting group businesses.
in the jurisdictions in which data protection have increased significantly.
The Divisional and local management are they operate.
The key laws emergence of new online technology is leading to responsible for compliance with applicable and regulations that may have further legislation and responsibilities for managing local laws and regulations, overseen by the an impact on the group cover data privacy.
executive committee and the board and areas such as libel, bribery and supported by internal audit.
corruption, competition, data Proposed new regulation by the European Union to protection, privacy including improve market transparency under which prices, The companys speak-up policy sets out the e-privacy, health and safety and benchmarks and indices are provided, could affect a duty for all employees to report improper employment law.
number of businesses in the group.
activity or suspicions of improper activity.
If Failure to comply with laws and regulations in any employees feel they cannot raise a matter More recently, new financial part of the world could result in significant financial directly, it can be reported anonymously regulations being introduced penalties and reputational damage.
using an independent whistle-blowing as a result of the financial crisis hotline.
of 2008 have implications for the groups price reporting, A compliance framework for price reporting, benchmark and indices businesses benchmark and indices businesses has see published content risk.
been implemented, formalising standards In September 2015 the group of conduct, procedural guidance and staff acquired 9.9% interest in Zanbato training.
Ethics audits have been conducted Inc, an international private to support the framework.
capital placements platform and The group has strict policies and controls workflow tools provider.
A new in place for the management of data business has been created to protection and privacy.
These are supported bring together the technology of by new computer-based training CBT rolled Zanbato and the market reach out worldwide in 2015.
The group has of Institutional Investors Investor website technology to reinforce online legal Intelligence Network IIN to serve and regulatory compliance.
the institutional segment of the private placements market.
This The group has compliance staff in place has increased legal and regulatory where relevant and appointed a senior compliance risk for the group.
compliance manager in its IIN Zanbato business during the year.
A new online compliance handbook is being provided to all managers in all offices this year, to support governance and further mitigate compliance risk.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8 Strategic report PrInCIPaL rIsks Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17 riSk poteNtial impact mitigatioN chaNge Any challenge to the integrity or availability of The group has comprehensive information Data iNtegrity, information that the group relies upon could result security standards and policies in place availability aND in operational and regulatory challenges, costs to which are reviewed on a regular basis.
cyber Security the group, reputational damage and the permanent Access to key systems and data is restricted, The group uses large quantities loss of revenue.
This risk has increased as the threat monitored, and logged with auditable data of data including customer, of cyber-attack has become more significant.
Restrictions are in place to prevent employee and commercial successful cyber-attack could cause considerable unauthorised data downloads.
The group data in the ordinary course of disruption to business operations.
is subject to regular internal information its business.
The group also security audits, supplemented by expert publishes large quantities of data The wider use of social media has also increased external resource.
The group continues see published content risk.
information risk as negative comments made about to invest in appropriate cyber defences the groups products can now spread more easily The integrity, availability and including implementation of intrusion and more quickly.
security of this data are key to the detection systems to mitigate the risk of success of the group.
Although technological innovations in mobile Information risk has increased as working, the introduction of cloud-based The groups information security group a result of the growing number technologies and the growing use of social media meets regularly to consider and address of  present opportunities for the group, they also cyber risks.
organisations globally, the introduce new information security risks that need groups greater dependency on to be managed carefully.
Comprehensive backup plans for IT technology and the increasing infrastructure and business data are in place threats from cyber-crime.
to protect the businesses from unnecessary disruption.
Information providers are facing increasingly sophisticated cyber-attacks.
The controls to prevent an information security breach require constant review and assessment across the company.
The company has an active information security programme in place to mitigate cyber risk effectively.
The groups professional indemnity insurance provides cover for cyber risks including cyber-attack and data breach incidents.
An incident affecting one or more of the key Business continuity plans are in place for hazarD riSk offices could disrupt the ordinary operations of the all businesses.
These plans are refreshed aFFectiNg a businesses at these locations: a region-wide disaster annually and a programme is in place for SigNiFicaNt oFFice affecting all offices could have worse implications testing them.
If required, employees can The groups main offices are in with serious management and communication work remotely.
London, New York, Montreal, challenges for the group and a potential adverse Hong Kong and Sofia.
A The group has robust, high-availability IT effect on results.
significant incident affecting systems with key locations including the these cities could lead to The risk of office space becoming unusable for a UK, US, Canada and Asia benefiting from disruption to group operations.
prolonged period and a lack of suitable alternative offsite data backups, failover technology accommodation in the affected area could also and third-party 24-hour support contracts cause significant disruption to the business and for key applications.
interfere with delivery of products and services.
The groups business continuity planning Incidents affecting key clients or staff in these helped its New York office to recover regions could also give rise to the risk of not quickly and effectively from the significant achieving forecast results.
disruption caused by Hurricane Sandy in 2012, and more recently maintain operations in its Bangkok office during the Thai political crisis last year.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8 18 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Principal Risks continued riSk poteNtial impact mitigatioN chaNge publiSheD coNteNt A successful libel claim could damage the groups The group runs mandatory annual libel riSk reputation.
The rise in use of social media, and in courses for all journalists and editors.
The group generates a significant particular tweeting and blogging, has increased this Controls are in place, including legal review, amount of its revenue from risk.
Damage to the reputation of the group arising to approve content that may carry a libel publishing information and data from libel could lead to a loss of revenue, including risk.
Editorial controls are also in place for online or in its magazines and income from advertising.
In addition, there could be social media and this activity is monitored journals.
As a result, there is an costs incurred in defending a claim.
inherent risk of error which, in The failure to manage content redistribution rights The groups policy is to own its content some instances, may give rise and royalty agreements could lead to overpayment and manage redistribution rights tightly.
The rapid of royalties, loss of intellectual property and Royalty and redistribution agreements development of social media has additional liabilities for redistribution of content.
are in place to mitigate risks arising from increased this risk.
Tight controls have been The integrity of the groups published data is critical implemented for the verification, cleaning The transition to online publishing to the success of the groups database, research and and processing of data used in its database, means content is being data services.
The group also publishes extensive research and data services.
distributed far quicker and more pricing information and indices for the global widely than ever before.
This has metals industries and financial markets.
Errors in Processes and methodologies for assessing introduced new challenges for published data, price assessments or indices, or a metals and other commodity prices and securing and delivering content perceived reduction in the quality of the groups calculating indices are clearly defined and and effective management of research could affect the reputation of the group documented.
All employees involved with content rights and royalties.
leading to fewer subscribers and lower revenues.
publishing pricing information or indices receive relevant training.
Robust contractual The business also publishes Any challenge to the integrity of polls and awards disclaimers are in place for all businesses databases and data services could damage the reputation of the product and by that publish pricing data, benchmarks and with a particular focus on highassociation the rest of the group, resulting in legal indices.
There is costs and a permanent loss of revenue.
the potential for errors in data Polls and awards are regularly audited and a collection, data processing and firewall is in place between the commercial or poor quality research.
The arm of the business and the editors.
group publishes industry pricing Key staff are aware of the significant benchmarks for the metals risks associated with publishing content markets and more than 1,000 and strong internal controls are in place equity and bond indices.
The for reporting to senior management if a group also runs more than 100 potential issue arises.
These are documented reader polls and awards each in a publishing risk handbook provided year.
The group also has libel insurance and professional indemnity cover.
SecuriNg aND The inability to recruit and retain talented people Long-term incentive plans are in place retaiNiNg key StaFF could affect the groups ability to maintain its for key staff to encourage retention.
The group is reliant on key performance and deliver growth.
The directors remain committed to the management and staff across all recruitment and retention of high-quality When key staff leave or retire, there is a risk that of its businesses.
Many products management and talent, and provide a knowledge or competitive advantage is lost.
are dependent on specialist and programme of career opportunity and or technical expertise.
progression for employees including extensive training and international transfer opportunities.
Succession planning is in place for senior management.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8 Strategic report PrInCIPaL rIsks Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19 riSk poteNtial impact mitigatioN chaNge A failure of the back-office technology may affect The group continues to invest significantly Failure oF key the performance, data integrity or availability of the in its central back-office, publishing and techNology groups products and services.
Any extensive failure research and data technologies.
The The company has invested is likely to affect a large number of businesses and platforms are planned, managed and run significantly in back-office and customers, and lead directly to a loss of revenues.
by dedicated, skilled teams with progress publishing technologies to support and performance closely monitored by the the transition of the business from Online customers are accessing the groups digital executive committee and the board.
The content in an increasing number of ways, including proprietary data businesses rely on using websites, apps and e-books.
The group relies The group has digital rights management specialised information systems on effective digital rights management technology technology to ensure its content is to deliver high-value benchmark, to provide flexible and secure access to its content.
adequately secured and changing customer index and price data to its clients.
An inability to provide flexible access rights to requirements for accessing the groups The companys event businesses the groups content could lead to products being products and services are met.
are dependent on delegate less competitive or allow unauthorised access to registration technologies.
Operational and financial due diligence is content, reducing subscription revenues as a result.
undertaken for all key suppliers as part of a The companys back-office The company has many online businesses that rely formal risk assessment process.
Contingency technology provides customer on central content management technology to planning is carried out to mitigate risk from and product management, digital meet its publishing deadlines and commitments.
rights management, e-commerce Any interruption to publishing and updating The group has made a substantial and performance and activity content risks serious reputational damage to investment in e-commerce technology reporting.
The platform supports products and declining revenue.
and hosting infrastructure to ensure the a large share of the groups Approximately a third of the groups revenues derive back-office platform continues to perform online requirements including from its research and data products.
key activities for publishing, failures affecting the quality and delivery of these events and data businesses.
products could put this revenue at risk.
Central content management technologies are used to publish A failure of the companys event systems could most of the companys online cause significant disruption to the running of any of content and data.
its events leading to loss of revenue.
The companys research and The groups reliance on key suppliers, particularly IT data businesses rely on bespoke suppliers, has increased.
An operational or financial databases and algorithms to failure of a key supplier could affect the groups provide its clients with investment ability to deliver products, services or events which research, commodity pricing, could have a direct impact on management time macroeconomic analysis, and financial results.
A failure of any one of its key technologies or The company runs at least 400 a poor strategic investment in an inappropriate events annually, many taking place technology could have a significant impact on the in emerging market countries.
The successful running of the events depends on high-quality registration and networking technology.
The groups technology is critical to the successful functioning of all its businesses and hence carries a significant amount of risk.
The group considers that this risk has increased because the groups reliance on key technologies has increased.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8 20 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Principal Risks continued riSk poteNtial impact mitigatioN chaNge There is a risk that an acquisition opportunity Senior management perform detailed acquiSitioN aND could be missed.
The group could also suffer in-house due diligence on all prospective DiSpoSal riSk an impairment loss if an acquired business does acquisitions and call on expert external As well as launching and building not generate the expected returns or fails to advisors where necessary.
Acquisition new businesses, the group grow.
Additionally, there is a risk that a newly agreements are usually structured to retain continues to make strategic acquired business is not integrated into the key employees in the acquired company and acquisitions where opportunities group successfully or that the expected risks of there is close monitoring of performance at exist.
The management team a newly acquired entity are misunderstood.
reviews a number of potential consequence a significant amount of management acquisitions each year with only The board regularly reviews the groups time could be diverted from other operational a small proportion of these going existing portfolio of businesses to identify matters.
through to the due diligence under-performing businesses or businesses stage and possible subsequent The group is also subject to disposal risk, possibly that no longer fit with the groups strategy purchase.
The group also disposes failing to achieve optimal value from disposed and puts in place divestment plans of businesses that no longer fit businesses, failing to identify the time at which accordingly.
businesses should be sold or underestimating the impact on the remaining group from such a The group has impaired a number disposal.
of its investments during the year, due to challenging market conditions, and therefore considers this acquisition and disposal risk as increasing.
The groups online strategy addresses a number of The group is embracing these challenges Failure oF proDuct challenges arising from the groups transition from and overall sees the Internet and other Strategy print media to an online business and changing technological advances as an opportunity, The growth of tablets and customer behaviour.
other mobile devices and the proliferation of social media are Competition has increased, with free content Significant investment in the groups online changing how customers access becoming more available on the Internet and strategy has already been made and will and use the groups products and new competitors benefiting from lower barriers continue for as long as necessary.
A failure to manage pricing effectively or content management technology is being successfully differentiate the groups products and implemented across the group to enable The group has established a services could negatively affect business results.
more effective publishing to web, print and strategy to meet the many the rapidly increasing number of mobile challenges of migrating the The customer environment is changing fast with an platforms coming onto the market.
Many of publishing businesses from increasing number spending more time using the the groups businesses already produce soft traditional print media to online Internet.
Print circulation is declining and a failure to copies of publications to supplement the and to ensure the non-publishing convert customers from print risks a permanent loss hard copies as well as provide information businesses take advantage of new of customers.
technology when advantageous Further changes in technology including the to do so.
The groups acquisition strategy has widespread use of tablets and other mobile devices increased the number of its online This strategy has been pursued and social media are changing customer behaviour information businesses.
However, while for a number of years.
online revenues are important, the groups The group considers that this product mix reduces dependency on online A failure in the groups online strategy to meet risk has increased because of the income.
For example, the group generates a these challenges could result in a permanent loss of increased reliance on technology third of its profits from its event businesses revenue.
and face-to-face meetings remain an important part of customers marketing activities.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8 Strategic report PrInCIPaL rIsks Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21 riSk poteNtial impact mitigatioN chaNge treaSury operatioNS If the treasury policy does not adequately mitigate The tax and treasury committee is The group treasury function is the groups financial risks or is not correctly responsible for reviewing and approving responsible for executing treasury executed, it could result in unforeseen derivative group treasury policies which are executed policy which seeks to manage losses or higher than expected finance costs.
the groups funding, liquidity and The treasury function undertakes high-value Segregation of duties and authorisation treasury derivatives risks.
These transactions hence there is an inherent risk of limits are in place for all payments made.
include currency exchange rate payment fraud or error having an adverse impact on The treasury function is also subject to fluctuations, interest rate risks, group results.
counterparty risk and liquidity and debt levels.
These risks are described in more detail in note 18 to the group financial statements.
uNForeSeeN tax The directors endeavour to manage the tax affairs External tax experts and in-house tax liabilitieS of the group in an efficient manner: however, specialists, reporting to the tax and treasury The group operates within many due to an ever-more complex international committee, work together to review all tax tax jurisdictions and earnings tax environment there will always be a level of arrangements within the group and keep are therefore subject to taxation uncertainty when provisioning for tax liabilities.
abreast of changes in global tax legislation.
at differing rates across these There is also a risk of tax laws being amended by jurisdictions.
authorities in the different jurisdictions in which the group operates which could have an adverse effect on the financial results.
viability StatemeNt In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Corporate Governance Code, the directors have assessed the viability of the group and have selected a period of three years for the assessment.
The group operates in volatile sectors and geographical markets but has more than half of its revenues based on annual subscriptions with strong renewal rates, has no outstanding debt and few long-term financial obligations.
For these reasons the group uses a three-year strategic planning cycle and the directors have determined that three years is also an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement.
The assessment conducted considered the groups operating profit, revenue, EBITDA, cash flows, dividend cover and other key financial ratios over the three-year period.
These metrics were subject to severe downside stress and sensitivity analysis over the assessment period, taking account of the groups current position, the groups experience of managing adverse conditions in the past and the impact of a number of severe yet plausible scenarios, based on the principal risks set out in the Strategic Report.
The stress testing considered the principal risks assessed to have the highest probability of occurrence or the severest impact, crystallising both individually and in combination.
The assessment modelled a significant downturn in the world economy affecting all three years of the assessment period and a number of successive product and business failures, including the failure of a new acquisition.
In making the assessment, the directors have considered the groups robust capital position, the cash-generative nature of the business, the ability of the company to cut costs quickly, the access to available credit, the absence of pension and M&A liabilities and the groups ability to restrict dividends.
Based on the results of this analysis, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years.
