com PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Effective risk management is critical for fulfilling EVRAZ strategic priorities.
Risk Management System For more information, see the Risk Management and Internal Control section of the Corporate Governance Report, pages 115-117 Overall responsibility for Group risk management and internal control Approves strategic objectives and risk appetite 1 Identifies, assesses and monitors Group-wide risks and mitigation actions 2 2 Supports the board in monitoring risk exposure against risk appetite oversight, identification, 1 3 assessment and management Reviews the effectiveness of risk of risks at corporate level management and internal control systems 3 Supports the Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT Adopts regional risk appetite Identification, assessment Support the Group Risk Committee in reviewing and management of risks at and monitoring effectiveness of risk management regional and site levels and Identification, assessment and management across functions of risks at the regional level Monitoring of risk management process and effectiveness of internal control 4 4 Identification, assessment and mitigation of risks Promoting risk awareness and safety culture Viability statement As a global steel and mining group, EVRAZ is exposed to a range of The assessment included consideration of the stress testing Base scenario: the key assumptions as disclosed in note 6 to the risks and inherent uncertainties that are explained more fully in this detailed below, with particular attention paid to the forecast cash financial statements under Impairment of assets on page 191: section.
The Groups principal risks and its approach to managing them, position and compliance with financial maintenance covenants in future pricing of steel and raw materials is based upon the upper together with the latest financial forecasts and five year strategic plan, each scenario and the mitigation plan developed by management.
end of the external analyst forecasts set out in Note 6: annual have formed the basis for our assessment of longer term viability.
steel volumes are assumed not to exceed the 2015 level over the The assessment was underpinned by scenarios that encompass a five year period to December 2020: In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance wide spectrum of potential outcomes.
These scenarios are designed Global economic decline: steel and raw material prices and Code 2014, the Board has assessed the prospects of the Group to explore the Groups resilience to the significant risks set out on exchange rates during 2016 are assumed to be lower than the over the period of the current strategic plan to December 2020 and pages 30-31 and combinations of correlated risks.
The key scenarios level of January 2016: demand during 2016 is assumed to remain consider it possible to form a reasonable expectation of the Groups can be summarised as: at the level of January 2016 with a gradual recovery in subsequent viability over this five year period.
periods: future pricing assumptions are at the lower end of the external analyst forecast set out in Note 6: Annual Report & Accounts 2015 e N f s A i o v W P n t e P O d e i l R D r d s s - O a s P u A o O C u A T B H n i t m a n e a e g t e t i m m e n m t t o e a m k s s i R p u o r G 29 Strategic report RISK MANAGEMENT Detailed risk assessments and risk evaluations were conducted at the plant and mine levels.
The Risk Committee last reviewed the Groups risk profile in September 2015 and finalised the assessment in February 2016.
EVRAZ 2015 heat map Probability 5 1 4 9 4 5 6 7 8 3 2 2 3 1 1 2 3 4 5 Minimum Maximum Maximum Severity Risk migration in 2015 1 Global economic factors, industry conditions 2 Competition Successful implementation of skill development programmes has led to a re-assessment of the HR risk as a non-principal risk.
3 Cost effectiveness 4 Treasury: availability of finance Risks of increased competition and cost effectiveness are reported separately, as the Group considers them as partly internal risks, as opposed to mostly external as in previous years.
5 Functional currency devaluation Developments in 2015: 6 HSE: environmental 7 HSE: health, safety Introduction of viability analysis and related statement as response to new FRC requirements Detailed analysis of cyber risk 8 Potential action by governments Regular semi-annual reassessment of risks 9 Business interruption Increased conversion costs in the CIS: EVRAZ considers that this stress-testing based assessment of its In making this statement, the Directors have made the following Limited access to capital markets: prospects is reasonable given the risks and inherent uncertainties key assumptions: Appreciation of local operating currencies: facing the business.
the continued availability of funding or refinancing, by way of Business interruption: lost production and restoration costs: and capital market, bank debt and asset financing, of up to half the Combinations of correlated risks scenarios.
The Directors confirm that their assessment of the principal risks current debt level in all the scenarios considered: and facing the Group is robust.
Based upon this robust assessment and the financial maintenance covenants can continue to be managed if The scenarios are designed to be severe but plausible.
They stress testing of Group prospects in a number of risk related scenarios, and when necessary through repayment of certain borrowings, take full account of the potential actions available to mitigate the the Directors have a reasonable expectation that EVRAZ will be able to financial covenant resets, a waiver from lenders and or occurrence and impact of the risk, and the likely effectiveness of such continue in operation and meets its liabilities as they fall due over the refinancing of certain borrowings.
The process makes certain assumptions about the normal level five year period to December 2020. selling prices remain in line with prevailing market assumptions.
of capital recycling likely to occur and considers whether additional financing facilities will be required and available in each scenario.
com Principal risks Risk Description Mitigating risk management actions in 2015 Risk direction EVRAZ operations are dependent on the global macroeconomic environment and economic and industry conditions, e. g. Downscaling of inefficient assets and suspension of production in low-growth regions.
1 the global supply and demand balance for steel and particularly for iron ore and coking coal, which can affect both product Focused investment policy aimed at reducing and managing the cost base with the objective of being among the sectors prices and volumes across all markets.
Global economic factors, As EVRAZ operations involve substantial fixed costs, global economic and industry conditions can impact the Groups Expansion of product portfolio and sales geography to better serve current and future customers.
Excessive supply in global market and greater competition.
Expansion of product portfolio and penetration of new geographic and product markets.
2 Increasing competition in the rail product segment from Mechel and a new rail producer in Kazakhstan.
Development and improvement of loyalty and customer focus programmes and initiatives.
Competition The majority of the Groups steel production remains sensitive to costs and prices.
For both the mining and steelmaking operations, the Group executes cost reduction projects to increase the competitiveness 3 Maintaining a low-cost position is one of EVRAZ key business objectives in steelmaking and the iron ore and coking of assets.
Focused investment policy aimed at reducing and managing the cost base.
Cost effectiveness Key steel and coking coal assets are in the first quartile of the cost curve, which helps to maintain profitability even Further expansion and control of the Groups Russian steel distribution network.
Impact from the possible introduction of limitations on repatriation of foreign-currency export revenues, as well as Action to extend the debt maturity profile and diversify sources of funding.
4 additional regulations or limitations on cross-border capital flows.
Liquidity risk is managed by revisiting capital expenditure plans, cost optimisation programmes, asset portfolios and the Potential government action, including economic sanctions impacting Russian entities, might increase the Groups dividend policy.
Treasury: capital market risk regarding additional funding.
availability of finance Any significant fluctuation in subsidiaries functional currencies relative to the US dollar could have a significant effect EVRAZ works to reduce the amount of intergroup loans denominated in Russian roubles and Ukrainian hryvnias to limit the 5 on the Groups financial accounts, which might impact its ability to borrow.
possible devaluation effect on its consolidated net income.
Functional currency devaluation Steel and mining production carry an inherent risk of environmental impact and incidents relating to issues as diverse Implementation of air emission and water use reduction programmes at plants.
6 as water usage, quality of water discharged, air emissions, waste recycling, tailing management, air emissions including Waste management improvement programmes.
greenhouse gases, and community satisfaction.
The majority of EVRAZ operations are certified under ISO 14001 and the Group continues to work towards bringing the HSE: environmental Consequently, EVRAZ faces risks including regulatory fines, penalties, adverse impact on reputation and, in the extreme, the remaining plants to ISO 14001 requirements.
EVRAZ is currently compliant with REACH requirements.
withdrawal of plant environmental licences, which would curtail operations indefinitely.
Potential danger of fire, explosions and electrocution, as well as risks specific to individual mines: methane levels, Management KPIs place significant emphasis on safety performance and the standardisation of critical safety 7 rock falls and other accidents could lead to outage or production delays, loss of qualified personnel, loss of material, programmes.
equipment or product, or extensive damage compensation.
Implementation of energy isolation programme.
HSE: health, safety Breach of any HSE laws, regulations and standards may result in fines, penalties, suspension of production, or other Introduction of a programme of behaviour safety observations drives a more proactive approach to preventing injuries sanctions.
Prolonged outages or production delays, especially in coal mining, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups Introduction of contractual safety programme, reduction of number of contractors.
A series of health and safety initiatives related to underground mining.
Maintenance and repair modernisation programmes, downtime management system.
New laws, regulations or other requirements could limit the Groups ability to obtain financing in international markets, While these risks are mostly not within the Groups control, EVRAZ and its executive teams are members of various 8 sell its products and purchase equipment.
As a result, they contribute to the development of such bodies and, when appropriate, Risk of capital controls that affect the Group in terms of free flow of capital.
participate in relevant discussions with political and regulatory authorities.
Potential action EVRAZ may also be adversely affected by government sanctions against Russian business or otherwise reducing its by governments ability to conduct business with counterparties.
Risk of adverse geopolitical situation in countries of operation.
Prolonged outages or production delays, especially in coal mining, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups The Group has defined and established disaster recovery procedures which are subject to regular review.
Business 9 operating performance, production, financial condition and future prospects.
interruptions in mining mainly relate to production safety.
Measures to mitigate these risks include methane monitoring In addition, long-term business interruption may result in a loss of customers and competitive advantage, and damage and degassing systems, timely mining equipment maintenance, employee safety training and development of Business interruption to the Groups reputation.
Detailed analysis of causes of incidents is performed in order to develop and implement preventative actions.
Records of minor interruptions are reviewed to identify any more significant underlying issues.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 31 Strategic report Principal risks Risk Description Mitigating risk management actions in 2015 Risk direction EVRAZ operations are dependent on the global macroeconomic environment and economic and industry conditions, e. g. Downscaling of inefficient assets and suspension of production in low-growth regions.
