Fidessa group plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report continued Risk factors and uncertainties There are a number of potential risk factors that could have a material adverse effect on Fidessas operations, its financial results or the value and liquidity of its securities.
During the year the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing Fidessa, including those that threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and the table below identifies the known principal risk factors: the table is not intended to be exhaustive.
There has been no overall material change to Fidessas risk profile from previous years.
There may also be risks that are not currently considered to be serious or which are currently unknown.
Where reasonably possible, Fidessa has taken steps to manage or mitigate the risks or potential risks but it cannot entirely safeguard against all of them.
Additionally, and where feasible, Fidessa has purchased reasonable levels of insurance, including cyber liability cover, to mitigate against the financial exposure arising from known or potential risk.
The Board considers its risk assessment processes to be compliant with the current governance requirements.
Further details of its internal control and risk management systems are set out in the Audit Committees Report.
Risk factor Risk impact and mitigation Economic conditions and competitors: Impact: adverse economic conditions or the activities of competitors could harm Fidessas revenue, profit, growth Instability of the financial system, market disruptions or and cash flow over a sustained period.
suspensions A material downturn in financial markets or Mitigation: Fidessas business model generates a high economic recession level of recurring revenue which lessens the immediate The insolvency, closure, consolidation or rationalisation effect of downturns in end markets or competitor actions.
of parts of its customer base In addition, Fidessa is a global business which provides Competitors actions leading to loss of customers resilience against regional recession.
Fidessas service line structure together with dialogue with customers, research and marketing activities help provide focus to maintain a competitive advantage.
Service: Impact: a failure in the delivery of an aspect of service or a software error could immediately and materially damage Inability to access an office or data centre facility Fidessas revenue, profit, growth and reputation.
Delay to or failure of an implementation of Fidessa software or service Mitigation: through established controls and procedures, Lack of access to the Fidessa services or failure of data including a rigorous test process, Fidessa aims to prevent transmission from Fidessa data centres many of these risks materialising.
In addition, the service Saturation of network or infrastructure capacity environment is monitored using tools and processes so Software error or external interference for individual or that issues arising can be detected and reacted to at an multiple customers causing trading errors or preventing early stage.
In designing and managing facilities, the customers from trading resilience and capacity are of high importance so that Fidessa products or services cause customers to continuity of service is expected.
Fidessas regulatory breach regulations teams monitor applicable requirements and advise on how Test trades entering a live market they are to be reflected in the software and services.
Fidessa group plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk factor Risk impact and mitigation Security and data: Impact: a security, cyber security or customer data breach may immediately and materially affect Fidessas reputation Unauthorised access to and or breach of systems, with possible implications for revenue and growth over the network or premises shortto medium-term.
Such a breach may also cause Loss, corruption or misuse of customer or Fidessa data financial loss, for example as a result of contractual claims or regulatory penalties.
Mitigation: Fidessa has robust cyber and physical security policies and procedures, managed by dedicated cyber security staff: these provide a substantial level of protection.
Fidessa limits access to systems, office and data centre areas to appropriate personnel.
Penetration testing is undertaken to monitor the effectiveness of security and cyber security and identify areas for improvement.
Separation between the corporate network and the customer environment further reduces security risk.
Legal: Impact: an injunction against Fidessa in connection with a breach of a third partys intellectual property right could Contractual risk prevent Fidessa from delivering its full portfolio of Claims for infringement of a third partys products and services whilst contesting that injunction.
intellectual property Other legal actions brought by or against Fidessa may Infringement of Fidessas intellectual property have an impact on profit and cash balances.
Mitigation: Fidessa maintains a rigorous process for approving contractual terms and deliverables to control the level of risk that is accepted.
Fidessa controls its product development processes to focus on its own innovation and intellectual property and seeks to protect its own inventions through the development of a patent portfolio.
Employees: Impact: the loss of key employees or a skills shortage may have an effect on Fidessas ability to implement its Loss of key employees strategies and business plans over the shortto Skills shortage medium-term.
Mitigation: Fidessa recognises that it is important to provide a stimulating environment in which to work, and provide the development and training to create successful careers whilst also rewarding fairly and competitively.
Fidessa group plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report continued Risk factor Risk impact and mitigation Financial: Impact: the occurrence of some of the financial risks highlighted may weaken cash balances, revenue and profit Foreign exchange fluctuations on transactions or over the short-term.
balances that are denominated in a foreign currency Collapse of financial institutions holding Fidessas Mitigation: Fidessa has an established treasury policy that cash deposits limits the level of single counterparty risk and foreign Impairment of goodwill arising from acquisitions exchange hedging is not necessary as a significant level of natural hedge exists.
Bribery, corruption and fraud: Impact: instances of bribery, corruption or fraud may damage Fidessas reputation, weaken revenue if customers Anti-bribery policies are not followed cancel or do not renew their contracts and result in Bribery and corruption are endemic in certain financial loss.
jurisdictions Fraudulent activities or theft by employees Mitigation: Fidessa has an established set of anti-bribery Collusion between employees and customers suppliers policies and an established training programme.
Fidessa has security processes, including access controls, in place for key business areas.
Access to bank accounts is controlled and monitored centrally.
Additionally, internal audit reviews are undertaken on key control areas.
Regulation: Impact: failure to comply with changes in regulations that concern Fidessas software, services or operations may Changes in regulations in financial markets affecting have an impact on Fidessas reputation, revenue and cash the software and services that Fidessa provides balances over the shortto medium-term.
Health and safety and environmental regulation affecting Fidessas operations Mitigation: Being a workflow provider, changes in financial market regulation are normally beneficial for Fidessas business.
It has a team of specialists who monitor regulatory developments and how they need to be reflected in the products and services offered.
Fidessa maintains awareness of applicable laws that are likely to affect its operations whilst developing procedures and providing training that are designed to ensure compliance.
Advice is obtained from external experts as necessary.
