Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal Our risk management approach control.
Following publication of the revised UK Corporate Governance We have a well-established risk management methodology which we Code and the recent Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Risk use throughout the business to allow us to identify and manage the Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business principal risks that could: Reporting, a review of theGroups risk management framework will be Q adversely impact the safety or security of the Groups employees, undertaken in 2016. customers and or assets Q Risk management structure have a material impact on the financial or operational performance Whilst some risks such as fuel costs and treasury risk are managed of the Group ata Group level, all of our businesses own and manage the risks Q impede achievement of the Groups strategic objectives and theyface with appropriate assistance from the Groupfunctions financial targets: and or asnecessary.
Q adversely impact the Groups reputation or stakeholder The current structure is as follows: expectations.
Responsibility Process Board and Audit Committee The Board has overall Review and conrmation of Group responsibility for the Groups and divisional risks presented to systems of internal control and the Board and Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has a specic responsibility to review and validate the systems of risk management and internal control.
The Risk Group has oversight of The Risk Group and Internal Audit the Groups risk management review and challenge Group and Internal Risk processes.
Audit Group Internal Audit provide assurance on the key risk mitigating controls and ensure that the audit plan is appropriately risk-based.
Business division and Group Facilitated by the Risk Group, function management have divisional and Group risk Business divisions responsibility for the identication champions maintain and and management of risks, updaterisk registers for their developing appropriate mitigating function or division.
Risks and actions and the maintenance of mitigating actions are monitored risk registers.
through normal business management processes.
44 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic objectives 1 Focused and disciplined bidding in our contract businesses Driving growth through attractive commercial propositions in our 2 passenger revenue businesses 3 Continuous improvement in operating and financial performance 4 Prudent investment in our key assets eets, systems and people Maintain responsible partnerships with our customers andcommunities 5 Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups principal risks are set out below.
These risks have been assessed taking into account their potential impact, the likelihood of occurrence and any change to this compared to the prior year and the residual risk after the implementation of controls.
Each risk is linked to the relevant strategic objectives, which are detailed on page 14.
Furtherinformation on our risk management processes is contained inthe Corporate governance report on pages 58 to 75.
Risk and potential impact Movement Mitigation during the year Economic conditions 1 2 3 Economic conditions affect our businesses in different ways.
To an extent, our UK Bus and Greyhound operating companies are able to modify services to react to A downturn could have a negative impact on our businesses in terms of economic impacts.
reduced demand and reduced opportunities for growth or to retain or Whilst economic securenew business.
The same factors could also affect our key suppliers.
An applicant tracking system has been conditions have introducedinour UK divisions to streamline the An improving economic climate, particularly when combined with lower generally improved in recruitment process and assist in providing fuelprices, may result in reduced demand for public transportation in our our markets, in some asuitable pool of drivers to help manage any Greyhound business as alternative modes of transport become relatively areas economic shortages in an efficient and cost-effective way.
recovery has been Asimilar system is being rolled out in our North varied, for example Improving economic conditions may also result in a tightening of labour American divisions.
insome of our local markets resulting in employee shortages or pressure to increase pay.
Political and regulatory issues 2 3 4 5 Our businesses are all subject to numerous laws and regulations covering a The Group has embedded operating policies and wide range of matters including health and safety, equipment, employment procedures in all of our businesses to ensure including working time, wage and hour, mandatory breaks and holiday pay, compliance with existing legislation and regulation.
Our businesses are at competition and anti-trust, data protection and security, bribery and The Group has dedicated legal teams in the UK risk from further political corruption, environmental including carbon and air emissions, insurance and North America who oversee the Groups and regulatory change.
coverage, consumer protection, and other operational issues.
Failure to compliance and training programmes and comply could have financial or reputational implications, could result in adviseon emerging issues.
increased litigation and claims and have a negative impact on the Groups The Group actively engages with the relevant ability to bid for new contracts.
government and transport bodies and policy These laws and regulations are constantly subject to change, the impact makers tohelp ensure that we are properly ofwhich could include increased compliance costs and or a reduction in positioned to respond to any proposed changes.
Political risk remains an issue, particularly in the UK where the new Government is proposing to devolve powers for cities to regulate bus services in their area.
Any such regulation could impact the profitability ofouroperations or impose additional costs or operating constraints.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk and potential impact Movement Mitigation during the year Contracted businesses 1 3 5 The Groups First Student, First Transit and UK Rail divisions are contracted The relevant divisions have experienced and businesses dependent on the ability to renew and secure new contract wins dedicated bid teams who undertake careful on profitable terms.
Failure to do so would result in reduced revenue and economic modelling of contract bids and, No material change profitability and incorrect modelling or bid assumptions could lead to greater wherepossible, seek to negotiate risk sharing during the year.
than anticipated costs or losses.
arrangements with the relevant customer or contracting authority.
Failure to comply with contract terms could result in termination, litigation and financial penalties and failure to win new or non-renewal of existing contracts.
Competition 1 2 3 All of the Groups businesses both contracted and non-contracted The Group continues to focus on service quality competein the areas of pricing and service and face competition from and performance as priorities in making our anumber of sources.
services attractive to passengers and other No material change customers.
Our main competitors include the private car and existing and new public during the year.
and private transport operators across all our markets.
In our contract businesses, contract compliance, acompetitive bidding strategy and a strong Increased competition can result in lost business, revenue and biddingteam are key.
In addition, wherever possible, the Group works with local and national bodies to promote measures aimed at increasing demand for public transport and the other services that we offer.
Information technology 2 3 4 5 The Group relies on information technology in all aspects of our businesses.
As a result of the continuing threat of cyber-attacks, Any significant disruption or failure, caused by external factors, denial of our operations are implementing new threat service, computer viruses or human error could result in a service interruption, detection systems.
Web and mobile sales accident or misappropriation of confidential information including credit card The Group has also increased its focus on asset channels are of and personal data.
Process failure, security breach or other operational management and further enhanced its IT security increasing importance difficulties may also lead to revenue loss or increased costs, fines, penalties processes and procedures during the year.
across many of our oradditional insurance requirements.
Prolonged failure of our sales websites The Group has further strengthened its IT project businesses.
could also adversely affect revenues.
management capability during the year, particularly Continued successful delivery and implementation of the Greyhound IT within Greyhound.
transformation plan is required to improve yield management and drive futuregrowth.
Failure to manage the implementation of new IT systems properly may result inincreased costs and or lost revenue.
Rail franchises bidding 1 3 5 Competition for new rail franchises is intense.
We bid against operators of The Group has an experienced and dedicated current UK rail franchises and rail operators from other countries, principally railbid team which will continue to compete for from within the European Union.
Whilst our current UK rail franchises have franchises as they are re-let.
Direct awards have been extended, failure to win franchises in the future will result in a lower The Group also has a comprehensive review beenmade in the year UKRail division contribution and profitability.
process for bids as they are developed and toextend the First Rail franchises are large and complex arrangements and incorrect modelling or finalised involving a number of divisional and TransPennine Express bid assumptions could lead to greater than anticipated costs or losses.
Breach Groupfunctions as well as final Board sign off.
and First Great Western of the Groups existing franchise agreements could potentially result in their rail franchises.
Compliance with our rail franchise agreements termination causing loss of revenue and cash flow as well as some or all of isclosely managed and monitored on a monthly theamounts set aside as security for performance and season ticket bonds.
basis by senior management and procedures are The new First Great Western franchise will cover a period during which there in place to minimise the risk of non-compliance.
willbe significant change in the franchise including major infrastructure work, electrification and re-signalling as well as the introduction of new trains, which willrequire careful planning and management.
Failure to manage these risks adequately in accordance with our plans could result in financial and reputational risk tothe Group.
46 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic objectives 1 Focused and disciplined bidding in our contract businesses Driving growth through attractive commercial propositions in our 2 passenger revenue businesses 3 Continuous improvement in operating and financial performance 4 Prudent investment in our key assets eets, systems and people Maintain responsible partnerships with our customers andcommunities 5 Risk and potential impact Movement Mitigation during the year Treasury risks 1 3 4 As set out in further detail in note 23 to the financial statements on pages 136 The Groups treasury policy and delegated to 140, treasury risks include liquidity risks, risks arising from changes to foreign authorities are reviewed periodically to ensure exchange rates and interest rates and hedging risk.
compliance with best practice and to control No change in the year.
Foreign currency and interest rate movements impact profit, balance sheet and cash ows of the Group.
The Group is continuously focused on improving operating and financial efficiency as part of our Ineffective hedging arrangements may not fully mitigate losses or may strategic objectives as outlined on page 14. increasethem.
The Group is credit rated by Standard & Poors and Fitch.
A downgrade in theGroups credit ratings to below investment grade may lead to increased nancing costs and other consequences and affect the Groups ability to investin its operations.
Pensions 3 4 The Group sponsors or participates in a number of significant dened benefit Through diversication of investments, hedging pension schemes, primarily in the UK ofliabilities, amendment of the dened benefit promises and the introduction of a dened Future cash contribution requirements may increase or decrease based upon No material change contribution scheme for new starters in UK Bus financial markets, notably investment returns valuations, the rates used to during the year.
andGroup, the Group has reduced these risks.
value the liabilities and through changes to life expectancy and could result inmaterial changes in the accounting cost and cash contributions required.
Under the UK Rail franchise arrangements, theGroups train operating companies are not responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a franchise so there is only short term cash ow risk within a particular franchise.
Fuel costs 1 3 4 Fuel is a significant component of the Groups operating costs.
Fuel prices The Group has a forward hedging programme and supply levels can be inuenced signicantly by international, political and providing xed fuel prices and cost certainty.
Some of the Groups contracts also enable us No overall material Volatility in fuel prices or supply restrictions, shortages or interruptions could topass on fuel cost increases to customers.
adversely impact the Groups operations, cash ow and profitability.
For The Groups businesses may have the opportunity example, Greyhounds passenger revenues were adversely affected during to limit the impact of unexpected fuel price rises or the year by the rapid decline in oil prices.
revenue reductions caused by lower oil prices through The Group may be unable to pass fuel cost volatility on fully to customers efficiency, pricing and cost control measures.
and hedging arrangements may not fully mitigate losses or may First Students DriveSMART and the purchase increasethem.
ofnew fuel efficient buses in our UK Bus division Oil prices may also adversely affect the economic activity of those customers are initiatives aimed at reducing fuel usage in whichare dependent on oil and gas revenues, reducing demand for ourbusinesses.
Terrorism 5 The threat from terrorism is enduring and continues to exist in all of our We continue to develop and apply good practice, markets.
Public transport has previously been subject to attack and across and train our employees so that they can identify our businesses, we take all reasonable steps to help guard against such and respond effectively to any potential threat No material change activity on the services we operate.
An attack or threat of attack could lead to reduced public confidence in Our focus is enhanced through close working public transportation, and or specically in the Groups security and safety relationships with specialist government agencies record and could reduce demand for our services, increase costs or security both in the UK and North America.
requirements and cause operational disruption.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk and potential impact Movement Mitigation during the year Customer service 2 3 5 The Groups revenues are at risk if we do not continue to provide the level Our commitment to our customers is embedded in ofservice expected by our customers.
Failure to provide acceptable levels of our values see page 12.
The relevant employees customer service could lead to non-renewal of contracts, reductions in undertake intensive training programmes to ensure No overall material passenger revenues and or have negative reputational impact.
that they are aware of, and abide by, the levels of change in the year.
service that are required by our customers in each business.
Ongoing engagement with customers and community stakeholders takes place across the Group, including through meet the manager events, customer panels, consultations and localpartnerships.
The Board also monitors customer service KPIs toensure that strict targets are being met.
Litigation and claims 3 The Group has three main insurable risks: third party injury and other claims The Group has a very strong focus on safety and, arising from vehicle and general operations, employee injuries and asdescribed on page 12, it is one of our five values.
The Group self-insures third party and employee The claims environment, injury claims up to a certain level commensurate with The Group is also subject to other litigation, which is not insured, particularly particularly in our North the historical risk prole.
We purchase insurance in North America, including contractual claims and those relating to employee American businesses, above these limits from reputable global insurance wage and hour and meal and break matters.
Claims are managed by experienced claims A higher volume of litigation and claims can lead to increased costs, despite our continued handlers.
reducedavailability of insurance cover, and or reputational impact.
Non-insured claims are managed by the Groups A large single claim or a large number of smaller claims may negatively dedicated in-house legal team with external affectprotability and cash ow.
Attraction and retention of key management 2 3 4 5 Attracting and retaining key members of senior management is a vital part of Our Group-wide succession planning process and ensuring that the Group continues to have the necessary expertise and performance development approach is designed continuity to execute its strategy and turnaround plans.
to identify talented individuals, set development Our dened business goals for progression to other roles and to assess plans have enabled us the depth of talent and any gaps throughout the to attract and retain high leadership of FirstGroup.
The Group also offers quality management.
market-based compensation packages consistingof an appropriate mix of long and shortterm incentives.
Employee costs and relations 1 2 3 4 5 Employee costs represent the largest component of the Groups operating The Group seeks to mitigate these risks via its costs, and political or union pressure to increase wages could increase these recruitment and retention policies, training costs.
Improving economic conditions resulting in labour shortages or schemes and working practices.
No material change decreasing unemployment rates could hinder our ability to recruit and retain An applicant tracking system has been introduced during the year.
Our employees are key to service delivery and therefore inour UK divisions to streamline the recruitment it is important that good employee relations are maintained.
process and assist in providing a suitable pool of High employee turnover could lead to higher than expected increases in the drivers to help manage any shortages in an cost of recruitment, training and employee costs and operational disruption.
A similar system Similarly, industrial action could adversely impact customer service and have isbeing rolled out in our North American divisions.
a financial impact on the Groups operations.
Our working practices include building communication and engagement with trade unionsand the wider workforce.
Examples ofthisengagement include regular leadership conferences, employee surveys and the presence of Employee Directors Directors voted for by the employees to represent them on many of the Groups UK divisional boards and the Board.
48 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic objectives 1 Focused and disciplined bidding in our contract businesses Driving growth through attractive commercial propositions in our 2 passenger revenue businesses 3 Continuous improvement in operating and financial performance 4 Prudent investment in our key assets eets, systems and people Maintain responsible partnerships with our customers andcommunities 5 Risk and potential impact Movement Mitigation during the year Environmental 3 4 5 The Groups operations store and manage large quantities of fuel which To mitigate these risks, the Groups storage presents a potential regulatory, reputational and financial risk in the event of facilities are subject to regular inspection and significant loss or spillage.
wehave detailed fuel handling procedures No material change whichareregularly audited.
As a leading transport provider, we face the challenge of addressing climate overall during the year.
change, both through managing its impact and reducing emissions.
The Robust environmental policies, strategies and Groups businesses are at risk from future changes in the regulatory regime management systems are maintained across which could increase compliance costs or impose operational constraints.
The Group continues to target reductions in our emissions, including through behaviour change initiatives and investment in new technology.
Severe weather and natural disasters 3 Greater and more frequent adverse weather could lead to interruptions or The geographic spread of the Groups businesses disruption to service performance and reduced customer demand with offers some protection.
In addition, some of our consequent financial impact, potential increased costs and accident rates.
contract-based businesses have force majeure Whilst the Groups clauses in place.
We have severe weather action Severe weather can reduce profits, for example through lower demand for North American plans and procedures to manage the impact on our services, increased costs, business disruption and increased accidents.
operations were not our operations.
asbadly affected by severe weather as they were in the prior year, adverse weather in thenorth eastern US inthe last quarter still had an impact.
The risks listed are not all of those highlighted by our risk management processes and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or currently deemed to be less material, may also impact our business.
Indication of a movement in a risk may not indicate a change in the overall net risk position after taking into account risk mitigations.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49
