Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Managing our Risks Risk is inherent in all business activities.
We maintain a comprehensive risk management framework that serves to identify, assess and respond to our principal risks.
Our approach is not intended to eliminate risk entirely, but rather to provide the structural means to identify, prioritise and manage the risks involved in our activities in order to support our value creation objectives.
Governance In accordance with our governance practices, Executive Management reviews strategic The Board of Directors is responsible the Audit Committee supports the Board of objectives and risk appetite, assesses the for maintaining the Companys risk Directors in monitoring the Companys risk level of risk related to achieving these management and internal control systems.
exposures and is responsible for reviewing objectives, and incorporates controls into The Boards mandate includes defining risk the effectiveness of the risk management the strategic and operating plans to mitigate appetite and monitoring risk exposures to and internal control systems.
This top-down risk identification and ensure that the nature and extent of Manager and Internal Audit support the assessment process helps to ensure that significant risks taken by the Company Audit Committee in evaluating the design the bottom-up process performed at the are aligned with our overall goals and and operating effectiveness of the risk business unit level is aligned with and strategic objectives.
mitigation strategies and the internal focused on current strategy and objectives.
Risk management framework diagram Top-down The Board Oversight, identification, Has overall responsibility Sets strategic objectives Monitors the nature and Provides direction on the assessment and for the Groups risk and defines risk appetite extent of risk exposure importance of risk mitigation of risk at management and against risk appetite for management and risk corporate level internal control systems our principal risks management culture Executive Committee Audit Committee Internal Audit Assesses and mitigates our risks Supports the Board in monitoring Supports the Audit Committee in Company-wide risk exposure against risk appetite reviewing the effectiveness of our Monitors our risk management Reviews the effectiveness of our risk management and internal process and internal controls risk management and internal controls systems controls systems Bottom-up Identification, Operational level assessment and Risk management process and Risk identification, assessment Risk awareness and safety culture mitigation of risk at internal controls embedded across and mitigation performed across embedded across the business business unit level and functional areas, mining operations, the business across functional areas projects and exploration sites 36 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Risk management system The annual and ongoing elements of the Groups risk management process 2 are controlled by well-established risk 2 identification, assessment and monitoring 1 processes.
We have progressed in embedding a risk management culture 3 amongst all employees, however this is an 7 7 4 4 ongoing process and we are still working to 3 6 demonstrate this with evidence collected 5 through the monitoring of our controls to 11 mitigate risks.
9 We have continued to build on our existing risk management framework, enhancing risk 8 8 management and internal control systems 10 across the business in line with changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In addition to the permanent risk management activities, our priority for 2016 is to continue promoting a monitoring environment which consists of validating the effectiveness of our current controls in order to support the Board in their responsibilities, which include monitoring Likelihood and reviewing risk management and the internal control systems.
Unlikely Almost certain 2015 risk assessment X X 2015 2014 The annual risk assessment exercise across all our operations, advanced projects, exploration offices, support and corporate Risk areas identified and evaluated 104 risks in 1.
Impact of global macroeconomic developments silver and gold prices v 2015.
This universe was narrowed down 2.
Access to land v into major risks monitored by Executive Management and the Audit Committee, and 3.
Potential actions by the government e. g. taxes more stringent regulations v then further consolidated into 11 principal 4.
Security risks closely monitored by Executive 5.
Public perception against mining Management and the Board of Directors.
Projects performance risk v For the bottom-up process, the teams in 7.
Safety charge of each business unit determined the 8.
Union relations perceived level of risk for their individual unit.
Exploration Executive Management then reviewed and challenged each perceived level through the 10.
Human resources evaluation of certain controls and relative risk 11.
Environmental incidents v levels, and compared it to Fresnillo plcs risk universe as a whole.
The result of this Bold text indicates those risks which have changed during 2015. exercise is used as another input for the v Risk that was considered for the viability assessment as detailed on page 48. selection of the principal risks of Fresnillo plc.
The same risk analysis was conducted on We believe there were a number of impacted and also profit sharing to advanced projects, detailing the specific risks developments in 2015 that have the employees and union workers has faced by each project according to the potential to adversely impact the entire decreased.
As a result of these changes we unique characteristics and conditions of each Mexican mining industry.
These include determined that the following risk rating site.
The risk heat map for each business unit Mexicos transition towards indigenous levels facing Fresnillo plc have increased: and development project is included in the consultation which is an emerging initiative potential actions by the government, Review of Operations pages 50 to 61. but worth monitoring : the perceived level security, access to land and union of corruption across Mexico remaining relations.
As with all our key risks, the Board high: continued legal challenges to the and the Executive Committee continue to mining industry by individuals and local closely monitor them.
communities who may seek to disregard previous land agreements: and due to lower metal prices, profit levels have been 37 Very low Severe Impact Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Managing our Risks continued Impact of global macroeconomic developments Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy There could be an adverse impact on our Fresnillos hedging policy remains guided by the High Mines in operation sales and profit, and potentially the principle of providing shareholders with full Development projects economic viability of projects, from exposure to gold and silver prices.
However, Growth pipeline macroeconomic developments such as: following shareholder approval for the acquisition Risk rating relative position of 44% of Penmont and associated companies in 2015: Very high 1 2014, we initiated a specific hedging programme to 2014: Very high 1 A decrease in precious metal prices protect the value of the investment made in the Key risk indicators primary driver of the risk : this was the acquisition, using a collar structure to allow partial case for silver and gold in 2015, with a Gross profit sensitivity continued exposure to gold prices.
The volume Change in heat map: decline of 16.5% and 8.5% respectively, to percentage change associated with this phased hedging programme in their annual average price over the in metals price and to was strictly limited to up to the 44% of production previous year.
Mexican peso US dollar associated with the acquired Penmont assets and exchange rate Gold and silver prices continued to show will not be extended to other assets in the Group.
Description of risk change high volatility in 2015.
The total volume hedged was 1,559,689 oz of EBITDA sensitivity to which 266,760 oz matured in 2015 with a profit of percentage change in Most currencies suffered a devaluation vs Most industry and financial US$1.0 million.
For more details, see Financial metals price and to analysts who follow metal US dollar, including the Mexican peso, in Review on pages 89 and 93 Mexican peso US dollar prices continue to foresee 2015. lower average silver and gold exchange rate General inflation in Mexico was 2.06% in Fresnillo is not precluded from entering into prices for 2016 and high Mexican pesos in 2015: the specific derivatives to minimise its exposure to changes in volatility in their long-term the prices of lead and zinc by-products.
As in deflation affecting the Company was forecasts.
previous years, the Group entered into a hedging 8.4% in US dollar terms.
structure in 2015 to mitigate the risk related to the A decrease in the price of by-products.
See note 31 in the Financial This was the case for lead with a decline Statements on page 192. of 13.6% and for zinc with a decline of Furthermore, we have hedging policies in place for 15.2% in the annual average price over foreign exchange risk, including those associated the previous year.
with capex related to projects.
The Company entered into a number of foreign exchange contracts of euros and Swedish kronas denominated forward contracts.
See note 31 in the Financial Statements on page 191.
In response to a reduction in the price of certain of our main inputs due to a deflationary environment, we have started to renegotiate long-term conditions for our contracts in order to benefit from the current low prices.
Change in heat map: Vertical movement indicates impact Horizontal movement indicates likelihood 38 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Access to land Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Given our strategy and exploration plan, To maximise our opportunities for successful land Medium Mines in operation failure or significant delays in accessing the access we actively manage our mining rights and Development projects surface over our mineral concessions and surface land hectares focusing on relevant areas: Growth pipeline other land of interest is a persistent risk with at the end of 2015, after adding required areas and Risk rating relative position a potentially high impact on our objectives.
divesting areas of less interest we held 2.0 million 2015: Very high 2 Potential barriers to land access include: hectares, a 3% decrease vs 2014.
Other initiatives 2014: Very high 2 include: Key risk indicators Rising expectations of land owners.
Plan well in advance for land requirements and Percentage of land Refusal to acknowledge prior land Change in heat map: acquisitions e. g. anticipating any issues with a required for advanced acquisition terms and conditions by potential land purchase before intensive exploration projects members of an agrarian community.
In certain areas of interest, leasing that has been Influence of multiple special interests in agreements with purchase options are purchased overall and land negotiations.
by project Description of risk change Conflicts in land boundaries with an Foster strong community relations through Total US$ and The mining industry has been often arduous resolution process.
investment in community programmes and percentage of project facing legal challenges by Succession issues among land owners infrastructure.
Such investments totalled budget spend on individuals and local resulting in a lack of clarity about the US$2.5 million in 2015. communities who may seek to HSECR activities, legal entitlement to possess and sell disregard previous land including community Always seek tri-party cooperation between the agreements.
relations at projects government, community and ourselves in and exploration Litigation risk i. e. increased activism by securing access to land.
In addition, there is an judicial authorities.
industry-wide increase in the Early involvement of the community relations number of cases where access teams during negotiation and acquisition to land by the inhabitants is processes, including the exploration stage.
Furthermore, insecurity and conflicts in our denied.
exploration and operation areas increase the Comprehensive review of the legal status of the complexity of land access.
Combined with the previous Companys land rights in order to mitigate or risk described, Mexican eliminate litigation risk.
This review is governmental authorities are substantially concluded and certain areas of beginning to grant certain opportunity have been identified.
We are in the permits such as process of implementing measures to manage environmental permits only if this risk on a case-by-case basis.
the land owners also give their Continue working with our land negotiation express consent, and not solely teams, comprising negotiators hired directly by depending on whether a Fresnillo and also provided by Peoles as part of Company complies with the service agreement.
environmental or construction requirements for permits.
Thus, the perceived level of this risk has increased.
39 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Managing our Risks continued Potential actions by the government e. g. implementation of more stringent regulations for obtaining permits, etc.
Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy We face the risk of implementation of new Indigenous consultation is an ongoing topic, thus Low Mines in operation governmental requirements that will have we will continue monitoring developments and Development projects an adverse impact on us, or other potential, working with the Mexican Mining Chamber to try Growth pipeline not yet materialised, new or more stringent and reach agreements that will benefit both Risk rating relative position ecological or explosives regulations or more parties going forward.
2015: Very high 3 Sustainable difficult processes to grant permits.
2014: Very high 4 development Nevertheless, such a huge change in the Mining During 2015, Mexicos Supreme Court of Law could take time due to the complexity of the Justice heard a case relating to an injunction terms and proceedings yet to be discussed.
Key risk indicators which analysed the merits and relevance of We continue collaborating with other members of Number of media the right of indigenous communities to prior Change in heat map: the mining community via the Mexican Mining mentions related to and informed consent within the overall Chamber to lobby against new detrimental taxes mining regulations i. e. process for granting mining concessions.
We also support the tax royalties banning Should the Court find in favour of the industrys lobbying efforts to improve the general indigenous communities, a step towards of mining activities in publics understanding of the Mining Law.
creating precedent in this regard will have protected areas legal Description of risk change been taken that could eventually affect the precedents and profile We uphold strict controls on receiving, handling, The indigenous consultation granting of new concessions in Mexico.
of those quoted storing and dispatching explosives in each of topic is being given greater political parties, our operations and projects to maintain our focus in Mexico.
This topic is explosives permits.
government officials, currently not yet regulated by etc.
the Mexican Mining Law as such, however Mexico ratified the Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention issued by the ILO International Labour Organisation which states:... governments shall establish or maintain procedures through which they shall consult these peoples, with a view to ascertaining whether and to what degree their interests would be prejudiced, before undertaking or permitting any programmes for the exploration or exploitation of such resources pertaining to their lands.
The peoples concerned shall wherever possible participate in the benefits of such activities, and shall receive fair compensation for any damages which they may sustain as a result of such activities.
Another factor to increase the level of this risk is the perceived level of corruption across Mexico, which remains high.
We share a general industry view that local and regional government levels in particular have regrettably worsened notwithstanding the national effort of the anti-corruption system, which as of today is not yet fully deployed.
This situation might as a result cause a delay in obtaining permits for certain operations and or projects.
40 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Security Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Our people, contractors and suppliers face We closely monitor the security situation, maintain Low Mines in operation the risk of kidnapping, extortion or harm due clear internal communications and coordinate Development projects to security conditions in the regions where work in areas of higher insecurity, along with the Growth pipeline we operate.
We face the risk of restricted following practices to manage our security risks Risk rating relative position access to operations projects and theft and prevent possible incidents: 2015: Very high 4 Sustainable of assets.
2014: Very high 3 development We maintain close relations with authorities, The influence of drug cartels, other criminal including army encampments installed nearby elements and general lawlessness in the Key risk indicators certain of our operations.
We also reinforce our regions where we operate, combined with relationship with the army secretariat at the Total number of our exploration and project activities in regional level in order to align and coordinate Change in heat map: security incidents areas of transfer or cultivation of drugs, efforts.
affecting our workforce makes working in these areas of particular thefts, kidnapping, risk for us.
Travel management e. g. travel in convoy, use extortion, etc.
aircraft versus land travel when possible and avoid known insecure areas.
Description of risk change Number of sites affected and work In 2015 we developed the engineering for the Continued increased state of days lost, by region standard of technological and physical security insecurity in the regions where and type of site measures for all of our business units.
started the implementation of this engineering Number of media We have suffered minor which is expected to be concluded in 2016. mentions related to security incidents to contractor security issues We contracted security personnel internal and personnel: that said, incidents affecting the mining contractors to improve the efficiency of our are getting closer to our industry security strategy.
We continued to utilise logistics controls in 2015 to further reduce the probability of theft of mineral concentrate, including the use of real-time tracking technology and the use of guard services and control checkpoints in a safe corridor, and reduced authorised stops in order to optimise delivery times and minimise the convoys exposure.
We invest in community programmes, infrastructure improvements, and government initiatives to support development of lawful local communities and discourage criminal acts.
In order to ensure the security of our personnel, access to the San Nicolas del Oro prospect remains suspended because of the state of insecurity in Guerrero state.
Rotation of personnel to reduce their exposure to certain regions.
Promote reporting to authorities amongst our contractors.
41 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Managing our Risks continued Public perception against mining Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Public opinion globally is increasingly Communities are our strategic partners and having Low Mines in operation concerned with the potential adverse social their trust requires understanding and engaging Development projects and environmental consequences of with them effectively and being accountable for Growth pipeline opening and developing mining operations.
Our programme for community Risk rating relative position This sentiment manifests itself through engagement includes: 2015: High 5 Sustainable increased regulatory obligations for mining 2014: High 5 development Conducting community perception studies companies and increased social activism by across all our operating units.
These perception communities and other grass roots audits have allowed each of the business units Key risk indicators organisations.
to update their social risks and opportunities.
In Number of local 2016 we will focus our efforts on improving the Change in heat map: actions by NGOs or specific areas of value for our communities.
other local social Following the guidelines set out by the groups against mining, International Finance Corporation and the by region International Council of Mining and Metals.
Description of risk change Number of actions by Developing a new portfolio of proposals for NGOs or other local The continuous exacerbated institutional projects and alliances with social groups against social activism within the non-governmental organisations NGOs.
mining in the Americas global mining sector has the Implementing a state-of-the-art information potential to impact all our Number of media system to support community relations and strategic areas as well as our mentions related to social investment, which includes analysis and ability to maintain the social manifestations against logs of activities organised by the Company for licence to operate within the the mining industry the communities, and contribution requests communities near our made by the communities.
Monitoring public opinion within local and international media newspapers, radio stations, local channels.
Working with communities at an early exploration stage to understand their needs and communicate the benefits of developing and operating a mine in terms of social welfare and quality of life.
Flawless environmental behaviour key to maintaining communities trust.
The Company collaborates with peers in the international and Mexican mining community to pursue an industry response to this risk.
42 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Projects performance risk Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Pursuing advanced exploration and Our investment evaluation process determines Medium Development projects development opportunities, which are core how to best direct available capital using technical, to meeting our strategic goals, carry certain financial and qualitative criteria.
project-related risks: Risk rating relative position Technical: we assess the resource estimate and 2015: Medium high 6 confirmed resources, metallurgy of the mineral 2014: Medium high 6 Economic viability: impact of capital cost bodies, investment required in general to develop and maintain the mine, future infrastructure e. g. roads, power, general Key risk indicators metal prices and operating costs through services, housing and infrastructure required the mines life cycle.
Earned value rate of for the mine and plant.
Change in heat map: financial advancement Uncertainties associated with developing Financial: we look at risk relative to return for vs physical and operating new mines and expansion proposed investments of capital.
We set advancement projects: fluctuations in ore grade and expected internal rates of return IRR per project recovery, unforeseen complexities in the Percentage of major as thresholds for approving the allocation of mining process, poor rock quality, Description of risk change equipment ordered capital based on the present value of expected unexpected presence of underground and received according Our strict investment cash flows from the invested capital.
water or lack thereof, lack of community to plan governance process and Qualitative factors: e. g. alignment of the support, and inability to obtain and system of capital project Percentage of investment with our strategic plan and maintain required operating permits.
controls remain in place, completion of mine business model: synergies with other safeguarding our ability to Delivery risk: projects may go over development investments and operating assets: implications deliver growth through budget in terms of cost and time, or may for safety, security, people, resourcing and development projects on not be constructed in accordance with community relations.
We are the required specifications, or major prepared to defer certain mining equipment may not be delivered We closely monitor our project controls to ensure projects based on we deliver approved projects on time, on budget on time.
macroeconomic adverse and as per defined specifications.
Management team and Board of Directors are regularly updated on progress.
Each advanced Overall we feel there is exploration project and major capital development sufficient availability of project has a risk register containing the identified equipment, machinery and and assessed risks specific to the project.
contractors within the industry, and with the information In 2012, the Board approved the San Julin available we do not expect silver-gold project with an investment of US$515 additional cost pressure.
million: San Julin is expected to produce an average of 10.3 million ounces of silver and 44,000 ounces of gold per year once at full capacity.
At the end of 2015, the physical advance was 83% in line with the revised plan: the expenses incurred and committed were on budget.
The major risk factor specific to this project is to obtain the environmental permits for the expansion of the tailings dam, however management does not expect this factor to impact the planned start of the project.
43 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Managing our Risks continued Safety Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Inherent to our industry is the risk of We are committed to offering a safe workplace to Low Sustainable incidents due to unsafe acts or conditions our workers and contractors.
We aim for a safety development causing injuries or fatalities to our people.
culture where our personnel and contractors have the knowledge, competence and desire to work Risk rating relative position Our people face risks inherent in the safely.
Our strategy is based on: 2015: High 7 operations, such as fire, explosion, 2014: Medium high 7 Managing our knowledge of safety through electrocution and carbon monoxide identifying and analysing risks, evaluating poisoning, as well as risks specific to each Key risk indicators controls, performing situational assessments, mine site and development project, for Safe behaviour index and monitoring performance.
Change in heat map: example rock falls caused by geological percentage of work conditions, collisions of equipment in Engaging our stakeholders through the No observed that is large operations, cyanide contamination, More Accidents process, which has become a collisions between equipment and people executed safely in permanent programme to reinforce the safety and smaller vehicles.
This programme includes Leaders for Description of risk change Companys safety Safety, Behavioural Change, Operational We have continued to reinforce procedures Discipline, Rules that Save Lives and our safety strategy: regrettably Unsafe conditions comprehensive accident investigation.
we have not reached all our eliminated index Launching initiatives to embed safety in our safety goals during the year as percentage of unsafe one of our contractors suffered culture.
Safety culture is routinely monitored to conditions observed a fatal accident at the Fresnillo assess the attitudes, behaviours and disciplined and recorded that mine due to a breach of safety elimination of unsafe conditions.
In 2015 the Total Recordable Injury Frequency Operational rate increased to 20.98 2014: 18.84 and the Lost procedures availability Time Injury Frequency Rate increased to 5.87 index percentage of 2014: 3.30. required safety Other mitigating activities include: procedures that are available The SafeStart programme was implemented in Cinega, Fresnillo and Saucito.
This programme focuses on the human factors that are involved in the majority of incidents and injuries.
Training, for both employees and contractors.
The average of workforce training in 2015 was 100 hours, of which 69 were related to HSECR training.
See Safety pages 7173 for more on our safety strategy and programmes.
44 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Union relations Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Although we have a risk of union action or We have clearly assigned responsibilities and Low Mines in operation degradation of union relations at some programmes for maintaining close relationships Development projects sites, our overall relationship continues to with unions at mine sites and at the national level.
strengthen: however, internal union politics We have maintained a close communication with Risk rating relative position could impact us negatively as well as pressure the union leaders at various levels of the 2015: Medium low 8 from other mining unions which want to take organisation to raise awareness about the 2014: Medium low 9 over the Fresnillo labour contract.
economic situation the industry is facing.
We engage experienced legal counsel, both internal Key risk indicators and external, to support us.
We are proactive and Union members level timely in our responses to the needs of the unions, Change in heat map: of satisfaction and experienced no labour-related work stoppages in 2015.
Number of media mentions related to We will continue closely monitoring union and mining union labour developments.
Description of risk change developments Because of the lower price cycle in the industry, profit levels have been impacted thus profit sharing to the workers has decreased.
This might be a concern for the unions.
Union leaders attitudes have become more challenging.
In addition to this, a new labour contract was signed with Saucito, as agreed with the union leader.
Internal struggles for leadership between certain sections of the union occurred as well as between different mining unions.
Exploration Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy We are highly dependent on the success of Risk capital invested in exploration in 2015 totalled Medium Growth pipeline the exploration programme to meet our US$151 million, below budget: this was in targets in terms of strategic value-creation accordance with the Groups decision to reduce Risk rating relative position and our long-term production and reserves exploration expenditures in light of current market 2015: Medium 9 goals.
Our exploration objectives for 2016 2014: Medium 8 include a budgeted risk capital invested in Risk factors that may impact prospecting exploration of approximately US$135-US$140 and converting inferred resources apart Key risk indicators million, with the approximate spending split of 27% from the growing level of insecurity and for operating mines, 27% for advanced exploration Change in heat map: Drill programmes access to land include not having a robust projects and the remaining 46% for prospects, completed overall and portfolio of prospects in our pipeline with regional prospecting and mining rights.
We also by project sufficient potential in terms of indicated and ensure we have: inferred resources, and insufficient Change in the number A focus on increasing the regional exploration concession coverage in target areas.
Description of risk change of ounces in reserves drilling programmes to intensify exploration and resources Reasonable investment in Also there could be a risk of losing purchase efforts in the districts with high potential.
Rate of conversion opportunities due to insufficient speed in exploration, even at the low For local exploration, aggressive in-field metal cycle, puts this risk on a from resources to decision making.
exploration to upgrade the resources category stable level, and we foresee no reserves As our production escalates and more mines and to convert inferred resources into reserves.
change in status based on approach the end of their lives, it becomes available information.
A team of highly trained and motivated increasingly challenging to replenish their geologists, both employees and long-term reserves.
Advisory technical reviews by international third party experts up-to-date and integrated GIS databases, remote sensing imagery and software for identifying favourable metallogenic belts and districts to be field-checked by the team.
During 2015 we revised our portfolio of concessions See Exploration pages 6265 for and determined that some did not have the more on our exploration expected potential: thus we voluntarily programmes and investment.
relinquished 62,873 hectares in order to focus our efforts on areas of greater potential.
45 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Managing our Risks continued Human Resources Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Our people are critical to delivering our Recruitment: We assessed our hiring requirements Medium Mines in operation objectives.
We face risks in selecting, for key positions for 2015, and aim to meet Development projects Risk rating relative position recruiting, training and retaining the people openings through internal training and promotion, 2015: Low 10 Growth pipeline we need.
and by recruitment through: 2014: Low 10 Sustainable A lack of reliable contractors with adequate Our close relationships with universities offering development infrastructure, machinery, performance earth sciences programmes we have and skilled people is also a risk that might dedicated programmes to identify potential affect our ability to develop and construct Key risk indicators candidates based on performance who may mining works.
be hired as interns and or employees on Change in heat map: Number of positions graduation.
filled by area of specialty, for vacancies CETEF Centre for Technical Studies Fresnillo and new positions which teaches specific mining operational skills: 12 graduates from 2015 joined the Company as Description of risk change Employee turnover full-time employees.
rate Competition for skilled CETLAR the Peoles Centre for Technical personnel has become less Average hours of Studies which trains mechanics and electrical intense and we continue to see training and technicians: seven of the 2015 graduates joined results from our ongoing professional the Company as full-time employees.
university recruitment activities development per and employee retention employee Retention: We provide a stable labour environment, strategies.
strong corporate culture committed to our people, Number of contractor good working conditions, competitive benefits and Due to the metal price low personnel relative to career development opportunities.
In 2015, cycle, there are more unionised personnel Fresnillo plc was recognised by the Great Place to contractors available: however per business unit Work Institute, and it currently ranks 17th among they have also been affected companies with more than 5,000 employees.
by the current economic situation.
As a result it Contractors: We have long-term drilling and mining continues to be a challenge to contracts.
We invest significantly in training maintain the best available contractors, particularly on safety and contractor personnel.
We have supported the enrolment of 49 of our contractor companies in their integration into the Self-Management Programme on Safety and Health at Work PASST, promoted by the Mexican Secretariat of Labour and Social Welfare STPS.
46 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Environmental incidents Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Inherent to our industry is the risk of Our environmental management system ensures Low Sustainable environmental incidents such as overflow effective compliance with Mexican regulations, development Risk rating relative position collapse of tailing dams, cyanide spills and ensures transparency and supports initiatives that 2015: Low 11 dust emissions, among others, any of which reduce our environmental footprint.
The Group was 2014: Low 11 could have a high potential impact on our recognised with the GEI2 national award for the people, communities and business.
disclosure and auditing of its greenhouse gas inventory.
Additionally, we disclosed our performance in the water and climate change Key risk indicators programmes of the Carbon Disclosure Project.
See Environment pages 74 to 79 for more results on our Change in heat map: Number of business environmental strategy and indicators.
units BUs with ISO 14001:2004 At the beginning of December 2015, a minor certification incident occurred due to the rupture of a pipeline while non-toxic solution was being pumped from Description of risk change Number of BUs with the beneficiation plant to the tailings dam of Clean Industry Our environmental Saucito.
Authorities concluded that the situation certification management system, was of limited scale, and as a result operations environmental expenditures, Number of BUs with were not suspended.
The affected area was and training of personnel are International Cyanide completely cleaned and remediated.
In May 2015, key factors which reduce the Code certification Herradura experienced a partial collapse of a small risk of major preventable section of the embankment of a pond containing Number of incidents.
This failure was environmental quickly detected and contained with a dyke, and permits for all extra pumps were set up to speed up the transfer advanced exploration of the solution to the contingency pond.
The projects according to incident was reported to PROFEPA and schedule environmental monitoring since the incident shows no negative environmental effects.
All our mining units are certified under ISO 14001 and have Clean Industry certification except for Saucito, which advanced in the process of obtaining both to 90% and is expected to conclude in 2016.
The Herradura mine is certified in the International Cyanide Management Code while at Cinega the process is on hold, set to resume once expansion at the processing plant is complete.
Noche Buena launched its certification process in December 2015: this is expected to be concluded in 2016.
We rigorously adhere to the requirements established by each projects environmental permit Environmental Impact Manifest.
We also continue to support contractors in their efforts to integrate environmental management systems.
See Environment pages 7479 for more on our environment strategy.
