14 Principal risks Management of risk Identifying, evaluating and managing our principal risks and uncertainties isintegral to the way we do business.
Our policies and procedures enable us to identify, evaluate The risk register and associated mitigating actions are regularly andmanage risk.
We maintain risk registers at Group, divisional reviewed by the Risk Committee we established in the previous and business unit level that detail these risks, relate them to year.
It is chaired by the Group Finance Director and managed our objectives and rate them based on their likelihood and by the Director of Risk & Internal Audit.
We undertake an potential impact.
This determines how the risk is managed, annual review of market developments, Group strategy and theresponsibility for its management and how it is monitored.
projects secured in the context of our risk management TheBoard assesses the levels of residual risk.
processes, to ensure they adapt to changing requirements.
This, in co-ordination with the Boards review of internal controls , helps to ensure that our management ofrisk remains up-to-date and relevant.
Key risk areas, implications and mitigating actions Health, safety, environment and community Mitigation Maintaining high standards of health and safety, and mitigating Implementing our Health, Safety & Sustainability HS&S strategy, negative environmental and community impacts.
which is supported by comprehensive policies and frameworks.
Demonstrating our commitment to HS&S by having Board level Implication representation via the Chief Operating Officer.
Failings can cause harm to those on or around our sites and or have Driving the importance of HS&S through our behavioural safety an impact on our reputation, costs and management resource.
programme and back to basics initiative.
People Mitigation Developing, attracting and retaining the best people for the business Implementing our established HR strategy, based on best in order to maintain a high-performing, skilled and diverse workforce.
practice, Investors in People principles and relevant legislation.
Succession planning enables continuity and the ability to identify Implication future leaders.
Failure to do this could impact our overall leadership of the business Regularly reviewing remuneration and benefits packages and ability to deliver our planned strategy and business growth.
Supply chain Mitigation A financially stable, high-quality supply chain that allows us Monitoring construction progress against programme in order tosuccessfully deliver our projects on time and to budget.
toreplan reassess resources where applicable.
Selecting our supply chain for both materials and people carefully.
Implication Continuing to improve our supply chain by integrating their way Exposure to financial, reputational, technical, quality, and health of working with our internal processes and standards to drive and safety risks in the supply chain, as well as potential supplier improvement such as BS 11000. insolvency and materials shortage could cause delays and Reviewing profit margin and cash forecasting by contract additionalcosts.
toidentify any supply chain issues early.
For more information about our approach to these areas, see our sustainability section on page 32 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials 15 Key risk areas, implications and mitigating actions continued Macro environment Mitigation A stable economy has a positive impact on consumer confidence Closely monitoring government, industry and economic data in the housing market.
Demand for houses is critically affected by on housing prices, sales volumes and construction, together mortgage availability and interest costs.
The level of public sector with statistics on mortgage approvals, lending and interest spending governs demand for construction in the important public rateexpectations.
Anticipating market changes and having flexibility to adjust land acquisition plans, development and build programmes, sales Implication releases and purchaser incentives accordingly.
A weakening economy can undermine consumer confidence Adapting our approach to the sectors and clients where we see and hence demand for new houses: this will also be constrained the best opportunities.
by the threat of interest rate rises.
Reduced public spending Maintaining a strong balance sheet.
could impact regulated infrastructure projects and the availability ofprojectfinance.
Mitigation Markets Maintaining a landbank that balances plots with full planning The success of our Housebuilding and Construction businesses consent, outline consent and zoned for residential development relies on a combination of factors.
In Housebuilding some of these include the availability and price of land, how long it takes and strategic land held primarily under options to purchase to obtain planning permission and the availability of affordable inthefuture.
In Construction, some of these include the level Rigorous pre-acquisition site appraisal processes.
ofcommercial risk we accept in each contract and pricing in relation Robust approach to contract selection and terms, and carrying to this risk as well as having a suitable pipeline of work in place.
out further specific risk assessments for major projects.
Keeping apprised of market intelligence, monitoring order Implication book and pipeline, and undertaking business planning process Our Housebuilding business could be negatively impacted financially forecasts for market trends allowing us to match resources by a lack of available land, acquiring land at the wrong price, or toproject workloads.
underestimating development or project costs.
Our delivery could be affected by delays in the planning process or the availability of affordable housing funding.
In our Construction business potentially serious financial and allocation issues could result from us taking on too much risk, including credit and counterparty, pricing and technical ability to deliver: failing to secure contracts at a price and on terms that deliver an acceptable return on risk: and lack ofasuitable pipeline of opportunities.
Corporate Mitigation Our ability to achieve our 2018 growth strategy is contingent Funding is provided by equity and bank borrowings: our revolving onanumber of Group factors.
credit facility was extended to 2020 on improved terms and a new 100 million interest rate hedge was put in place ensuring Implication astable funding platform and improved visibility for the rest of Without access to sufficient financing, the ability to deliver projects thedecade.
on time and to budget, and meet our sustainability targets, as well Demonstrating our commitment to sustainability by having Board as being able to maintain a strong brand would be jeopardised, level representation via the Chief Operating Officer.
meaning we could be prevented from successfully executing Operating contingency and disaster recovery policies to mitigate any potential financial or reputational damage: these are tested ourCompany strategy.
and reviewed on a regular basis.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
