Risk management Governance Risk and Control GRC information system has been implemented and the previous AN INTEGRAL PART OF risk management system retired.
The board risk appetite has been included to enable comparison DAY-TO-DAY MANAGEMENT of reported residual risk against appetite.
Our aim is to gain a deep understanding of the principal risks What we will do in 2016 we face at all levels of the business and to focus management We are conducting a thorough attention on effective mitigation of the most critical risks.
review of all group mandated control standards.
These have been developed over many years and their clarity, Our risks What we did in 2015 consistency and focus can be The last year has continued to Our risks are captured in a global improved.
This will facilitate improved highlight the dynamic nature of the risk reporting information system.
understanding and compliance by markets in which G4S operates.
The These risks are reviewed formally operating unit management teams geo-political situation in the Middle at least annually by the operating of those controls which have the most East has continued to worsen, with companies and global functions.
The material impact on the management its tragic consequences now directly principal residual risks to the group of our key risks.
as a whole are discussed in depth by assessments on this revised control Economic recovery has strengthened the Group Executive Committee set will be conducted annually in developed markets, albeit unevenly.
The board Risk Committee bi-annually for financial controls by However the fall in the oil price and reviews the most significant risks on operating units using the GRC system.
the slowdowns in China and Brazil a regular basis, and the board reviews Audit programmes will be adjusted to have had negative impacts across regularly the overall impact of these match the revised control set.
Using developing markets, particularly in major risks on the groups activities.
GRC we will improve the quality of the extractive industries.
G4S also During 2015 the Regional Risk and reporting of compliance with group continues to face the operational Audit Committees have driven control standards and board risk and health and safety risks which improved risk management appetite.
This will facilitate focusing are particular to the security business, processes in the operating units, improvement efforts on those parts along with the financial control and monitoring the quality of risk of the business which most need it.
commercial risks common to all registers and the progress against multinational companies.
We believe that the progress made planned mitigating actions.
The new in driving risk management quality over the last two years allows us to Viability Statement now push more accountability for In accordance with provision C. 2.2 updating its rolling three year business, as well as the principal risk management to the operating of the UK Corporate Governance strategic plan and considering the residual risks.
Therefore in the coming Code 2014, the directors have risks to that plans achievement.
The vast majority of the groups year the Regional Risk and Audit assessed the viability of the group These plans were reviewed and risks exist at an individual country Committees will be focused on over a three year period, aligned refined by regional management level and are individually immaterial.
financial judgments and reporting with that of the groups rolling and then by the Group Executive The principal residual risks described on closure of external audit planning cycle, taking into account Committee before being reviewed on pages 48 to 54 are an aggregate the groups current position and endorsed by the board in management letter points and view of the approximately 1,500 and the potential impact of the December 2015.
The key internal audit findings.
However, individual risks captured in country, principal risks documented on assumptions in the financial regional and group functional risk given the nature of the business pages 48 to 54.
Planning beyond forecasts, reflecting the overall registers.
The individual risk in the UK the Risk and Audit three years is seen by the group strategy, include: assessments of likelihood and Committee in that region will as being of limited value due to: A continued demand for financial impact have been continue to cover the same detailed The vast majority of the groups security services, as set out aggregated to provide a range agenda as in 2015.
Enterprise risk contracts being for one year: on pages 14 to 15 of the of overall impacts from expected management will be embedded strategic report to pessimistic which have been The correlation of demand for used to inform the sensitivity more tightly into operating business security services with the very An ability to continue to analysis.
The most significant risks volatile global economy: and drive through our productivity unit management.
There will be a financially are growth strategy programmes and to flex the thorough annual review of the risk The impact of the groups and laws and regulations.
cost base as set out on pages ongoing transformation register as an integral part of the 24 to 26 The directors consider that this programme.
Updates stress-testing based assessment Continuing to improve The groups prospects are to risk levels and mitigating action of the groups prospects is the operating cashflow assessed primarily through its progress will be incorporated into reasonable in the circumstances performance of the group bottom up strategic planning cycle.
of the inherent uncertainty operating unit senior management as set out on pages 28 to 29 The overall strategy for the group involved.
Based on this assessment, meetings and trading reviews of was refreshed comprehensively in The output of this plan is used the directors have a reasonable countries by regional management.
November 2013 and the board as the baseline for stress testing expectation that the company will Regional level risks will be maintained has monitored progress closely covenant and headroom analysis.
be able to continue in operation against this strategy as well as It includes a review and sensitivity in the regional registers and and meet its liabilities as they fall the risks to its success.
The 2015 analysis to changes in trading reviewed during regional trading due over the three financial years process commenced in June with conditions affecting profit growth to 31 December 2018. reviews by group management.
each country and business unit and the capital needs of the 46 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE MODEL Board BOARD The board has ultimate responsibility for assuring risk management processes by reviewing the most critical risks and controls.
Board Risk Committee Board Audit Committee BOARD RISK BOARD AUDIT The board Risk Committee meets The board Audit Committee meets COMMITTEE COMMITTEE four times per year and sets the four times per year and ensures groups risk appetite, assesses the the groups control framework groups principal residual risks and is operating effectively.
assesses the overall enterprise risk management process.
Group Executive Committee Regional Risk and Audit Committees GROUP EXECUTIVE REGIONAL RISK AND The Group Executive Committee The Regional Risk and Audit COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEES considers the groups principal Committees are also attended by residual risks and the progress the external auditor and review: of mitigating actions.
GROUP AND REGIONAL ETHICS COMMITTEES 1. the progress of closing external and internal audit findings: and Group and Regional Ethics 2. quarterly financial control status Committees reports, balance sheet integrity, The committees are responsible and any accounting judgements.
for whistleblowing and investigations Each regional committee meets across the regions.
Operating companies and shared service functions OPERATING COMPANIES Our operating companies and shared service functions identify and assess We employ three lines of defence to control the risks to their business objectives and plan appropriate mitigating actions.
and manage risks across the group.
These are recorded in our group-wide risk management tool.
A thorough review is conducted as part of the annual planning process with updates made in senior management team meetings and trading reviews formally twice a year.
Control self-assessments against group control standards are completed annually bi-annually for financial control standards.
1ST LINE: BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT Responsibility for the first line sits with the managers of our businesses, whether line management or financial support.
The senior management team within each business is responsible for implementing and maintaining appropriate controls across their business.
Result: Ensures standards expected by the group, our customers and other stakeholders are met.
The second line consists of oversight functions at both regional and group 2ND LINE: CONTROL AND OVERSIGHT FUNCTIONS level including: risk, finance, legal, human resources, operations, information technology, commercial and CSR.
Result: Provides support to the business managers.
The third line is designed to detect or prevent unexpected outcomes and 3RD LINE: INTERNAL INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE comprises the internal audit function.
As part of its annual programme of work, internal audit conducts regular reviews of risk management processes and gives advice and recommendations on how to improve the control environment.
In addition, the Regional Risk and Audit Committees meet on a quarterly basis to monitor and review the effectiveness of the control environment and accounting judgements.
Result: Provides independent assurance over the design and operation of controls.
EXTERNAL AUDIT Financial risks, reporting and Audit Committee governance are considered as part of external audit.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 47 L A V O R P P A D I B T N K E S I M R S O S C A D E S O I N S S B - N U S G T R A R A O A N I C C N T E G Principal risks CONTRACT RISK MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE MODEL The board Risk Committee will Based on financial, legal, undertake a review of a major reputational and operational risk contract at each of its meetings.
Referred to the region, group or board as appropriate for review and approval.
Internal audit conducts audits Bids customer value of selected contracts.
propositions, commercial terms and risk mitigation strategies are challenged.
Expected risk return is assessed before approval is given or withheld.
Contracts subject to on-going Key contractual requirements and scrutiny at regional or group risk mitigation strategies, based level based on commercial on complexity and risk profile scale and level of risk.
of mobilisation, are mapped to accountable contract managers.
appetite to growing and transforming There are many opportunities to What are the key risks the business when we have the improve productivity as discussed faced by G4S?
expertise to deliver and achieve on pages 24 to 26 and set ambitious Countries reviewed their risks and a good commercial return on programmes of change and updated their plans as part of the the risk we are accepting from improvement.
However in delivering strategic planning process in 2015. our customers.
this agenda of change and growth These were then considered at we need to effectively manage the a regional level before group risk There are many opportunities risks we are taking on: management and the office of for growth and as discussed on the CFO consolidated them and page 21, there are many actions By assessing the risks of major identified common themes and to drive the growth agenda through: contracts thoroughly: applying the regional risks which were material best resources and our expertise: Sales and business development to the group.
The GEC and board and hence putting in place capability also discussed the groups key risks mitigation strategies which as part of the annual strategy review Sales performance measures will control the risks to a process.
These bottom up and top in all businesses to drive growth, commercially acceptable level: down perspectives on risk are used customer retention and customer By applying commercial and financial by the responsible members of the satisfaction discipline and controls to manage GEC, supported by the group risk Customer engagement our growth opportunities: and function, to formulate the groups and retention By applying effective programme principal residual risks.
The boards Implementation of a standard tool and project management to our Risk Committee approved them in to manage customer satisfaction change agenda.
The groups principal Global account management residual risks must be considered in the context of the boards risk Industry sector specialists such appetite, which can be summarised as Oil and Gas as follows: New service development G4S operates in high risk areas and innovation of business in which our core Pricing policy and management competence and value add to and the roll-out of Salesforce.
com customers is managing those risks globally effectively.
We have a higher risk 48 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 M C O O B I N L I T S R K E A S A T E I I C T R O T T N I D M R M A O O C B L A N R E T T I N D I U P A U O R G Strategic report HEALTH AND SAFETY H&S cultures.
The group has mandatory improvement actions which they Risk description The provision of security services health and safety controls which committed to.
Unfortunately, this all companies are required to progress has not yet been evident in hostile or dangerous circumstances presents particular health and safety implement.
Mandatory health and in a reduction in the number of fatalities.
The business operates safety training for senior leaders, a large vehicle fleet in a number focusing on safety leadership and of countries with poor road culture, has been completed by Mitigation priorities for 2016 infrastructures, increasing the risk more than 1,000 managers.
Lessons We will continue to drive behavioural of road traffic incidents.
In 2015, 46 learned during the investigation of change so that people take personal 2014: 41 employees lost their lives serious incidents are communicated responsibility for role modelling in work related incidents.
Fatalities in Safety First bulletins and are used good health and safety behaviours and injuries to our staff impact not to revise the groups health and and for ensuring compliance with only the individuals concerned, but safety standards to better address operational procedures.
We will also their families and loved ones.
the risks that led to these incidents.
be embedding best practices, A road safety policy is issued to all standards and behaviours at businesses, a number of which also supervisory levels, and conducting Risk mitigation approach The protection of our staff, people run local programmes on topics safety stand downs after each such as speed management and major incident.
We will conduct in our care or custody, and third parties including the public, is of motorcycle safety.
As part of our interventions to support selected continuing programme of detailed businesses in delivering improved utmost importance.
We believe that accidents are preventable and that assessments of H&S practices in health and safety performance.
a number of high-risk countries, zero fatalities is an appropriate goal.
We are committed to continuous follow-up reviews were conducted improvement of our health and in order to derive assurance that safety systems, processes and businesses have implemented the CULTURE AND VALUES in training, displayed very publically Risk description Mitigation priorities for 2016 in our offices around the world and G4S provides security to people, Our revised corporate values will reflected in management performance premises and valuable assets.
In its be re-launched to the organisation contracts.
During 2015 we conducted care and justice services businesses and our stakeholders.
This will a review of these values, recognising it also provides services to detainees, be supported by an employee that they were originally developed victims of crime, people needing state engagement programme to ensure in 2004.
Whilst many elements of assistance, vulnerable people and they are embedded in our core the original values remain relevant other members of the public.
This processes for selecting, hiring, to our business strategy today, we requires our staff to conduct on-boarding, training and development believe that they now better reflect themselves with the utmost integrity.
of our colleagues around the world.
Link to the standards we expect from our We operate in many different They will also be a key element of strategic staff and the commitments we make countries around the world with a how we assess the performance of priorities to our stakeholders.
More information diversity of local and national cultures.
our leaders and the basis on which on our new values can be found on Having a strong set of corporate our other corporate policies and page 17. values that unite the organisation, standards will develop.
People & value deeply embedded in our culture, We have a global whistleblowing In the UK & Ireland business is of particular importance.
process and central whistleblowing we have a strong focus on the Growth case management system in place If we fail to behave in accordance awareness of our corporate values with the high standards that we set which provides us with visibility of and the whistleblowing process whistleblowing issues and helps us ourselves there is a risk that we will in prisons and other secure Innovation not deliver on our commitment to to assess trends and root causes.
Members of our We have ethics steering groups customers, and fail to comply with Group Executive Committee are legislation and international standards.
at group level and in each region undertaking a programme of visits Service which oversee the whistleblowing to these locations to help ensure excellence investigation process and provide this is embedded successfully.
Risk mitigation approach guidance to countries on The group has a strong set of Operational ethical matters.
corporate values which are embedded excellence Financial discipline Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 49 Principal risks continued PEOPLE group human resources, to mitigate The employee survey and Risk description We are the largest employer listed the risk as much as possible.
country risk registers have both shown improvement in overall on the London Stock Exchange, In 2015, we undertook our fourth employing 610,000 people employee engagement.
global employee engagement world-wide, and the largest security survey.
449,000 employees solutions provider in the world.
In Mitigation priorities for 2016 responded, approximately 73% a global and diverse business such Following feedback from the of the workforce.
The survey data as ours, there are risks associated management survey in 2015 a helps shape our group-wide human with recruiting, motivating, developing review of incentives took place.
resources and engagement strategies, and training employees on a large They will continue to be scrutinised as well as providing our management scale, as well as rewarding to ensure they are driving sustainable and supervisors at a local level with appropriately and retaining our performance and the link between information on key issues impacting critical talent and ensuring effective individual contribution and reward employee engagement levels.
Other feedback in the Information regarding the outcomes Screening is also a particular survey related to opportunities for of our engagement survey can be challenge in some territories which career development.
Further modules found in the People and Values lack supporting infrastructure will be added to the regional section of this report on page 18. from the relevant authorities.
leadership programme and some We review in detail the of the programme materials will be performance and potential of made more widely available to other Risk mitigation approach approximately 3,000 managers The group has mandatory human managers who wish to make use of across the group to help identify them to support their long term resources controls which all development needs and build countries are required to implement.
We also run a In those territories where local regional leadership programme circumstances make it impossible to nurture talented individuals early to fully comply with the screening in their careers and develop them and vetting elements, we identify into more senior roles as they alternative measures, approved by move through the organisation.
BRAND AND REPUTATION Risk description Risk mitigation approach Mitigation priorities for 2016 We provide our customers across The mitigation approach described We will continue to focus on the world a wide range of high under the culture and values risk building colleagues sense of quality, well controlled services.
and others play an important responsibility to report issues, and Nevertheless the nature of the part in maintaining our reputation.
ensuring they feel confident and groups activities means that we can Additionally, our human rights safe that they can raise concerns face high inherent reputational risks framework is embedded in key that will be taken seriously and related to the countries in which systems and business decisiontreated positively.
We are reLink to we operate, the services which we making processes across the group, launching and further embedding strategic provide, the customers and suppliers such as evaluating new market our values, clarifying the expected priorities with which we work, the people in entries, analysing the risks of behaviours of our people.
We are our care and our interactions with entering into major new contracts developing and implementing a members of the public with whom or operational areas.
We have a political risk management process.
People & value our colleagues come into contact.
central media relations team which Human rights will continue to form actively engages with commentators an important part of our risk When we fail to meet either our and critics.
assessment and mitigation process, Growth own standards or the expectations with the implementation of a new of our key stakeholders there is the The serious events at the Medway control-self assessment for businesses potential for negative impact upon facility have put G4S in the public operating in high risk countries.
Innovation our customers, suppliers, the people eye, increasing our reputational risk.
in our care or the communities in which we work.
This adverse Service impact on our key stakeholders excellence is likely to lead to damage to the See the 2015 CSR report for groups reputation.
Operational excellence Financial discipline 50 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report MAJOR CONTRACTS taking on new contracts which will Risk description Risk mitigation approach The group has a number of long We have strict thresholds for the become materially onerous.
term, complex, high value contracts approval of major bids involving with multi-national, government both detailed legal review and Mitigation priorities for 2016 or other strategic customers.
We will continue to enhance the such contracts there are risks to These are embedded into our contract pre-signing review process, the group accepting onerous SalesForce opportunity management taking account of lessons learned contractual terms: mobilising tool.
When appropriate we conduct from any underperforming contracts: transitioning effectively external reviews of bid models.
An increased proportion from mobilisation to on-going For our most significant running of group internal audit reviews in contract management: delivering to contracts, primarily in the UK, we the UK business will focus on contractual requirements: managing perform 360 reviews of all aspects major contracts.
complex billing arrangements: of contract management and managing contract change control: performance.
Internal Audit perform and managing sub-contractors.
focused contract audits of the most Failure to ensure effective contract complex contracts.
We have also take-on, mobilise successfully continued to perform a quarterly and manage complex contracts financial review of the top 25 effectively throughout their lifecycles contracts in each region.
can impact the groups liabilities, We believe that the improvements customer satisfaction, reputation, we have made to controls in this revenue, cash flow, growth area over the last two years have and profitability.
significantly reduced the risk of DELIVERY OF CORE SERVICE LINES change such as extreme weather Risk description news and corporate information, or mass migration, control systems, and enable our people to share best We deliver our core secure and the availability of critical systems, practice and interact with colleagues solutions services in 84 markets facilities and people to perform from around the globe, in innovative and our core cash solutions services contractually agreed services.
A number of these businesses have been acquired over This can lead to financial penalties, Mitigation priorities for 2016 time, resulting in cultural differences, and negatively impact customer We have initiated a programme to varying degrees of operational retention and goodwill, to the deliver a global information system maturity and a multiplicity of detriment of financial performance.
supporting the end to end Order to information systems.
Cash process in our secure solutions Risk mitigation approach This can create risks around core service lines.
This will be based on G4S has a set of global best practice operational service delivery and commercial best practice for finance service delivery guidelines for both supporting functions.
Failure to meet and HR and G4S best practice for secure solutions and cash service the service delivery requirements operational delivery.
It is the responsibility of of our customers, because we have will be piloted initially in our UK & regional management to work not implemented the right solutions Ireland businesses and then be with countries to progressively or followed appropriate agreed rolled out globally over a number adopt these standards.
Risks to procedures, can create risks around of years.
This will seek to transform resilience arising from climate cash losses, attacks on our staff, our cost structure, strengthen our change are considered on an subcontractors or third parties and control environment and provide a on-going basis by relevant country the non-delivery of the service level platform for embedding our service management teams.
A new intranet agreements and KPIs agreed with delivery standards globally, thus has been launched in early 2016, our customers.
transforming the quality of our bringing together 65,000 users in customers experience.
Additional risks relate to business G4S worldwide.
This gives all of our resilience, including from climate intranet users common access to Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 51 Principal risks continued LAWS AND REGULATIONS Risk description Risk mitigation approach Mitigation priorities for 2016 G4S operates in many jurisdictions Our internal policies and procedures We will be implementing a process globally, with complex and diverse clearly set out that most of these for political risk management to regulatory frameworks.
An risks, including compliance with local ensure that we are monitoring additional complexity arises from laws and regulations, are the direct regulatory and other emerging the extraterritorial reach of some responsibility of local management.
political risks within our key markets.
of the legislation to which the Ethics steering groups at group and This process will be supported group is subject.
regional level are in place to provide by a programme to enhance oversight and support compliance our engagement with regulators, Risks include increasing litigation with the internal policies and politicians and political influencers and class actions: bribery and procedures to mitigate the risks.
corruption: obtaining operating Specifically, whilst ownership of licences: complying with local tax implementing anti-bribery and regulations: changes to employment corruption policies lies with the legislation: complying with human business managing directors, our rights legislation: and new or legal community has compliance changed restrictions on foreign oversight with a direct escalation ownership.
Risk also arises from route to the group legal counsel.
new or changing regulations which require modification of Group legal and regional leadership our processes and staff training.
closely monitor risks of changes in foreign ownership laws and make Not being compliant with applicable appropriate plans to respond.
G4S laws and regulations can have far continues to liaise with relevant reaching consequences, including governments and authorities to higher costs from claims and influence positively the regulatory litigation: inability to operate in environments in which we work.
certain jurisdictions, either through direct ownership or joint ventures: loss of management control: damage to our reputation: and loss of customer confidence.
GROWTH STRATEGY we are able to serve and by Risk description Risk mitigation approach Our growth strategy is to leverage Our development of new service leveraging our portfolio of products to offer alternative cost efficient our expertise to drive innovation in offerings, particularly in electronic our core service lines which delivers security and cash solutions, is solutions to those industries with a requirement to adjust their more value to our customers and focused on those centres of Link to so increases long-term customer excellence where we have the investments in security.
We then priorities leverage our global networks Mitigation priorities for 2016 There are risks that we will fail to offer these services globally.
We continue to invest in and to create higher value solutions In particular, our global accounts develop our sales and business that differentiate us from local People & value programme supports and promotes development systems and commoditised competitors: that our multinational accounts and capabilities.
We are placing a we will lose contracts or growth focuses on cross-selling our more renewed focus on customer opportunities through price Growth specialist services such as investigations satisfaction monitoring to improve competition and market changes: and secure logistics.
Our outbound measurement of our engagement that we fail to enter target markets programme works with Chinese with our clients and therefore Innovation successfully: that we become and North American multinational making us more effective in driving over-reliant on large customers: customers to provide services to stronger customer relationships.
We and that adverse government them on a global scale.
We have are further developing our customer Service legislation changes could impact seen a deceleration in growth relationship management tools to excellence on our growth potential or force opportunities in developing markets, embed core measurement and exit from markets and territories.
which we mitigate through the reporting of our service level diversity of industries and markets Operational agreements and key performance excellence indicators with customers.
Financial discipline 52 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report GEO-POLITICAL attacks such as those in Paris in agents: conduct early risk Risk description We operate in many countries November 2015 or Jakarta in assessments before and during January 2016, continued seizure of security assignments: have robust across the developed and developing world, with wide-ranging territory by Islamic State, tensions in operating procedures: and work Ukraine and Yemen and the potential closely with our local and global government and political systems, differing cultural landscapes, and increase in political instability and the customers in managing the risks of risk of civil unrest in parts of Africa operating in such environments.
Our varying degrees of rule of law: and within conflict and post-conflict and Latin America.
Given the wide G4S Risk Management business has range of countries in which the particular expertise in providing zones.
The risk factors range from political volatility, revolution, group operates there will always secure solutions in very high risk, be some with a degree of serious low infrastructure environments.
terrorism, military intervention and insurgency.
The geo-political risks political instability.
We have a global process for assessing the geopolitical we face impact us in many ways: the Mitigation priorities for 2016 health and safety of our staff and risks of different countries which We will be implementing a process determines the types of customers customers: the continued operation for political risk management to of our businesses: and the ability we will serve and the types of enhance our monitoring of services we will provide.
to secure our assets and recover emerging political risks within our profits.
We have a great deal of experience of operating in a wide range of Risk mitigation approach difficult territories.
We collaborate We perceive the external threat with our local partners and or to have increased, given terrorist INFORMATION SECURITY and disruption to service delivery Google Apps, covering around Risk description 65,000 employees.
This gives us The customers, staff, suppliers and and integrity, particularly in cash solutions operations.
improved controls and security of partners of G4S which entrust their email and corporate documents.
sensitive and confidential business information into our care rightly Risk mitigation approach expect that we take all reasonable Mitigation priorities for 2016 G4S has implemented defence-insteps to protect it.
We continue to protect our depth technologies i. e. multiple corporate information in line with layers of defence in key systems Given G4S high profile, we are at recognised best practice, and select to protect business information risk of cyber and physical attack by the appropriate security enforcing entrusted to us.
We have mandatory criminal organisations and individual controls required in each of our policies and best practice guidance hackers.
There is also the risk that information systems.
Our mitigations for application by operating an individual with legitimate access reflect the G4S IT strategies, local businesses across the group.
Our to business information could operating conditions and the minimum mandatory security disclose it inappropriately, or that corporate risk appetite.
controls are continually refined and an insider could disrupt availability updated in line with our assessment of key systems.
Compliance with the An information security breach controls is measured through could result in: censure and fines self-assessment and independently by national governments: loss of audited by group internal audit.
confidence in the G4S brand and reputation: specific loss of trust In early 2016, G4S migrated successfully all its businesses to by customers, especially those in government and financial sectors: one unified office productivity suite, Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 53 Principal risks continued Link to CASH LOSSES strategic priorities Cash losses can have a major impact We also have clearly defined Risk description We have cash solutions businesses for our customers and G4S in standards for physical cash security.
spread across the world responsible respect of loss of profit, increased The group cash security function is People & value for cash held on behalf of our cost of insurance and health and responsible for monitoring compliance customers.
We provide cash safety considerations for our staff with these: for monitoring attacks transportation from one site to and the public.
and other cash losses: and for Growth another in high security vehicles, a communicating lessons learned.
range of cash management services Innovative security defence products Risk mitigation approach including secure storage, counting, are in use, ranging from cash box We have clearly defined standards Innovation reconciliation and sorting of notes tracking to vehicle protection foam for reconciliation and operational for ATMs: a range of ATM services: and protective boxes.
The group internal and secure storage and international Service audit cash reconciliation team is transportation of cash and valuables.
excellence responsible for auditing compliance Mitigation priorities for 2016 with these standards.
An e-learning We will be rolling out the e-learning There are inherent risks in this academy for cash reconciliation academy as a vehicle for driving business related to external attacks, Operational and control, has been developed continuous improvement in internal theft and poor cash excellence reconciliation.
Financial discipline 54 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015
