Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management is one of the key responsibilities of the Board and its Audit and HSEC Committees.
Our principal risks and uncertainties whether under our control or not are highly dynamic and our assessment and our responses to them are critical to our future business and prospects.
Our risk management framework identifies and manages adverse health, safety, environmental, community effects risk in a way that is supportive of our strategic priorities orotherwise and reputation.
ofopportunistically deploying capital, while protecting The natural diversification of our portfolio of commodities, ourfuture financial security and flexibility.
Our approach geographies, currencies, assets and liabilities is a source towards risk management is framed by the ongoing challenge ofmitigation for many of the risks we face.
In addition, of our understanding of the risks that we are exposed to, through our governance processes as noted previously and our risk appetite and how these risks change over time.
our proactive management approach we seek to mitigate, The Board assesses and approves our overall risk appetite, where possible, the impacts of certain risks should they monitors our risk exposure and sets the Group-wide limits, materialise.
In particular: which are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
This process is our liquidity risk management policy requires us to supported bythe Audit and HSEC Committees, whose roles maintain via a $3 billion minimum prescribed level include evaluating and monitoring the risks inherent in sufficient cashand cash equivalents and other sources of their respective areas as described on pages 85 to 88. committed funding available to meet anticipated and Our current assessment of our risks, according to exposure unanticipated funding needs: and impact, is detailed on the following pages.
In compiling making use of credit enhancement products, such as this assessment we have indicated the impact of these risks letters of credit, insurance policies and bank guarantees incomparison with a year ago in the table below.
and imposing limits on open accounts extended: The commentary on the risks in this section should be read our management of marketing risk, including daily in conjunction with a commentary under Understanding the analysis of Group value at risk VaR : and information on risks which is set out on the next page.
adhering to the principles encapsulated in the To the extent that any of these risks are realised, they may GlencoreCorporate Practice GCP programme.
affect, among other matters: our current and future business and prospects, financial position, liquidity, asset values, growth potential, sustainable development whether as to 2015 developments and overview of principal risks and uncertainties Reductions in commodity prices Health, safety, environment, including potential catastrophes Fluctuations in supply of or demand for commodities Liquidity risk Fluctuations in currency exchange rates Emissions and climate change Laws, enforcement, permits and licences to operate Counterparty credit and performance Geopolitical risk Community relations Sourcing, freight, storage infrastructure and logistics Development and operating risks and hazards Cost control Employees Key Risk impact Low Medium High Risk exposure Increase Decrease Static 28 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information In response to the above financial challenges, capital 2015 developments The significant falls in commodity prices experienced expenditure programmes were cut significantly, working during 2015 and the pessimistic medium-term outlook capital is being managed down, certain loss-making ofmany commodity market commentators make this operations were shut, some profitable production was theGroups foremost risk.
The price declines in our suspended, non-core precious metal reserves were commodities generally, andespecially copper and coal, have monetised, anda $2.5 billion equity placement was been a severe drag on our financial performance andhave implemented.
The Company is also seeking to take further led to concerns byexternal stakeholders as to the strength initiatives than were announced in its September debt ofthe Groups balance sheet.
reduction programme in order to achieve higher credit The reductions in commodity prices reflect the actual, ratingsthan it has currently.
perceived or prospective increases in supply of commodities The tailings dam collapses in Canada and Brazil and the and or reductions in demand.
Turkish coal mine disaster experienced in the last two years The general appreciation of the US dollar during 2015, byothermining companies are reminders of major particularly against the currencies of emerging and catastrophes that represent significant unquantifiable commodity producing countries, has contributed to risksfor resources companies and asa result this remains commodity price fluctuations.
Although the strength aleading topic subject to challenge andmonitoring.
oftheUS dollar is generally beneficial to our operating costs, thisgain is more than outweighed by disruption in During 2015, the HSECCommittee sponsored the launch ofa theworld economy and substantial falls in new sustainability risks assurance process.
Its initial focus commodity prices.
hasbeen on the Groupscatastrophic hazards.
Understanding the information on risks There are many risks and uncertainties which have the Mostly this entails emphasising certain risks more potential to significantly impact our business, including stronglythan other risks rather than the elimination of, competitive, economic, political, legal, regulatory, social, orcreation of, risks.
To understand the changes in outlook business and financial risk.
The order in which these risks and for more detail on certain risks, our previous annual anduncertainties appear does not necessarily reflect the reports are on our website at: www.
com likelihood of their occurrence or the relative magnitude investors reports-and-results reports oftheir potential material adverse effect on our business.
We have sought to provide examples of specific risks.
To provide for concise text: However, in every case these do not attempt to be an where we hold minority interests in certain businesses, exhaustive list.
These principal risks and uncertainties should although these entities are not generally subsidiaries, be considered in connection with any forward looking theinterests are mostly taken as being referred to in statements in this document as explained on page 202. analysing these risks, and business refers to these Identifying, quantifying and managing risk is complex andany business of the Group: and challenging.
Although it is our policy and practice where we refer to natural hazards, events of nature toidentify and, where appropriate and practical, actively orsimilar phraseology we are referring to matters manage such risks to support objectives in managing suchas earthquake, flood, severe weather and other capital and future financial security and flexibility, our natural phenomena: policies and procedures may not adequately identify, in each case our mitigation of risks will include the monitor and quantify all risks.
taking out of insurance where it is customary and The comments below describe our attempts to manage, economic to do so: balance or offset risk.
Risk is, however, by its very nature risks include uncertainties: uncertain and inevitably events may lead to our policies and procedures not having a material mitigating effect laws include regulations of any type: onthe negative impacts of the occurrence of a particular a reference to a note is a note to the 2015 financial event.
Since many risks are connected, our analysis should statements: and be read against all risks to which it may be relevant.
we have referred to our 2015 Sustainability Report In this section, we have sought to update our explanations, whichwill be published in April 2016. reflecting our current outlook.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 29 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Comments External Reductions in commodity prices The revenue and earnings of substantial parts of our industrial The significant falls in prices experienced during 2015 and activities and, to a lesser extent, our marketing activities, are thepessimistic medium-term outlook of many commodity dependent upon prevailing commodity prices.
Commodity market commentators make this the Groups foremost risk.
prices are influenced by a number of external factors, including Thecontinued price declines in our commodities generally, the supply of and demand for commodities, speculative andespecially copper and coal, have been a severe drag on activities by market participants, global political and economic ourfinancial performance and have led to material concerns conditions, related industry cycles and production costs in asto theGroups indebtedness levels.
The Group is implementing a significant programme A significant downturn in the price of commodities generally of activities in response, as summarised on the previous page.
results in a decline in our profitability and could potentially See the Chief Executive Officers review on page 4 and the result in impairment and balance sheet constraints.
It is financial review on pages 36 - 41. especially harmful to profitability in the industrial activities, Details of the significant impairments recorded during the year which are more directly exposed to price risk due to the higher are contained in note 5.
The valuations used for this analysis level of fixed costs, while our marketing activities are ordinarily remain sensitive to price and further deterioration in the price substantially hedged in respect of price risk and principally outlook may result in additional impairments.
Against the backdrop of these fluctuations, as we would expect, there were no breaches during 2015 of our $100 million Group VaR limit pertaining to our marketing activities see page 83.
Fluctuations in the supply of, or demand for, thecommodities in which we operate We are dependent on the expected volumes of supply or This risk is currently prevalent, with demand growth demand for commodities in which we are active, which can uncertainty in various commodities we produce and market, vary for many reasons, such as competitor supply policies, notably within steel, coal and oil markets.
changes in resource availability, government policies and See the Chief Executive Officers review on page 4. regulation, costs of production, global and regional economic conditions and events of nature.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates The vast majority of our transactions are denominated in This risk is currently prevalent in our industry.
However, USdollars, while operating costs are spread across many thesefluctuations tend to move in symmetry with those in different countries, the currencies of which fluctuate against commodity prices and supply and demand fundamentals theUS dollar.
A depreciation in the value of the US dollar asnoted above, such that decreases in commodity prices are against one or more of these currencies will result in an increase generally associated with increases in the US dollar relative in the cost base of the relevant operations in US dollar terms.
tolocal producer currencies and vice versa.
Consequently, the current relative strength of the US dollar has been beneficial to The main currency exchange rate exposure is through our us through lower equivalent US dollar operating costs at many industrial assets, as a large proportion of the costs incurred by ofour operations.
This positive, however, has been more than these operations is denominated in the currency of the country offset by the disruption to the world economy and in which each asset is located.
The largest of these exposures thesubstantial falls in commodity prices described above.
isto the currencies listed on page 44.
Geopolitical risk We operate and own assets in a large number of geographic During 2015, we were subject to significant changes in fiscal regions and countries, some of which are categorised as policy from countries in South America, Africa and Asia Pacific developing, complex or having unstable political or social and we expect this trend to continue in 2016 as the global climates.
As a result, we are exposed to a wide range of geopolitical climate continues to evolve, partly affected by falls political, economic, regulatory and tax environments.
or laws in these countries may change in a manner that may Risks can also arise from the announcement and or beadverse for us.
Also, some countries with more stable implementation of reductions in workforces and temporary or political environments may nevertheless change policies permanent production stoppages.
andlaws in a manner adverse to us.
We have no control over See map on pages 8 and 9 that sets out our global changes to policies, laws and taxes.
The geopolitical risks associated with operating in a large number of regions and countries, if realised, could affect our ability to manage or retain interests in our industrial activities.
30 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Risk Comments Laws, enforcement, permits and licences to operate We are exposed to and subject to extensive laws including We are committed to complying with or exceeding the laws thoserelating to bribery and corruption, taxation, anti-trust, and external requirements applicable to our operations and financial markets regulation, management of natural resources, products.
Through this and monitoring of legislative licences over resources owned by various governments, requirements, engagement with government and regulators, exploration, production and post-closure reclamation.
and compliance with applicable permits and licences, we strive The terms attaching to any permit or licence to operate may to ensure full compliance.
We also seek to manage these risks also be onerous.
Furthermore, in certain countries title to land through the Glencore Corporate Practice GCP programme.
and rights andpermits in respect of resources are not always Its practical application across our business is detailed in our clear or may be challenged.
com who-we-are corporategovernance policies code-of-conduct and this framework The legal system and dispute resolution mechanisms in isreflected in our Sustainability Reports.
The Groups antisome countries may be uncertain so that we may be unable corruption policy may also be found at: www.
com toenforce our understanding of our title, permits or other who-we-are corporate-governance policies global-antirights.
Lawsuits may be brought, based upon damage resulting corruption-policy.
from past and current operations, and could lead to the imposition of substantial sanctions, the cessation of operations, The Group is currently evaluating the impact of proposed compensation and remedial and or preventative orders.
regulations to govern commodity market participants Moreover, the costs associated with legal compliance, including principally MiFID 2 in Europe.
Any changes to these laws New and proposed further changes to the rules of the London or their more stringent enforcement or restrictive interpretation Metal Exchange LME have contributed to significant could cause additional material expenditure to be incurred reductions in premiums in LME aluminium prices and including in our marketing business or impose suspensions of indirectly to a $119 million goodwill impairment of our operations and delays in the development of industrial assets.
Pacorini metals warehousing business - see page 134 and notes Failure to obtain or renew a necessary permit could mean that 5 and 9. we would be unable to proceed with the development or continued operation of an asset.
A dispute relating to an industrial asset could disrupt or delay relevant extraction, processing or other projects and or impede our ability to develop new industrial properties.
Liquidity risk Our failure to access funds liquidity would severely limit our Note 25 details our financial and capital risk ability to engage in desired activities.
Liquidity risk is the risk that we are unable to meet our payment During 2015, the Group had been subject to considerable obligations when due, or are unable, on an ongoing basis, to marketspeculation as to its medium-term funding position.
borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis Glencore Funding Factsheet, a summary of the Groups financing at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments.
arrangements is available at: www.
com assets While we adjust our minimum internal liquidity threshold investors doc debt-investor  time to time in response to changes in market conditions, .
this minimum internal liquidity target may be breached due to As at 31 December 2015, the Group had available undrawn circumstances we are unable to control, such as general market committed credit facilities and cash amounting to $15.2 billion disruptions, sharp movements in commodity prices or an 31 December 2014: $9.4 billion, comfortably ahead of our operational problem that affects our suppliers, customers $3 billion minimum prescribed level.
Standard & Poors and Moodys have both reduced the A lack of liquidity may mean that we will not have funds Companys investment grade credit rating by one notch to available to maintain or increase marketing and industrial BBBstable and Baa3 stable respectively.
activities, both of which employ substantial amounts of capital.
If we do not have funds available to sustain or develop our marketing and industrial activities then these activities will decrease.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 31 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Comments Business activities Counterparty credit and performance Financial assets consisting principally of marketable securities, We monitor the credit quality of our counterparties and seek receivables and advances, derivative instruments and long-term toreduce the risk of customer non-performance by requiring advances and loans can expose us to concentrations of credit risk.
credit support from creditworthy financial institutions including making extensive use of credit enhancement Furthermore, we are subject to non-performance risk by our products, such as letters of credit, insurance policies and suppliers, customers and hedging counterparties, in particular bankguarantees.
Specific credit risk policy rules apply to open via our marketing activities.
account risk with an established threshold for referral of credit Non-performance by suppliers, customers and hedging positions by departments to central management.
In addition, counterparties may occur and cause losses in a range of note 25 details our financial and capital risk situations, such as: management approach.
a significant increase in commodity prices resulting in suppliers being unwilling to honour their contractual commitments to sell commodities at pre-agreed prices: a significant reduction in commodity prices resulting incustomers being unwilling or unable to honour their contractual commitments to purchase commodities at pre-agreed prices: and suppliers subject to prepayment or hedging counterparties may find themselves unable to honour theircontractual obligations due to financial distress orother reasons.
Sourcing, freight, storage, infrastructure and logistics Our marketing activities require access to significant amounts Our global network of infrastructure and logistics operations of third party supplies of commodities, freight, storage, such as vessels, oil terminals and tank farms, metals and other infrastructure and logistics support and we are exposed to warehouses and grain silos assists in mitigating risks related reduced accessibility and or increased pressure in the costs todisruptions to or limitations of sourcing, freight, storage, ofthese.
In addition, we often compete with other producers, infrastructure and logistics.
purchasers or marketers of commodities or other products See map on pages 8 and 9 that sets out our global forlimited storage and berthing facilities at ports and freight operational footprint.
terminals, which can result in delays in loading or unloading of products and expose us to significant delivery interruptions.
Increases in the costs of freight, storage, infrastructure andlogistics support, or limitations or interruptions in the supply chain including any disruptions, refusals or inabilities to supply, could adversely affect our business.
32 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Risk Comments Development and operating risks and hazards Our industrial activities are subject to numerous risks and Development and operating risks and hazards are managed hazards normally associated with the initiation, development, through our continuous development status evaluation and operation and or expansion of natural resource projects, many reporting processes and ongoing assessment, reporting of which are beyond our control.
These include unanticipated andcommunication of the risks that affect our operations variations in grade and other geological problems so that throughthe annual risk review processes and updates to the anticipated or stated reserves, resources or mineralised risk register.
potential may not conform to expectations and in particular We publish quarterly our production results and annually may not reflect the reserves and resources which the Group ourassessment of reserves and resources based on available reports and as a result the anticipated volumes or grades may drilling and other data sources.
Other examples include seismic activity, Production at Koniambo Nickel was partially suspended natural hazards, processing problems, technical and IT during 2015 following detection of a metal leak at the malfunctions, unavailability of materials and equipment, metallurgical plant.
unreliability and or constraints of infrastructure, industrial In 2015, the ongoing technical challenges of processing oxide accidents, labour force insufficiencies, disruptions and disputes, concentrates at our Katanga operation led us tocommission a disasters, protests, force majeure factors, cost overruns, delays in whole ore leaching process, similar to that already operating permitting or other regulatory matters, vandalism and crime.
Cyber crime can also have materially adverse consequences forour marketing and industrial businesses - see also page 34.
Availability of continuous high-voltage power continues tobeof critical importance to our copper operations in the The development and operating of assets may lead to future Democratic Republic of Congo.
We are continuing to invest upward revisions in estimated costs, completion delays, cost inlong-term power solutions via the Inga dam refurbishment.
overruns, suspension of current projects or other operational difficulties.
Risks and hazards could result in damage to, At both Katanga and Mopani, we have taken advantage of a ordestruction of, properties or production facilities, may cause lower-price copper environment to focus on the whole ore production to be reduced or to cease at those properties or leaching project Katanga and the Synclinorium and Mopani production facilities, may result in a decrease in the quality Deeps projects Mopani via suspension or reduction of certain ofthe products, personal injury or death, third party damage processing operations.
or loss, and may result in actual production differing from During 2015, the Board received and discussed a presentation estimates of production.
on cyber security from the Group Head of IT.
Natural hazards, sabotage or other interference in operations, See also page 34 for our assessment of and programmes to could increase costs or delay supplies.
In some locations poor mitigate our health, safety and environmental risks and in quality infrastructure is endemic.
The realisation of these particular catastrophic risks.
development and operating risks and hazards could require significant and additional capital and operating expenditures to fund abatement, restoration or compensation to third parties for any loss and or payment of fines or damages.
Cost control As commodity prices are outside of our control, the In the current challenging lower-margin environment, there is competitiveness and sustainable long-term profitability of our notably a greater emphasis on the need to reduce costs and or industrial asset portfolio depends significantly on our ability curtail activities.
toclosely manage costs and maintain a broad spectrum Maintaining costs and, where possible, lowering them is oflow-cost, efficient operations.
Costs associated with the supported by our reporting on these measures, coupled operation of our industrial assets can be broadly categorised withthe inclusion of certain cost control evaluation measures into labour costs and other operating and infrastructure costs.
Overall production and operating costs are heavily influenced by the extent of ongoing development required, ore grades, mine planning, processing technology, logistics, energy and supply costs and the impact of exchange rate fluctuations.
All of our industrial assets are, to varying degrees, affected by changes in costs for labour and fuel.
Unit production costs are also significantly affected by production volumes and therefore production levels are frequently a key factor in determining theoverall cost competitiveness of an industrial asset.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 33 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Comments Sustainable development Health, safety, environment, including  Our operations are subject to health, safety and environmental Our approach to sustainability and our expectations of our laws along with compliance with our corporate sustainability employees, our contractors and our business partners are framework.
The processes and chemicals used in extraction outlined in our sustainability programme.
This underpins and production methods, as well as transport and storage, ourapproach towards social, environmental, safety and may impose environmental hazards.
A serious failure in compliance indicators, providing clear guidance on the theseareas could lead to an emergency or catastrophe at a site.
standards we expect all our operations to achieve.
Environmental hazards may affect not only our properties Through thereporting function within the programme, our butalso third parties.
The storage of tailings at our industrial Board and senior management receive regular updates and assets and the storage and transport of oil are material have a detailed oversight on how our business is performing examples of these risks.
across all of the sustainability indicators.
We monitor catastrophic risks, in particular across our portfolio, Environmental including those associated with particular andoperate emergency response programmes.
environmental hazards and health and safety laws may resultin increased costs or, in the event of non-compliance or Compliance with international and local regulations and incidents causing injury or death or other damage at or to our standards are our top priorities.
Our operating procedures facilities or surrounding areas may result in significant losses, andthose of our partners in relation to owned tankers including arising from 1 interruptions in production, litigation conformto industry best practice working under the guidelines and imposition of penalties and sanctions and 2 having of the International Maritime Organisation IMO, relevant licences and permits withdrawn or suspended or being forced FlagStates and top tier classification societies.
to undertake extensive remedial clean-up action or to pay for We remain focused on the significant risks facing our industry government-ordered remedial clean-up actions.
In each case arising from operational catastrophes such as the examples of liability may arise where the hazards have been caused by any tailings dam collapses in Canada and Brazil and the Turkish previous or subsequent owners or operators of the property, coal mine disaster experienced in the last two years.
byany past or present owners of adjacent properties, or by During 2015, the HSEC Committee sponsored the launch of third parties.
anew sustainability risks assurance process.
Its initial focus Catastrophes can also arise due to cyber attacks, e. g. has been on the Groups catastrophic hazards and in 2015, it where there is malicious interference with operational software received 12 reports on these hazards across a widerange of the at industrial assets.
In addition, ongoing investment continues in the Groups SafeWork health and safety programme.
Further details will also be published inour 2015 Sustainability Report.
Emissions and climate change Our global presence exposes us to a number of jurisdictions Through our sustainability programme operated under our inwhich regulations or laws have been or are being considered GCP framework, we strive to ensure emissions and climate to limit or reduce emissions.
The likely effect of these changes change issues are identified, understood and effectively will be to increase the cost for fossil fuels, impose levies for managed and monitored in order to meet international best emissions in excess of certain permitted levels and increase practice standards and ensure regulatory compliance.
We seek administrative costs for monitoring and reporting.
Third to ensure that there is a balanced debate with regard to the parties, including potential or actual investors, may also ongoing use of fossil fuels.
introduce policies adverse to the Company due to its activities Our 2015 Sustainability Report will provide further details in fossil fuels.
ofthe operation of our community engagement programme, Increasing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, including including the international standards to which we the progressive introduction of carbon emissions trading voluntarilysubmit.
mechanisms and tighter emission reduction targets is likely In recent months, there have been announcements by some toraise costs and reduce demand growth.
investment groups regarding the introduction of, or tightening of, policies concerning reduced investment in fossil fuel intensive companies.
It should be noted that in 2015 around 5% and 26% of ourrevenue and EBITDA respectively were derived from coal and oil industrial activities.
34 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Risk Comments Community relations The continued success of our existing operations and our We believe that the best way to manage these vital relationships futureprojects are in part dependent upon broad support and is to adhere to the principles of open dialogue and cooperation.
ahealthy relationship with the respective local communities.
In doing so, we engage with local communities to demonstrate A perception that we are not respecting or advancing the our operations contribution to socio-economic development interests of the communities in which we operate, could have a and seek to ensure that appropriate measures are taken to negative impact on our social licence to operate, our ability to prevent or mitigate possible adverse impacts on the secure access to new resources and our financial performance.
communities, along with the regular reporting as outlined on The consequences of negative community reaction could also our website at: www.
com sustainability ourhave a material adverse impact on the cost, profitability, ability  communities engagement.
to finance or even the viability of an operation and the safety and security of our workforce and assets.
Such events could lead to disputes with governments, with local communities or any other stakeholders, and give rise to reputational damage.
Even in cases where no adverse action is actually taken, the uncertainty associated with such instability could negatively impact the perceived value of our assets.
Employees The maintenance of positive employee and union relations and We understand that one of the key factors in our success the ability to attract and retain skilled workers, including senior is a good and trustworthy relationship with our people.
management are key to our success.
This can be challenging, This priority is reflected in the principles of our sustainability especially in locations experiencing political or civil unrest, or programme and related guidance, which require regular, in which they may be exposed to other hazardous conditions.
open, fair and respectful communication, zero tolerance for Many employees are represented by labour unions under human rights violations, fair remuneration and, above all, various collective labour agreements.
Their employing asafeworking environment, as outlined on our website at: company may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate its www.
collective labour agreements when they expire and may face tougher negotiations or higher wage demands than would be the case for non-unionised labour.
In addition, existing labour agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage.
