18 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Genus supplies biological products to agricultural Increasing genetic control and product customers and is exposed to a wide range of risks and differentiation uncertainties.
Some of these risks relate to current Targeting key business operations in our global agricultural markets, markets and while others relate to future commercial exploitation of segments our extensive R&D portfolio.
The table below outlines the principal risks and uncertainties affecting Genus Tailoring the business model and how we manage them.
More information on how we identify and manage risks Strengthening can be found in the Corporate Governance Statement core competencies on pages 58 and 59.
Strategic Risks Risk description How we manage risk Strategy Risk change in FY15 Dedicated teams align our Developing products and product development to customer ourcompetitive edge requirements, while our technical services help customers make best Development programme fails to use of our products.
We frequently produce best genetics for measure our performance against customers.
competitors in customers systems, Increased competition reduces to ensure the value added by our market share and margins.
We have a rigorous process Commercialising GSS to prepare for the successful technology commercial launch of our GSS Increased due to higher Launching a new product technology, supported by investment in GSS in dedicated internal resources 2015 in response to technology carries technical, production and financial risks.
Failure to commercialise our GSS technology due to intellectual We also initiated legal proceedings in the US, in relation to anti-trust property IP and other disputes.
The outcome of these proceedings will not be known until the second half of 2016 and could prevent or delay our plans to commercialise GSS.
Our R&D Portfolio Management Commercialising research Team oversees our research, Failure to focus research initiatives ensures we correctly prioritise our Key initiatives are progressing on commercially important areas.
R&D investments and assesses through the R&D life cycle.
Failure to lead on game-changing the adequacy of resources and technology or to make new its IP freedom to operate.
Board is updated regularly on Regulatory changes may affect the key development projects.
approval process for products or our ability to export products to certain countries.
We have a rigorous acquisition Capturing value through analysis and due diligence acquisitions process, with the Board reviewing The robust process that Failure to identify appropriate and signing-off all projects.
We helped us to successfully also have a structured postacquire and integrate investment opportunities or to perform sound due diligence.
acquisition integration planning Gntiporc in 2014 was used and execution process.
again for the acquisition and Failure to successfully integrate an acquired business.
integration of Birchwood and IVB in 2015.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 19 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Strategic Risks Risk description How we manage risk Strategy Risk change in FY15 We have a robust organisation, Growing in emerging markets blending local and expatriate Failure to appropriately develop executives supported by the Volatility in the Chinese business in China and other global species teams, to ensure porcine market continued emerging markets.
we comply with our global in 2015.
The Board provides adjusted our plans and regular oversight and dedicated approach to the market, significant time in FY15 to which reduced our risk.
discussing our strategy and the However, we were also results of our operations in China.
affected by border closures in the Russian porcine market, which increased our risk.
Operational Risks We have a global, cross-functional Protecting IP process to identify and protect our Genus-developed genetic IP.
Our customer contracts and material, methods and technology our selection of multipliers and could become freely available to JV partners include appropriate third-parties.
measures to protect our IP.
We conduct robust Freedom To Operate searches to identify third-party rights to technology.
We have stringent biosecurity Ensuring biosecurity and standards, with independent continuity of supply reviews throughout the year to We continued to strengthen ensure compliance.
We continue to our health management and Loss of key livestock, owing to disease outbreak.
extend the geographical diversity supply chain resilience.
The of our production facilities, to risks associated with the Loss of ability to move animals or semen freely including across avoid over-reliance on single sites.
2014 15 outbreak of PEDv in North America have been borders due to disease outbreak, environmental incident or significantly mitigated.
Industry-wide disease outbreaks affecting demand for Genus products.
Financial Risks We continuously monitor markets Managing agricultural market and seek to balance our costs and and commodity prices resources in response to market volatility demand.
We actively monitor and update our hedging strategy to Fluctuations in agricultural markets manage our exposure.
Our porcine affect customer profitability and royalty model and extensive use of therefore demand for our products third-party multipliers mitigates the and services.
impact of cyclical price reductions Increase in our operating costs, due or cost increases in pig production.
We are the principal employer Funding pensions for the Milk Pension Fund and Exposure to costs associated with chair the group of participating failure of third-party members of employers.
The fund is now closed joint and several liabilities pension to future service and has an agreed scheme.
deficit recovery plan, based on Exposure to costs as a result of the 2012 actuarial valuation.
The external factors such as mortality result of the 2015 triennial actuarial rates, interest rates or investment valuation is due in late 2015.
We values affecting the size of the monitor the strengths of other pension deficit.
employers in the fund and have retained external consultants to provide expert advice.
