Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk factors The principal risks discussed below are the risks and uncertainties Similarly, our business exposes us to litigation and government relevant to our business, financial condition and results of operations investigations, including but not limited to product liability litigation, patent that may affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives.
and antitrust litigation and sales and marketing litigation.
Litigation and The factors below are those that we believe could cause our actual government investigations, including related provisions we may make for results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
unfavourable outcomes and increases in related costs such as insurance premiums, could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
We must adapt to and comply with a broad range of laws and regulations.
These requirements apply to research and development, More detail on the status and various uncertainties involved in our manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution, sales and marketing of significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set out in Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare products, and affect Note 45, Legal proceedings, on pages 206 to 210. not only the cost of product development but also the time required to UK regulations require a discussion of the mitigating activities a company reach the market and the likelihood of doing so successfully.
takes to address principal risks and uncertainties.
A summary of the Moreover, as rules and regulations change, and governmental activities that the Group takes to manage each of our principal risks interpretation of those rules and regulations evolves, the nature of accompanies the description of each principal risk below.
The principal a particular risk may change.
Changes to certain regulatory regimes risk factors and uncertainties are not listed in order of signicance.
Any change in, and any failure to comply with, applicable law and regulation could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
Patient safety Risk denition Individual Medical Ofcers and the Groups substantial Global Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report adverse Safety and Pharmacovigilance organisation keep track of any adverse events from all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings issues reported for our products during the course of clinical studies.
Once a Group product is approved for marketing, the Group has an Risk impact extensive post-marketing surveillance and signal detection system.
The impact of this risk is potentially to compromise our ability to Information on possible side effects of medicines is received from conduct robust safety signal detection and interpretation and to several sources including unsolicited reports from health ensure that appropriate decisions are taken with respect to the professionals and patients, regulatory authorities, medical and risk benefit prole of our products, including the completeness scientific literature and the media.
It is our policy that employees are and accuracy of product labels and the pursuit of additional required to report immediately any issues relating to the safety or studies analyses, as appropriate.
This could lead to potential harm quality of our products.
Each of our country managers is responsible to patients, reputational damage, product liability claims or other for monitoring, exception tracking and training that helps assure the litigation, governmental investigation, regulatory action such as collection of safety information and reporting the information to the fines, penalties or loss of product authorisation.
relevant central safety department, in accordance with Group policy and legal requirements.
Context Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development Information that changes the benefit risk prole of one of the Groups of investigational Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare medicines will result in certain actions to characterise, communicate Products to determine the safety and efcacy of the products for use and minimise the risk.
Proposed actions are discussed with by humans.
Notwithstanding the efforts we make to determine the regulatory authorities and can include modifying the prescribing safety of our products through appropriate pre-clinical and clinical information, communications to physicians and other healthcare trials, unanticipated side effects may become evident only when providers, restrictions on product prescribing availability to help products are widely introduced into the marketplace.
Questions assure safe use, and sometimes carrying out further clinical trials.
may be raised not only by our ongoing safety surveillance and In certain cases, it may be appropriate to stop clinical trials or to post-marketing studies but also by governmental agencies and withdraw the medicine from the market.
The Groups Global Safety third-parties that may analyse publicly available clinical trial results.
Board GSB, comprising senior physicians and representatives of supporting functions, is an integral component of the system.
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability The GSB including subsidiary boards dedicated to Consumer lawsuits, including class actions, that involve significant claims for Healthcare Products and Vaccines reviews the safety of damages related to our products.
Litigation, particularly in the US, is investigational and marketed products across the Group and has inherently unpredictable.
Class actions that seek to sweep together the authority to stop a clinical trial if continued conduct of such trial all persons who were prescribed our products increase the potential is not ethically or scientically justied in light of information that has liability.
Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages are emerged since the start of the trial.
frequently asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed, can represent potentially open-ended exposure and thus, could materially In addition to the medical governance framework within the Group and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
as described above, the Group uses several mechanisms to foster the early evaluation, mitigation, and resolution of disputes as they Mitigating activities arise and of potential claims even before they arise.
The goal of The Chief Medical officer CMO is responsible for medical the programmes is to create a culture of early identication and governance for the Group under a global policy.
Under that policy, evaluation of risks and claims actual or potential, in order to safeguarding human subjects in our clinical trials and patients who minimise liability and litigation.
take our products is of paramount importance, and the CMO has the authoritative role for evaluating and addressing matters of human safety.
GSK Annual Report 2015 231 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk factors continued Intellectual property Risk denition Generic drug manufacturers have also exhibited a readiness to Failure to appropriately secure and protect intellectual property market generic versions of many of our most important products prior rights.
to the expiration of our patents.
Their efforts may involve challenges to the validity or enforceability of a patent or assertions that their Risk impact generic product does not infringe our patents.
As a result, we are Any failure to obtain or subsequent loss of patent protection, and may continue to be involved in legal proceedings involving patent including reducing the availability or scope of patent rights or challenges, which may materially and adversely affect our financial compulsory licensing in which a government forces a manufacturer results.
Moreover, in the US, it has become increasingly common for to license its patents for specic products to a competitor, could patent infringement actions to prompt claims that anti-trust laws have materially and adversely affect our financial results in those markets.
been violated during the prosecution of the patent or during litigation Absence of adequate patent or data exclusivity protection could limit involving the defence of that patent.
Such claims by direct and the opportunity to rely on such markets for future sales growth for our indirect purchasers and other payers are typically led as class products, which could also materially and adversely affect our actions.
The relief sought may include treble damages and restitution financial results.
Similarly, anti-trust claims may be brought by government Context entities or private parties following settlement of patent litigation, As an innovative Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare alleging that such settlements are anti-competitive and in violation Products company, we seek to obtain appropriate intellectual of anti-trust laws.
A successful anti-trust claim by a private party or property protection for our products.
Our ability to obtain and enforce government entity could materially and adversely affect our financial patents and other proprietary rights with regard to our products is results.
critical to our business strategy and success.
Pharmaceutical and The expiration dates for patents for our major products which may Vaccine products are usually only protected from being copied by affect the dates on which generic versions of our products may be generic manufacturers during the period of exclusivity provided by introduced are set out on pages 228 to 229.
Legal proceedings an issued patent or related intellectual property rights such as involving patent challenges are set out in Note 45 to the financial Regulatory Data Protection or Orphan Drug status.
expiration of certain intellectual property rights, a generic manufacturer may lawfully produce a generic version of the product.
Mitigating activities Our Global Patents group focuses on securing and protecting We operate in markets where intellectual property laws and patent our patent rights.
This global group maintains internal processes ofces are still developing and where governments may be unwilling designed to seek to ensure successful procurement, enforcement to grant or enforce intellectual property rights in a fashion similar to and defence of our patents with the goal of maintaining exclusive more developed regions such as the EU, Japan and the US.
Some rights in markets for our products.
developing countries have limited, or threatened to limit, effective patent protection for pharmaceutical products in order to facilitate The Global Patents group monitors new developments in early competition within their markets from generic manufacturers.
international patent law to seek to ensure appropriate protection of our assets.
Sometimes acting through trade associations, we work We face competition from manufacturers of proprietary and generic with local governments to seek to secure effective and balanced pharmaceutical products in all of our major markets.
Introduction of intellectual property protection designed to meet the needs of generic products, particularly in the US where we have our highest patients and payers while supporting long-term investment in turnover and margins, typically leads to a rapid and dramatic loss of innovation.
sales and reduces our revenues and margins for our proprietary products.
We depend on certain key products for a significant portion of our sales.
One such product is our respiratory pharmaceutical product Seretide Advair which accounts for significant Group sales worldwide.
The timing and impact of entry in the US for a generic product containing the same combination of active substances as Seretide Advair is uncertain.
The US patent for compositions containing the combination of active substances in Seretide Advair expired during 2010 although the US patent on a component of the Advair Diskus device continues until August 2016.
Generic products containing the same combination of active substances as Seretide Advair in both metered dose inhalers and dry powder inhalers have been launched by several manufacturers in a number of European markets.
The timing and impact of entry in the US and major markets in Europe for a follow-on product to Seretide Advair is uncertain.
232 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Product quality Risk denition There is no single external global quality standard or system which Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices governs the lifecycle of medicinal products and requirements are cGMP or inadequate controls and governance of quality in the often complex and fragmented across national and regional supply chain covering supplier standards, manufacturing and boundaries.
The ICH guideline Q10: Pharmaceutical Quality distribution of products.
Systems provides a model for a comprehensive quality framework which takes into account international quality concepts and is Risk impact designed to be implemented through the product lifecycle.
This A failure to ensure product quality could have far reaching framework has been adopted by GSK and is augmented with a implications in terms of patient and consumer safety resulting in consolidation of multiple regulatory requirements from across the product launch delays, supply interruptions and product recalls world in order to seek to ensure that the GSK PQS meets external which would have the potential to do damage to our reputation.
expectations for Product Quality in the markets supplied.
The PQS Associated regulatory, legal, and financial consequences could is regularly updated to seek to ensure it keeps pace with external materially and adversely affect our reputation and financial results.
regulatory changes, and reects both operational improvements Context and new scientific understanding to support the delivery of Patients, consumers and healthcare professionals trust the quality consistent and reliable products.
A failure to ensure product quality is an enterprise An extensive global network of quality and compliance risk which is applicable across all of our business activities.
professionals is aligned with each business unit to provide Product quality may be inuenced by many factors including oversight and assist with the delivery of quality performance and product and process understanding, consistency of manufacturing operational compliance, from site level to senior management level.
components, compliance with GMP, accuracy of labelling, Management oversight of those activities is accomplished through reliability of the external supply chain, and the embodiment of an a hierarchy of Quality Councils and through an independent Chief overarching quality culture.
The internal and external environment Product Quality officer and Global Product Quality Ofce.
continues to evolve as new products, new markets and new legislation are introduced, with increasing scrutiny of supply GSK has implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and continuity, a focus on improved distribution practice and the managing our third-party suppliers that provide materials used in introduction of novel cell and gene based therapies.
Contract manufacturers making our products inspections conducted across the industry by national regulatory are expected to comply with standards identied by GSK and are authorities during 2015 highlighted an ongoing focus on data audited to help provide assurance that expected standards are integrity, contamination prevention and the rigour of quality met.
investigations including the robustness of decision making and All staff members are regularly trained to seek to ensure that the timely escalation of pertinent issues to regulatory authorities.
cGMP standards and behaviours based on our GSK values are Mitigating activities followed.
Additionally, advocacy and communication programmes We have developed and implemented a single Pharmaceutical are routinely deployed to seek to ensure consistent messages are Quality System PQS that defines the quality standards and conveyed across GSK, whether they originate from changes in systems for our businesses associated with Pharmaceuticals, regulation or learnings from inspections or regulatory submissions.
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare products and clinical trial There is a continued emphasis on the value of quality performance materials.
This system has a broad scope and is applicable metrics to facilitate improvement and foster a culture of right throughout the lifecycle of products from R&D to mature first time.
GSK Annual Report 2015 233 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk factors continued Financial control and reporting Risk denition Third parties are critical to our business delivery and are an Failure to comply with current tax law or incurring significant integral part of the solution to improve our productivity, quality, losses due to treasury activities: failure to report accurate financial service and innovation.
We rely on third-parties, including information in compliance with accounting standards and applicable suppliers, distributors, individual contractors, licensees, and legislation: failure to maintain adequate governance and oversight other pharmaceutical and biotechnology collaboration partners over third-party relationships.
for discovery, manufacture, and marketing of our products and important business processes.
Risk impact Non-compliance with existing or new financial reporting and Third party business relationships present a material risk.
For disclosure requirements, or changes to the recognition of income example, we share critical and sensitive information such as and expenses, could expose us to litigation and regulatory action marketing plans, clinical data, and employee data with specic and could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
third parties who are conducting the relevant outsourced business Changes in tax laws or in their application with respect to matters operations.
Inadequate protection or misuse of this information such as transfer pricing, foreign dividends, controlled companies, by third parties could have significant business impact.
Similarly, R&D tax credits, taxation of intellectual property or a restriction in tax we use distributors and agents in a range of activities such as relief allowed on the interest on intra-group debt, could impact our promotion and tendering which have inherent risks such as effective tax rate.
significant losses may arise from inconsistent inappropriate promotion or corruption.
insufficient internal application of treasury policies, transactional or settlement errors, compliance and controls by the distributors could affect our or counterparty defaults.
Any changes in the substance or reputation.
These risks are further increased by the complexities application of the governing tax laws, failure to comply with such tax of working with large numbers of third parties.
laws or significant losses due to treasury activities could materially Mitigating activities and adversely affect our financial results.
The Group maintains a control environment designed to identify Failure to adequately manage third-party relationships could result in material errors in financial reporting and disclosure.
The design business interruption and exposure to risk ranging from sub-optimal and operating effectiveness of key financial reporting controls contractual terms and conditions, to severe business sanctions are regularly tested by management and via independent business and or significant reputational damage.
Any of these consequences monitoring.
This provides us with the assurance that controls over could materially and adversely affect our business operations and key financial reporting and disclosure processes have operated financial results.
Context We keep up-to-date with the latest developments in financial The Group is required by the laws of various jurisdictions to reporting requirements by working with our external auditors disclose publicly its financial results and events that could and legal advisors.
materially affect the financial results of the Group.
Regulators There is shared accountability for financial results across our routinely review the financial statements of listed companies for businesses.
Financial results are reviewed and approved by compliance with new, revised or existing accounting and regulatory regional management and then reviewed with the Financial requirements.
The Group believes that it complies with the Controller and the Chief Financial officer CFO.
This allows our appropriate regulatory requirements concerning our financial Financial Controller and our CFO to assess the evolution of the statements and disclosure of material information including any business over time, and to evaluate performance to plan.
transactions relating to business restructuring such as acquisitions significant judgments are reviewed and confirmed by senior and divestitures.
However, should we be subject to an investigation management.
Business reorganisations and newly acquired into potential non-compliance with accounting and disclosure activities such as Novartis acquired businesses and Oncology requirements, this may lead to restatements of previously reported divestitures are integrated into risk assessments and appropriate results and significant penalties.
controls and reviews have been applied.
Our Treasury group deals in high value transactions, mostly foreign We introduced additional resources and monitoring to ensure that exchange and cash management transactions, on a daily basis.
robust financial controls were maintained during 2015, effectively The Groups effective tax rate reects rates of tax in the managing risks while the initial phase of integrating the former jurisdictions in which the Group operates that are both higher Novartis businesses into our control and reporting framework and lower than the UK rate and take into account regimes that were implemented, and the ongoing transformation and upgrade encourage innovation and investment in science by providing tax to our financial systems and processes continued.
Additional risk incentives which, if changed, could affect the Groups tax rate.
mitigation was introduced by amending the programme timelines of the ongoing system upgrades.
The tax charge included in our financial statements is our best estimate of tax liability pending audits by tax authorities.
The The Group maintains a Disclosure Committee reporting to the worldwide nature of our operations and cross-border supply Board, which reviews the Groups quarterly results and Annual routes can be complex and can lead to questions on tax audit.
Report and determines throughout the year, in consultation with its legal advisors, whether it is necessary to disclose publicly There continues to be a significant international focus on tax information about the Group through Stock Exchange reform, including the OECDs BEPS project and European announcements.
Commission initiatives such as the proposed anti-BEPS Directive and the increased use of scal state aid investigations.
Together The Treasury Management Group TMG meets on a regular with domestic initiatives around the world, these may result in basis to seek to ensure that liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency significant changes to established tax principals and an increase transaction and foreign currency translation risks are all managed in tax authority disputes.
These, regardless of their merit or in line with the conservative approach as detailed in the associated outcomes, can be costly, divert management attention and may risk strategies and policies which have been adopted by the adversely impact our reputation.
234 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Financial control and reporting continued Oversight of Treasurys role in managing counterparty risk in To seek to guide and enforce our global principles for interactions line with agreed policy is performed by a Corporate Compliance with third parties we have in place a policy framework applicable officer CCO, who operates independently of Treasury.
to buying goods and services, managing our external spend, paying and working with our third parties.
This policy framework Further details on mitigation of Treasury Risks can be found on applies to all employees and complementary workers worldwide.
page 192, Note 41, Financial instruments and related disclosures.
The framework is complemented by technical and local standards Tax risk is managed by a set of policies and procedures to seek designed to seek to ensure alignment with the nature of third to ensure consistency and compliance with tax legislation.
party interactions, such as good manufacturing practice and adherence to local laws and regulations.
Independent business We seek to maintain open, positive relationships with governments monitoring of key financial and operational controls is in place and tax authorities worldwide.
We monitor government debate and is supplemented by periodic checks from the companys on tax policy in our key jurisdictions to deal proactively with any independent Audit & Assurance function.
potential future changes in tax law.
We engage advisors and legal counsel to review tax legislation and the implications for our Continuous monitoring and performance of third parties is business.
Where relevant we are active in providing relevant enhanced through a Third Party Oversight team in the Global business input to tax policy makers.
This team commenced implementation of a global programme that takes an enterprise A centralised team of dedicated specialists are responsible for view of third party related risks, the programme is strengthening managing transactional tax reporting and compliance.
risk assessment and due diligence efforts on third parties and We submit tax returns according to statutory time limits and improving the overall management of our third party risks through engage with tax authorities to seek to ensure our tax affairs are the lifecycle of the third party engagement.
Oversight for the current, entering into arrangements such as Continuous Audit programme is provided by the newly created global risk ofce Programmes and Advance Pricing Agreements to provide within GSKs Global Ethics and Compliance group.
long-term certainty over tax treatment where appropriate.
In exceptional cases where matters cannot be settled by agreement with tax authorities, we may have to resolve disputes through formal appeals or other proceedings.
Each business unit leadership team retains ultimate accountability for managing third party interactions and risks.
When working with third parties, all GSK employees are expected to manage external interactions and commitments responsibly.
This expectation is embedded in our values and code of conduct.
It is our responsibility that all activities are performed safely and in compliance with applicable laws and GSKs values, standards and code of conduct.
GSK Annual Report 2015 235 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk factors continued Anti-Bribery and Corruption Risk denition Mitigating activities Failure to prevent GSK employees and third parties not complying Our Code of Conduct, values and behaviours and commitment to with our ABAC principles and standards, as well as with all zero tolerance are integral to how we mitigate this risk.
In light of applicable legislation.
the complexity and geographic breadth of this risk, we constantly enhance our oversight of activities and data, reinforce to our Risk impact employees and contractors clear expectations regarding Failure to mitigate this risk could expose the Group and associated acceptable behaviours, and maintain on-going communications persons to governmental investigation, regulatory action and civil between the Group centre headquarters and local markets.
and criminal liability, as well as damage the Groups reputation, shareholder value, and our licence to operate in particular The Group has an enterprise-wide ABAC programme designed jurisdictions, all of which could materially and adversely affect to respond to the threat and risk of bribery and corruption.
builds on the Groups values and existing standards to form a comprehensive and practical approach to compliance, and is Context exible to the evolving nature of our business.
For example, we We are exposed to bribery and corruption risk through our global scaled our acquisition ABAC due diligence specic to the 2015 business operations.
In some markets, the government structure Novartis transaction.
and the rule of law are less developed, and this has a bearing on our bribery and corruption risk exposure.
In addition to the global Our ABAC programme is supported by: top-level commitment nature of our business, the healthcare sector is highly competitive from the Group Board of Directors and leadership throughout the and subject to regulation.
This increases the instances where we business: ongoing risk assessment: a global ABAC policy: and are exposed to activities and interactions with bribery and written standards that address commercial and other practices corruption risk.
that give rise to ABAC risk: due diligence of high risk third parties: ongoing training and communications: a condential reporting line: The US and UK authorities are leading extra-territorial ABAC monitoring of compliance and an investigations team.
In addition, enquiries into certain of the Groups operations.
These the programme mandates enhanced controls over interactions with investigations are discussed further in Note 45 Legal proceedings.
government ofcials and when undertaking business development transactions.
Programme governance is provided by the Groups ABAC Governance Board which includes representation from key functional areas and business units.
Additionally, we have a dedicated ABAC team responsible for the implementation and evolution of the programme in response to developments in the internal and external environment.
This is complemented with ABAC investigations, ABAC Audit and Independent Business Monitoring teams which have separate reporting lines.
We continually benchmark our ABAC programme against other large multi-national companies and use external expertise to review and help improve elements of our ABAC programme.
As a result of the China and other country investigations, the Group has increased resources in both its centrally located ABAC team as well as regional ABAC teams.
During 2015, we also completed an ABAC review and reduced our presence in a number of high-risk markets.
236 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Commercialisation Risk denition Mitigating activities Failure to execute business strategies, or manage competitive Our strategic objectives are designed to ensure the Group opportunities or threats effectively and in accordance with the achieves its mission of helping people do more, feel better and letter and spirit of legal, industry or company requirements.
The Group continues to transform by strengthening our presence in key emerging markets, restructuring R&D, simplifying Risk impact core business operations and reducing our manufacturing Failure to manage risks related to commercialisation could footprint.
Our recent transaction with Novartis has helped further materially and adversely affect our ability to grow a diversied accelerate this pace of change, while strengthening our three global business and deliver more products of value.
core businesses: Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may Healthcare.
result in governmental investigation, regulatory action and legal These changes are allowing us to be more global and more proceedings brought against the Group by governmental and relevant to the needs of the world.
Our aim is to reach as many private plaintiffs.
Failure to provide accurate and complete patients and consumers as we can, improving their health and information related to our products may result in incomplete wellbeing through the use of our products.
How we deliver this awareness of the benefit:risk prole of our products and possibly goal is just as important as what we achieve.
Our values provide a suboptimal treatment of patients and consumers.
Any of these guide for how we lead and make decisions.
We constantly strive to consequences could materially and adversely affect the Group.
do the right thing and deliver quality products, seeking to ensure Any practices that are found to be misaligned with our values our behaviours reect our values and the mission of our company.
could also result in reputational damage and dilute trust established with key stakeholders.
The Corporate Executive Team has set out their shared objectives which describe the most important priorities we need to deliver Context across the Group and a set of enterprise-wide projects which We operate on a global basis in an industry that is both highly are critical to achieving these objectives.
The strategic objectives competitive and highly regulated.
Our competitors may make are cascaded throughout the Group to ensure enterprise-wide significant product innovations and technical advances and may alignment.
Processes are in place to regularly review achievement intensify price competition.
In light of this competitive environment, towards these objectives.
continued development of commercially viable new products and the development of additional uses for existing products are critical We have taken action at all levels of the Group to enhance and to achieve our strategic objectives.
improve standards and procedures for promotional interactions, based on our values of transparency, respect, integrity and patient Developing new pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare focus.
We have policies and standards governing promotional products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process, however, activities undertaken by the Group or on its behalf.
All of these and a product candidate may fail at any stage, including after activities we conduct worldwide must conform to high ethical, significant Group economic and human resources have been regulatory, and industry standards.
Where local standards differ invested.
Our competitors products or pricing strategies or any from global standards, the more stringent of the two applies.
failure on our part to develop commercially successful products, The Group has harmonised policies and procedures to guide or to develop additional uses for existing products, could materially above country Commercial Practices processes as well as and adversely affect our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.
claried applicable standards when engaging in the markets.
We are committed to the ethical and responsible Commercial Practices activities have oversight from both business commercialisation of our products to support our mission to unit Risk Management and Compliance Boards RMCBs and improve the quality of human life by enabling people to do more, Country Executive Boards CEBs that manage risks across feel better, and live longer.
To accomplish this mission, we engage in-country business activities.
the healthcare community in various ways to provide important All promotional materials and activities must be reviewed and information about our medicines.
approved according to the Groups policies and standards, and Promotion of approved products seeks to ensure that HCPs globally conducted in accordance with local laws and regulations, to seek have access to information they need, that patients and consumers to ensure that these materials and activities fairly represent the have access to the products they need and that products are products or services of the Group.
When necessary, we have prescribed, recommended or used in a manner that provides the disciplined up to and including termination employees who have maximum healthcare benefit to patients and consumers.
We are engaged in misconduct and have broadened our ability to claw committed to communicating information related to our approved back remuneration from senior management in the event of products in a responsible, legal, and ethical manner.
At times, researchers, HCPs, healthcare organisations HCOs In 2015, GSK also implemented globally changes already made and other external experts that we engage may be compensated in the US to the compensation model for sales professionals and for services and expertise provided.
However, payments must their managers who interact with HCPs.
The changes eliminate not be excessive and must never be or be perceived to be an rewards based on sales or market shares in individuals territories inducement or reward for prescribing or recommending our in favour of rewards based on the quality of the individuals products.
Consistent with our ABAC policies, they also must interactions with healthcare professionals.
Starting in 2016, GSK comply with a markets ABAC laws if the recipient of any payment will implement its prior commitment to stop paying HCPs to deliver is a government ofcial.
promotional presentations for GSK or directly to sponsor their travel to medical educational conferences.
In 2012, we paid $3 billion 1.9 billion to resolve government investigations in the US focused in large part on promotional practices and in 2014 we paid RMB 3 billion 301 million, to resolve a government investigation in China focused on offering money or property to non-government personnel in order to obtain improper commercial gains.
GSK Annual Report 2015 237 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk factors continued Research practices Risk denition Mitigating activities Failure adequately to conduct ethical and sound preclinical and We established an Ofce of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Strategy clinical research.
In addition, failure to engage in scientific activities OAWES, led by the Chief of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Strategy, that are consistent with the letter and spirit of the law, industry, or to seek to ensure the humane and responsible care of animals and the Groups requirements.
increase the knowledge and application of non-animal alternatives for the Group.
OAWES embeds a framework of animal welfare Risk impact governance, promotes application of 3Rs replacement, renement The impacts of the risk include harm to patients, reputational damage, and reduction of animals in research, explores opportunities for failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for our products, cross-industry data sharing, and conducts quality assessments.
governmental investigation, legal proceedings brought against the Group by governmental and private plaintiffs product liability suits We report the results of our human subject research for our and claims for damages, and regulatory action such as fines, medicines and vaccines on our publicly accessible clinical study penalties or loss of product authorisation.
Any of these register website, on government-required repositories, and we consequences could materially and adversely affect our financial submit human research results as manuscripts for publication in results.
During 2015, we disclosed over 450 Clinical Study Reports of marketed and terminated medicines Context once the research results were published in the scientific literature Research relating to animals can raise ethical concerns.
While we on our register, bringing the total reports available to over 550.
By attempt to proactively address this, animal studies remain a vital part the end of 2015, we listed over 1,700 clinical trials on the GSK of our research.
In many cases, they are the only method that can be online system, www.
com, and have used to investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a living completed our commitment to list completed global studies body before it is tested in humans, and they are generally mandated conducted since the formation of GSK in 2000.
The online system by regulators and ethically imperative.
Animal research can provide allows researchers to request access to anonymised patient-level critical information about the causes of diseases and how they data from the Groups clinical trials after the medicine has been develop.
Some countries require additional animal testing even approved or terminated and the trial has been published.
when medicines have been approved for use elsewhere.
We have a Global Human Biological Samples Management HBSM Clinical trials in healthy volunteers and patients are used to assess governance framework in place to oversee the ethical and lawful and demonstrate an investigational products efcacy and safety acquisition and management of human biological samples.
Our or further evaluate the product once it has been approved for global HBSM network champions HBSM activities and provides an marketing.
We also work with human biological samples.
These experienced group to support internal Sample Custodians on best samples are fundamental to the discovery, development and safety practice.
It remains an important priority to enhance our data integrity The integrity of our data is essential to success in all stages of controls.
During 2015 we began work on a new written standard the research data lifecycle: design, generation, recording and to seek to ensure the integrity of our data across Research and management, analysis, reporting and storage and retrieval.
A Data Integrity Committee was in place research data is governed by legislation and regulatory requirements.
throughout the year to provide oversight and a Data Integrity Quality Assurance team began conducting assessments intended Research data and supporting documents are core components at to provide independent business monitoring of our internal controls various stages of pipeline progression decision-making and also for R&D activities.
form the content of regulatory submissions.
Poor data integrity can compromise our research efforts.
The Chief Regulatory officer oversees the activities of the Regulatory Governance Board which includes promoting There are innate complexities and interdependencies required compliance with regulatory requirements and Group-wide for regulatory lings, particularly given our global research and standards, making regulatory services more efficient and agile, development footprint.
Rapid changes in submission requirements and further aligning regulatory capabilities with our international in developing countries continue to increase the complexity of business needs at the enterprise and local levels.
The Group strictly prohibits promotional practices prior to marketing scientific Engagement SE is an essential part of scientific authorisation, and care is taken to seek to ensure that scientific discourse dened as the interaction and exchange of information Engagement activity is not perceived to be promotional.
between GSK and external communities in order to advance scientific and medical understanding, including the appropriate Specic accountability and authorisation for scientific Engagement development and use of our products.
Such non-promotional resides within the Medical Governance framework that is overseen by engagement with external stakeholder groups is vital to GSKs the Medical Governance Executive Committee MGEC, accountable mission and necessary for scientific and medical advance.
to the Chief Medical officer.
MGEC is responsible for oversight of applicable Policies and seeking to ensure the highest level of integrity The scope of SE activities includes: advisory boards: scientific and continuous development of scientific Engagement at GSK.
This consultancies: pre-planned informal discussions with Healthcare framework seeks to ensure the right level of accountability and clear Professionals HCP : sharing medical information: publications programme guidance above country across R&D business units and including abstracts to congresses : scientific interactions with in Local Operating Companies LOC.
payers, patients, governments and the media: and support for Independent Medical Education.
Non-independent educational The Group takes an integrated approach to managing both scientific activities are covered by Commercial Practices CP.
Engagement and Commercial Practices related risks, including a combined guidance document for Promotional Code and scientific SE activities are essential but present legal, regulatory, and Engagement standards.
In this way, those considerations and risks reputational risk if the sharing of data, invited media coverage or that are common to both scientific Engagement and Commercial payments for service providers has, or is perceived to have, Practices such as ABAC and Healthcare Professionals HCP inappropriate promotional intent.
The risks are particularly high engagements are managed in the right context and in one place where HCP engagement and associated Financial and or Transfer of Value disclosures are required by GSK.
to seek to ensure clarity and clear lines of accountability.
238 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Environment, health and safety and sustainability Risk denition Mitigating activities Failure to manage EHSS risks in line with our objectives and The Corporate Executive Team is responsible for EHSS policies and with relevant laws and regulations.
governance for the Group under a global policy.
Under that policy, the CET seeks to ensure there is a control framework in place to Risk impact manage the risks, impacts and legal compliance issues that relate Failure to manage EHSS risks could lead to significant harm to to EHSS and for assigning responsibility to senior managers for people, the environment and communities in which we operate, providing and maintaining those controls.
Individual managers seek fines, failure to meet stakeholder expectations and regulatory to ensure that the EHSS control framework is effective and well requirements, litigation or regulatory action, and damage to the implemented in their respective business area and that it is fully Groups reputation and could materially and adversely affect our compliant with all applicable laws and regulations, adequately financial results.
resourced, maintained, communicated, and monitored.
Context Additionally, each employee is personally responsible for ensuring The Group is subject to health, safety and environmental laws of that all applicable local standard operating procedures are various jurisdictions.
These laws impose duties to protect people, followed and expected to take responsibility for EHSS matters.
the environment and the communities in which we operate as well Our risk-based, proactive approach is articulated in our refreshed as potential obligations to remediate contaminated sites.
We have Global EHS Standards which support our EHSS policy and also been identied as a potentially responsible party under the objective to discover, develop, manufacture, supply and sell our US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and products without harming people or the environment.
In addition Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to to the design and provision of safe facilities, plant and equipment, our use or ownership of such sites.
Failure to manage these we operate rigorous procedures that help us eliminate hazards environmental risks properly could result in litigation, regulatory where practicable and protect employees health and well-being.
action and additional remedial costs that may materially and adversely affect our financial results.
See Note 45 to the financial Through our continuing efforts to improve environmental statements, Legal proceedings, for a discussion of the sustainability we have reduced our value chain carbon intensity environmental related proceedings in which we are involved.
We per pack, water consumption and waste generation.
We actively routinely accrue amounts related to our liabilities for such matters.
manage our environmental remediation obligations and seek to ensure practices are environmentally sustainable and compliant.
Our EHSS performance results are shared with the public each year in our Responsible Business Supplement.
Information protection Risk denition Mitigating activities Failure to protect and maintain access to critical or sensitive The Group has a global information protection policy that is computer systems or information.
supported through a dedicated programme of activity.
To increase our focus on information security, the Group established the Risk impact Information Protection & Privacy function to provide strategy, Failure to adequately protect critical and sensitive systems direction, and oversight while enhancing our global information and information may result in loss of commercial or strategic security capabilities.
advantage, damage to our reputation, litigation, or other business disruption including regulatory sanction, which could materially We assess changes in our information protection risk environment and adversely affect our financial results.
through briengs by government agencies, subscription to commercial threat intelligence services and knowledge sharing Context with other Pharmaceutical and cross-industry companies.
We rely on critical and sensitive systems and data, such as corporate strategic plans, sensitive personally identiable We aim to use industry best practices as part of our information information, intellectual property, manufacturing systems and trade security policies, processes and technologies and invest in secrets.
There is the potential that malicious or careless actions strategies that are commensurate with the changing nature of expose our computer systems or information to misuse or the security threat landscape.
We are also subject to various laws that govern the processing Several GSK employees were indicted for theft of GSK research of Personally Identiable Information Pll.
While the charges against the individuals are Corporate Rules BCRs have been approved by the UK concerning, based on what we know, we do not believe this Information Commissioners Ofce for human resource and breach has had any material impact on the companys R&D activity research activities data.
BCRs have been signed by 23 European or ongoing business.
GSK is conducting a full internal review into states allowing us transfer PII internationally between the Groups what occurred, and planning to continue to enhance the multiple entities without individual privacy agreements in each European layers of data protection that we already have in place.
GSK Annual Report 2015 239 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk factors continued Crisis and continuity management Risk denition The improved linkage between commercial forecasting and Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant nished manufacturing made possible by our Core Commercial Cycle product: inability to recover and sustain critical operations, methodology should over time, decrease the risk associated with including key supply chains, following a disruption, or to respond demand uctuations impacting our ability to supply or write-offs to a crisis incident, in a timely manner.
associated with product exceeding expiry dating.
During 2015, each node of the supply chain was optimised to seek to ensure Risk impact adequate safety stock while balancing working capital associated We recognise that failure to supply of our products can adversely with the end-to-end supply chain.
impact consumers and patients who rely on them.
A material interruption of supply or exclusion from healthcare programmes Safety stocks and backup supply arrangements for medicallycould expose us to litigation or regulatory action, incurring of fines critical and high-revenue products are in place to help mitigate or disgorgement and materially and adversely affect the Groups this risk.
In addition, the compliance of manufacturing external financial results.
The Groups international operations, and those suppliers is routinely monitored in order to identify and manage of its partners, maintain a vast global footprint also expose our supply base risks.
Where practical, dependencies on single workforce, facilities, operations and information technology to sources of critical items are removed.
Our reliance on single potential disruption resulting from a natural event e. g. storm or source components has been further reduced for certain key earthquake, a man-made event e. g. civil unrest, terrorism, or products through qualication of alternative materials that will help a global emergency e. g. Ebola outbreak, Flu pandemic.
It is improve supply chain robustness.
In cases, where dual sourcing is important for GSK to have robust crisis management and recovery not possible, an inventory strategy has been developed to protect plans in place to manage such events.
the supply chain from unanticipated disruption.
Context We continued to implement anti-counterfeit systems such as Our supply chain operations are subject to review and approval by product serialisation in accordance with emerging supply chain various regulatory agencies that effectively provide our licence to requirements around the world.
Failure by our manufacturing and distribution facilities or CCM governance for the Group is set forth in a global policy.
by suppliers of key services and materials could lead to litigation or Under that policy, each business unit and functional area head regulatory action such as product recalls and seizures, interruption BU ensures effective crisis management and business of supply, delays in the approval of new products, and suspension continuity plans are in place that include authorised response of manufacturing operations pending resolution of manufacturing and recovery strategies, key areas of responsibility and clear or logistics issues.
communication routes before a business disruption occurs.
Additionally, each BU is represented on a CCM governance board Materials and services provided by third-party suppliers are which performs risk oversight and provides vital information to the necessary for the commercial production of our products, CCM programme team regarding new threats, acquisitions or including active pharmaceutical ingredients API, antigens, significant business or organisational changes.
intermediates, commodities and components necessary for the manufacture and packaging of many of our Pharmaceutical, A dedicated team of CCM experts supports the business.
Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare products.
Some of the Their responsibilities include: chairing the governance board: third-party services procured, such as services provided by coordinating crisis management and business continuity training: contract manufacturing organisations and clinical research facilitating exercises and monitoring to provide for global organisations to support development of key products, are consistency and alignment: and centrally storing and monitoring important to ensure continuous operation of our businesses.
updates for plans supporting our critical business processes.
Although we undertake business continuity planning, single These activities help ensure an appropriate level of readiness and sourcing of certain components, bulk API, nished products, response capability is maintained.
We also develop and maintain and services creates a risk of failure of supply in the event of partnerships with external bodies like the Business Continuity regulatory non-compliance or physical disruption at the Institute and the UN International Strategy for Disaster Risk manufacturing sites or logistics system.
Reduction which helps improve our business continuity initiatives in disaster prone areas and supports the development of The failure of a small number of single-source, third-party suppliers community resilience to disasters.
or service providers to full their contractual obligations in a timely manner or as a result of regulatory non-compliance or physical We continue to evaluate the implications for our business of a disruption of logistics and manufacturing sites may result in delays possible exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union.
While the UK leaving the EU would create uncertainty and potentially add complexity to a wide range of our business Through effective crisis management and business continuity activities, we do not currently believe that there would be a planning we are committed to providing for the health and safety material adverse impact on the Groups results in the longer term.
of our people, minimising damage and impact to the Group, and maintaining functional operations following a natural or man-made We continually improve our CCM risk management programme disaster, or a public health emergency.
and tools based on learning from plan activations.
For example, the Group has implemented a global system that provides GSK Mitigating activities leaders with access to the vital information they need to effectively Our supply chain model is designed to seek to ensure the supply, respond to disruptions and for monitoring the status of their quality and security of our products globally.
We closely monitor, preparedness and response capability.
We regularly solicit and through the Supply Chain Governance Committees, the inventory take recommendations for improvements from many different status and delivery of our products to seek to ensure that our sources suppliers charged with the responsibility for assisting customers have the medicines, vaccines and products they need.
in managing GSKs risks and introduce new tools to improve our CCM practices.
