Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk factors The principal risks discussed below are the risks and uncertainties Similarly, our business exposes us to litigation and government relevant to our business, financial condition and results of operations investigations, including but not limited to product liability litigation, patent that may affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives.
and antitrust litigation and sales and marketing litigation.
Litigation and The factors below are those that we believe could cause our actual government investigations, including related provisions we may make for results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
unfavourable outcomes and increases in related costs such as insurance premiums, could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
We must adapt to and comply with a broad range of laws and regulations.
These requirements apply to research and development, More detail on the status and various uncertainties involved in our manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution, sales and marketing of significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set out in Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare products, and affect Note 45, Legal proceedings, on pages 206 to 210. not only the cost of product development but also the time required to UK regulations require a discussion of the mitigating activities a company reach the market and the likelihood of doing so successfully.
takes to address principal risks and uncertainties.
A summary of the Moreover, as rules and regulations change, and governmental activities that the Group takes to manage each of our principal risks interpretation of those rules and regulations evolves, the nature of accompanies the description of each principal risk below.
The principal a particular risk may change.
Changes to certain regulatory regimes risk factors and uncertainties are not listed in order of signicance.
Any change in, and any failure to comply with, applicable law and regulation could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
Patient safety Risk denition Individual Medical Ofcers and the Groups substantial Global Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report adverse Safety and Pharmacovigilance organisation keep track of any adverse events from all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings issues reported for our products during the course of clinical studies.
Once a Group product is approved for marketing, the Group has an Risk impact extensive post-marketing surveillance and signal detection system.
The impact of this risk is potentially to compromise our ability to Information on possible side effects of medicines is received from conduct robust safety signal detection and interpretation and to several sources including unsolicited reports from health ensure that appropriate decisions are taken with respect to the professionals and patients, regulatory authorities, medical and risk benefit prole of our products, including the completeness scientific literature and the media.
It is our policy that employees are and accuracy of product labels and the pursuit of additional required to report immediately any issues relating to the safety or studies analyses, as appropriate.
This could lead to potential harm quality of our products.
Each of our country managers is responsible to patients, reputational damage, product liability claims or other for monitoring, exception tracking and training that helps assure the litigation, governmental investigation, regulatory action such as collection of safety information and reporting the information to the fines, penalties or loss of product authorisation.
relevant central safety department, in accordance with Group policy and legal requirements.
Context Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development Information that changes the benefit risk prole of one of the Groups of investigational Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare medicines will result in certain actions to characterise, communicate Products to determine the safety and efcacy of the products for use and minimise the risk.
Proposed actions are discussed with by humans.
Notwithstanding the efforts we make to determine the regulatory authorities and can include modifying the prescribing safety of our products through appropriate pre-clinical and clinical information, communications to physicians and other healthcare trials, unanticipated side effects may become evident only when providers, restrictions on product prescribing availability to help products are widely introduced into the marketplace.
Questions assure safe use, and sometimes carrying out further clinical trials.
may be raised not only by our ongoing safety surveillance and In certain cases, it may be appropriate to stop clinical trials or to post-marketing studies but also by governmental agencies and withdraw the medicine from the market.
The Groups Global Safety third-parties that may analyse publicly available clinical trial results.
Board GSB, comprising senior physicians and representatives of supporting functions, is an integral component of the system.
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability The GSB including subsidiary boards dedicated to Consumer lawsuits, including class actions, that involve significant claims for Healthcare Products and Vaccines reviews the safety of damages related to our products.
Litigation, particularly in the US, is investigational and marketed products across the Group and has inherently unpredictable.
Class actions that seek to sweep together the authority to stop a clinical trial if continued conduct of such trial all persons who were prescribed our products increase the potential is not ethically or scientically justied in light of information that has liability.
Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages are emerged since the start of the trial.
frequently asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed, can represent potentially open-ended exposure and thus, could materially In addition to the medical governance framework within the Group and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
as described above, the Group uses several mechanisms to foster the early evaluation, mitigation, and resolution of disputes as they Mitigating activities arise and of potential claims even before they arise.
The goal of The Chief Medical officer CMO is responsible for medical the programmes is to create a culture of early identication and governance for the Group under a global policy.
Under that policy, evaluation of risks and claims actual or potential, in order to safeguarding human subjects in our clinical trials and patients who minimise liability and litigation.
take our products is of paramount importance, and the CMO has the authoritative role for evaluating and addressing matters of human safety.
