e c n a i l e c p n m a r u o : s t c : s 2 : h 3 4 a g l d l i l t e s e e RISK MANAGEMENT The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite and ensuring that appropriate risk management systems are in place The Board reviews the Groups principal risks throughout the How GKN manages risk year as part of its normal agenda, adopting an integrated approach to risk management by regularly discussing The Group has four levels of defence through which it manages principal risks.
In addition, in the middle and at the end of significant risks.
each year, the Board assesses the Groups principal risks through our enterprise risk management ERM programme Level 1: Risk ownership and control described opposite, taking the strength of the Groups Our businesses are responsible for maintaining an eective risk and control systems and our appetite for risk into account.
We have a risk matrix which ensures that, between the Board control environment as part of day-to-day operations under the direction of the Chief Executive and the Executive Committee.
This includes and its committees, all of the Groups principal risks are reviewed during the course of the year.
implementation and regular monitoring and review by divisional management of processes and controls which are designed to ensure The Board delegates responsibility for day-to-day risk compliance with the Boards appetite for risk, Group policies and delegated authority levels, and the GKN Code.
These front line controls management to the Executive Committee, including the identication, evaluation and monitoring of key risks facing are regularly updated to respond to the Groups changing risk prole.
the Group and the implementation of Group-wide risk management processes and controls.
The Executive Level 2: Monitoring and compliance Committee is supported in this by its Sub-Committee on Group functions monitor adherence to the procedures set out by the Governance and Risk.
Executive Committee and provide guidance to the businesses on their application.
This includes ongoing reviews by our health and safety audit The Audit & Risk Committee keeps the eectiveness of the team and Group IT and financial control functions.
Representatives of Groups risk management systems under review and reports these functions report their findings to the Executive Sub-Committee on to the Board on the results of its review.
The occurrence of Governance and Risk or directly to the Executive Committee.
The any material control issues, serious accidents or major Sub-Committee reports twice a year to the Executive Committee on commercial, financial or reputational issues, or the matters relating to the Groups governance, risk management and identication of new risks, are reported to the Board and or assurance framework, including areas of concern or proposals Audit & Risk Committee as appropriate.
In response to the changes in the UK Corporate Governance Level 3: Independent assurance Code, in 2014 we reviewed our approach to risk management at Board level and, in 2015, increased the level of oversight Independent assurance over the Groups risk management, control and for certain principal risks while continuing to strengthen the governance processes is provided by the Groups Corporate Audit team, independent assurance provided in respect of some risks.
the Head of Risk and external assurance providers.
While overall we are happy with our risk management processes, our philosophy, as in all areas of the business, is Level 4: Oversight one of continuous improvement.
The Board, Executive Committee and Audit & Risk Committee provide oversight and direction in accordance with their respective responsibilities, more information on which is set out in the governance section of this annual report.
Level 1: Risk ownership and control GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts r n v v n e e v v e e L a O L d e n L g e p n e i r d n o I t i n o M
