Strategic report RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES We have a formal risk management process which is designed to identify, assess and prioritise risks within the business, so that their impact on sustainable profitability is minimised and the group is able todeliver our business plans and strategic objectives, as well astomaximise shareholder returns.
The board retains ultimate responsibility for the groups risk management framework and reviews the groups principal risks on BOARD an annual basis.
The board has delegated responsibility for assurance Overall responsibility for risk and internal for the risk management process to the audit committee, which mitigationprocesses regularly reviews the risk management processes for each division and functional area.
The implementation of risk management and internal control systems is the responsibility of the executive directors and other senior management.
AUDIT COMMITTEE Each division and functional area is tasked with maintaining, Delegated responsibility for monitoring risk profile reviewing and regularly updating a risk register.
Classification andmitigation ofrisks takes into account the likelihood of their occurrence and the scale of potential impact both financial and reputational on Regularly reviews risk management process the business.
Each division and functional area is then responsible foreachdivision and functional area for evaluating current controls and drawing up plans to improve controls and manage new risks.
Progress of these risk implementation plans is monitored by senior management on a regular basis.
Inaddition, a group-wide risk committee reviews the individual risk registers in detail, monitors the risk mitigation plans and GROUP RISK SENIOR assists inthe production of the group risk register.
COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT Given that some risks are external and not fully within our control, Reviews individual Responsibility for the risk management processes are designed to manage risks which riskregisters and identification of risks, may have a material impact on our business, rather than to fully mitigationplans implementation of mitigate all risks.
mitigating actions and Ensures consistency of maintenance of business risk profiling across This section highlights some of the key risks and uncertainties unit and functional thegroup which affect Greene King, but it is not intended to be an exhaustive riskregisters analysis of all risks facing the business.
STRATEGIC RISKS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Reduced revenue, profitability Integration steering committee established to oversee integration, with agreed Integration of Spirit Pub andlower growth rates.
guidelines as to the aims of the integration.
Company and delivery ofanticipated synergies.
Retention arrangements in place for key staff.
Communication plan designed to keep all staff and other stakeholders informed of progress and changes impacting them.
Synergy targets established and systems are in place to record synergies captured.
Plans to deliver revenue synergies through rationalisation of brands and offers are being drawn up.
Reduced revenue, profitability Research conducted into consumer trends and plans developed to respond to key trends.
Failure to develop an appealing andlower growth rates.
customer offer including through Use of guest satisfaction tools and Net Promoter Scores to collect customer diversification, to identify feedback and measure performance of our pubs.
andrespond to fast-changing Greater investment in support and training for our employees to ensure service consumer tastes and to maintain standards meet consumer expectations.
Enhanced use of social media to communicate better with our customers andother consumers.
Diversification options kept under constant review.
28 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information ECONOMIC AND MARKET RISKS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Reduced revenue, profitability Focus on value, service and quality to appeal to a broad range of consumers.
Consumer confidence andlower growth rates.
intheUKand increasing Broad geographic spread of pubs including in London and the South-east.
Ongoing agreement innovation, training and support for our tenants.
Monitoring of competitor activity at strategic and tactical level.
OPERATIONAL AND PEOPLE RISKS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Loss of revenue and Tight controls in place to protect and enhance our reputation and brand values.
Brand damage caused by poor reputationaldamage.
service standards, food Staff training, mystery guest visits, product recall procedures and incident provenance issues or other escalation systems are in place.
Social media monitoring to facilitate responses to issues being raised online.
Supplier assurance programme ensures we are able to verify food provenance.
Third party audits on food take place regularly to ensure standards arebeingmaintained.
Potential impact on our ability Networks are protected by firewalls and anti-virus protection systems Risk of major systems failure, todobusiness, impacting revenue withbackup procedures also in place.
cyber security breach and andprofitability.
breach of the Payment Card Business continuity plan for critical business processes in place, Reputational damage and financial whichisregularly reviewed and tested.
Industry Data Security damage from fines or compensation.
Standard regarding customer We have systems in place to ensure compliance with the necessary payment card industry standards and keep these under regular review.
We have access to an off-site disaster recovery facility if required.
Constant monitoring of threats to data protection by viruses, hacking and breach of access controls, with additional controls added during the year.
Data governance committee drives improved behaviours and response management.
Inability to execute our business A branded recruitment plan is in place with a strong pipeline of suitable Risks associated with the plansand strategy.
candidates and we operate a range of apprenticeship programmes.
recruitment and retention anddevelopment of employees Potential impact on the profitability Remuneration packages are benchmarked to ensure that they remain competitive ofour Pub Partners business where and appropriate mechanisms are in place for managing pay progression.
the risks relate to licensees.
Career development programmes are in place to retain key employees and leadership training has been introduced for all levels of management.
Our annual employee engagement survey is used to obtain direct feedback from employees on a range of issues.
Exit interviews are conducted with all head office, Brewing & Brands and Retail managers to enable action plans to be developed to deal with key leaver reasons.
The range of tenancy agreements, training programmes and support available isdesigned to attract and retain the best quality licensees.
Supply disruption could impact Backup plans are maintained in the event of the failure by or loss of a key supplier.
Reliance on a number of key customer satisfaction.
suppliers and third party Detailed risk management and mitigation plans exist in our internal production distributors and on own ability Key supplier or distributor failure over and distribution activities, which are tested regularly across the business.
the longer term could reduce revenues to produce, package and Key suppliers are expected to maintain disaster recovery plans, which we review or lead to increased costs.
Annual report 2015 GREENE KING PLC 29 Strategic report RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED REGULATORY RISKS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Potentially reduces demand leading Use of price changes and promotions to encourage customers to drink responsibly, Risk of increased regulation, toreduced revenue and profitability.
and education of our customers to ensure that they understand the legislation.
and failure to respond to recent changes in regulation, in relation Monitoring of legislative developments and active engagement with Government where necessary.
to the sale or consumption of alcohol, including changes to Diversified offer to include soft drinks, coffee, food and accommodation to reduce our reliance on alcohol-based revenue.
drink driving laws, minimum pricing or other similar measures.
Serious illness, injury or even loss of Comprehensive range of formally documented policies and procedures in place, including Failure to comply with health life to one of our customers, employees centrally managed system of compliance KPI tracking and internal and independent andsafety legislation, including or tenants could have a significant audits to ensure compliance with current legislation and approved guidance.
inthe areas of food safety impact on our reputation, leading Health & safety policies reviewed by our primary authority partner, Reading andfire safety.
Borough Council, which has rated our safety management systems as very good.
Safety measures are in place to ensure that product integrity is maintained andthat all food and drink products are fully traceable.
Compliance programme in place to ensure pubs are safely handed over to new tenants.
The mandatory market rent only New, innovative agreements are being introduced to minimise the impact Compliance with the Pubs Code option to be introduced by the Pubs ofthePubs Code.
to be introduced under the Code, and the other provisions thereof, Arrangements to monitor compliance with the current voluntary code Small Business, Enterprise could increase costs for Pub Partners willcontinue under the new Pubs Code.
andEmployment Act 2015. including the risk of fines and reducerevenue.
FINANCIAL RISKS SPECIFIC RISK AREAS POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Reduced revenue, profitability The groups debt structures and financing requirements are kept under Inability to meet the andlower growth rates.
The group has a 460m bank facility to support activities outside the securitisation vehicles, which was entered into in July 2013 and is available until July 2018.
A breach of any financial covenants Long-term strategy and yearly business plans are formulated to ensure Liquidity and covenant risk applicable to the group would impact thatfinancial covenants can be met and monitored on a regular basis.
relating to the groups our ability to pay dividends or reinvest securitisation and other Working capital is carefully forecast, regularly reviewed by the finance teams cash, and impact our reputation andclosely managed.
Fraud being perpetrated against us.
Our systems of internal control, more details of which appear on page 45, include Failure to maintain sound robust controls, appropriately qualified staff, segregation of duties and authority systems of internal control to Damage to our reputation caused levels for expenditure and payments.
deal accurately with the large bynon-compliance with statutory obligations or a material mis-statement Appropriate advice is taken to ensure relevant statutory compliance and there numbers of transactions in the reported results of the company.
isregular board oversight of open tax positions and the groups tax policy.
undertaken by the business and ensure compliance with statutory obligations, including those relating to tax.
Increased deficit being recognised on All the schemes are now closed to future accrual to reduce volatility.
Funding requirements of our our balance sheet, and volatility of the defined benefit pension schemes, There is regular monitoring of the schemes investments and dialogue deficit makes longer-term planning which are subject to the risk withthetrustees on an ongoing basis regarding funding requirements.
ofchanges in life expectancy, actual and expected price inflation and investment yields.
30 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015
