26 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Risk management To achieve our objective of being the UKs leading PRS landlord we recognise that we must have a good understanding of the risks we face, those inherent in our strategy and operations and those posed by external conditions.
Our systematic and robust approach aims to continuously monitor those risks, our risk management and internal controls systems and evolve our management accordingly.
scored at both a Gross before mitigation Risk management approach Risk control assurance Good risk management is fundamental and Net after mitigation basis.
This allows The Grainger plc Board Risk and the business to identify those risks to our ability to meet our operational Compliance Committee BRCC is and strategic objectives.
The competitive which are heavily dependent on internal responsible for the Groups risk mitigating controls.
When forming this market in which we operate requires management framework.
It reviews the effective decision making: ensuring assessment the business considers strategic, Groups principal risks and ratifies the risk market, financial, operational, IT, project that the risks the business takes are appetite on the key risk areas of the risk adequately assessed and challenged and people risks.
framework set by the Executive.
The BRCC A risk scoring matrix is used to ensure and appropriate returns are achieved, is supported in the discharge of this whilst retaining our overall resilience to that a consistent approach is taken when responsibility by various committees, assessing the overall impact to the Group.
risks over which we have limited control specifically the Audit Committee which through our disaster recovery and business Likelihood is based on the frequency of focuses on the financial risk control.
occurrence in a rolling 12-month period continuity procedures.
The internal controls framework for these During the reporting period we have for risks arising within operational areas.
risks is monitored by the Audit Committee These risks, and their impact and likelihood continued to embed our risk management through the Internal Audit monitoring plan approach and our enhanced project scores, are documented in divisional, unit and the resulting audit outcomes.
The risk registers protocols and controls have entrenched.
Assurance on risk controls is currently We are now building a software solution are reviewed at least quarterly and more provided by internal management frequently, as required, and collated into to further facilitate our visibility and information, internal audits, external audits reporting of risks within projects and across a Group top risk report for the Executive and Board oversight.
There is also an Committee and the Board Risk and the business.
Our overall risk management ambition Compliance Committee.
Grainger has a separate Risk and remains to foster and embed a Principal risks and uncertainties culture of risk management that is Compliance function, headed by a Senior The Directors have undertaken a robust, Manager, reporting into an Executive responsive, forward looking, consistent systematic assessment of the Groups and accountable.
Committee member which leads and principal risks.
These have been considered manages the risk management framework within the timeframe of four years which and processes and provides compliance, aligns with our viability statement see Robust risk assessment policy and governance advice and support Our systematic risk management approach page 29. to the business.
The Group Risk and is designed to identify risks to the business Compliance Director provides appropriate using both a bottom up and a top down approach.
challenge and input to the risk findings, reported controls and Group top risk report Once identified, the impact and probability of risks are determined and and attends and reports to the Board Risk and Compliance Committee.
Strategic report Governance Financials 27 Table Of principal risks and uncerTainTies Risk or uncertainty Possible impact Risk appetite Management Market uncertainty may cause Graingers business Reducing reliance on trading income 1 Deterioration and or drop in housing demand: asset is based on taking Maintenance of capacity against banking covenants instability of wider and portfolio values fall: well-judged risk on Growth of non-HPI dependent income streams global European development risks increase: house price and and cash flows economic markets subsequent financial investment rentalinflation.
Portfolios weighted towards areas of higher growth leading to long-term constraints, unattractive to High proportion of liquid assets to enable sales flat or negative external investors and partners: where necessary growth in the value poor Shareholder returns: Proven ability during last economic downturn of assets.
inability to comply with banking of ability to continue sales covenants.
Geographically diverse portfolio Reduced or severely limited ability Grainger has no appetite Financial headroom maintained at appropriate levels 2 Lack of availability of to take advantage of business for low levels of available Appropriately qualified treasury, strategic capital and finance for the Group opportunities: unable to grow: finance or headroom legal teams to achieve its strategic unable to trade profitably: illiquidity.
below those prudently Positive relationship management with banks and objectives: inability to required to support the other sources obtain sufficient funds business.
Ability to control the timing and quantum of new to implement the acquisitions to reduce cash outflows current business plan Historically proven cash generation ability throughout and strategy either the economic cycle through debt or equity, Simplification of business model makes financing at appropriate price more straightforward and terms.
3 Failure to meet current Fines, penalties and sanctions: Grainger has no appetite On-going management and staff training damage to reputation: loss for legal and regulatory Specialist legal, compliance and corporate affairs or increased legal or of operational efficiency and breach due to the risks teams who monitor and advise internally and review regulatory obligations increased costs: reduction in this poses to its staff, legislative, regulatory and consultation papers or anticipate and market opportunities: impact on customers, assets and Use of external specialists to advise and maintain respond to changes ability to finance opportunities: reputation.
forward focus in legislation or additional up-front cost Active networking with key policy influencers and regulation that creates implications of building new relevant industry groups who lobby government and increased and costly systems and approach to meet policy makers obligations.
Whistleblowing facility Reduced ability to deliver We have no appetite Succession plans are regularly reviewed 4 Failure to attract, business plan and strategy: to accept a lack of Management and Leadership Development Training retain and develop our mismanagement: reduced control: appropriate skills, Retention policies in place for key staff people to ensure we inability to grow market share of expertise and experience Annual benchmarking of reward have the right skills in PRS: failure to innovate and evolve such as would materially Regular staff surveys the right place at the to maintain competitiveness in a diminish our ability to Performance reviews and appraisals right time to deliver customer driven market.
deliver our strategy and Look for opportunities to develop and provide career our strategy.
development and opportunities internally 28 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report RISK MANAGEMENT Continued Risk or uncertainty Possible impact Risk appetite Management Increased costs: inability to We utilise a significant Established internal controls and management 5 A significant failure deliver performance objectives range of third-party systems and with regard tothird-party contractor within or by a key to satisfaction of stakeholders: services and so recognise supplier base third-party supplier possible legal action and regulatory that we carry an inherent Established three lines of defence modelto facilitate orcontractor.
risk of some kind of stronger monitoring and controls unforeseen failure.
see further information in Future Developments However, through section on page 29 management and control we seek to minimise this risk.
6 A significant Health Harm to customers, tenants, Grainger has no appetite Specific internal management systems forHealth employees, contractors or visitors: for Health and Safety andSafety and Safety incident as possible legal action and or fine: breaches both within Established three lines of defence modelto facilitate a result of inadequate subsequent reputational damage.
its own operations and stronger monitoring and controls or inappropriately those of its third-party Specialist Health and Safety Director and team implemented Health contractors.
responsible for oversight ofcompliance and Safety procedures Regular reporting to the ExecutiveCommittee and controls within Grainger.
Graingers underlying control We accept that problems 7 Failure of supporting Standard controls and processes across the business environment does not support the may occur.
However, all supported by our core systems control environment.
efficient operation of the business such problems should Use of external specialist advisers whererequired and does not support the control be contained within Operation of standardised project management framework leading to increased an effective control framework costs: risk of regulatory action: framework.
Our focus Implementation of three lines of defence inability to report on performance is on continuously responsibilities to the satisfaction of stakeholders: improving this Active Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery reputational damage.
framework on a standard inplace three lines ofdefence Audit and Board Risk and Compliance Committee model.
oversight Acquisition of unprofitable Graingers business Experienced team assembled to focus on winning 8 Failure to implement schemes will depress Group is based on taking and delivering PRS acquisitions including build-toPRS strategy due returns.
Lack of competiveness well-judged risk for rent schemes and subsequent management of to failure to acquire in acquiring schemes will lead appropriate returns in suchassets assets on acceptable to failure to deliver strategy and the acquisition, delivery Close review by Executive Committee and Board terms and or failure reduction in scale and profitability and management of Use of external professionals where appropriate to integrate PRS of business.
assets efficiently in the management platform.
9 Excessive capital Exposure to risk of cost overrun Part of Graingers returns Capital allocated to development is capped income shortfall on schemes are based on well-judged Specific teams responsible with specialist skills allocated to activities developed for sale or rent.
capital allocation which development and PRS teams which carry includes such activities.
Review and sign-off of all such schemes by the development risk.
Executive Committee and the main Board as appropriate Future schemes will focus on delivering build-to-rent so reducing risk of sales risks Strategic report Governance Financials 29 There have been no significant failings in Specifically, the Board has reviewed its Future developments our controls within the reporting period.
four-year business planning period to 2019 In the forthcoming year we plan to Refer to the Audit Committee and Board in more detail.
The Board believes that refine our risk appetite statements and Risk and Compliance Committee reports a viability assessment period to 2019 is measurement of risk to further improve within the Governance section for details of appropriate as this timeframe aligns with our risk management.
We will also be all matters discussed in the year.
the Groups budget planning horizon.
building on the work we have done We continuously review and refine the The budget has been stress tested against in the current year to incorporate the identification and design of our material severe and prolonged reductions in house UK Corporate Governance Code areas controls to ensure they are appropriate prices.
Two different scenarios were of impact of business model, future to the business strategy, associated risks modelled to stress-test the business model.
performance, operational performance, and risk appetite of the Group.
We plan First an aggressive but short-term house solvency and liquidity into our strategic risk to move towards a balanced business price crash with a slow return to growth impact assessments.
scorecard of KPI measures which will thereafter and secondly a continuing The Group is evolving to a three lines be reported via a newly developed slow decline in house prices.
The testing of defence model of assurance where internal dashboard.
incorporated the use of mitigating operational management provide the first actions available to the business, such line, the Risk and Compliance, Legal and Viability statement as a reduction in acquisition spend and Health and Safety teams provide second Taking into account the Groups current accelerated sales.
line and Internal audit the third line of position and its principal risks as above, The first scenario modelled a short term defence.
This additional second line, or the Directors have assessed the Groups crash, greater in both severity and duration layer, of monitoring will, over time, increase prospects and viability.
than the correction experienced in 2008 the level of evidence and visibility of the The Groups business model has proven 9.
The valuation assumptions used in this effectiveness of the day-to-day operations to be strong and defensive in the long analysis were for two full years 8 quarters of the business.
This will provide further term and it has consistently demonstrated of decreasing prices, with year on year falls opportunities to strengthen and improve its ability to sell assets, even in challenging of 15% p. a. a total decline of c. 27.5%.
our business, helping to ensure that we market conditions.
From 2006 to 2015 There then follows one subsequent are positioned to deliver a competitive, the gross cash generation has never been year where 0% growth is forecast and consistent, quality service and product to less than 240m per annum and has one further year at 5% annual growth.
averaged c. 296m with a peak of 430m.
The second scenario modelled a long As stated we are also developing a Currently the Group directly owns 2.2bn term decline in house prices of 2.0% p. a. software solution to provide: of residential property assets which are over the life of the model with no recovery.
an enhanced tool for use by managers to relatively liquid, as has been proved in the Based on the results of this analysis, the monitor their risks: past.
The Group would remain viable even Directors have a reasonable expectation better, live data reporting across the in the event of very severe and sustained that the Group will be able to continue in Group: and house price deflation as it would be able operation and meet its liabilities as they an integrated tool for risk reporting to accelerate the natural conversion of our fall due over the four-year period of their and risk related actions arising from our assets to cash and suspend acquisition detailed assessment.
Only an unprecedented and long-term lack of liquidity in UK residential property markets would cause any threat to the Group.
