Risk Management and Internal Controls Internal control The Groups treasury and hedging policy is kept under review to The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has adopted ensure that appropriate accounting and banking arrangements are aschedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for aligned with the Groups growth and to ensure continued compliance decision.
This procedure is intended to ensure that the Directors with accounting requirements.
maintain full and effective control over all significant strategic, The internal audit function has operated independently since 2004, financialand organisational issues.
reporting to the Audit Committee.
In 2008 09, a dedicated Internal Audit manager was added to support the function and during 2010 11 During the year, actions to strengthen the control environment an internal auditor based in China was recruited.
A further review of continue to be taken centrally by Group management, not least resources occurred more recently resulting in the appointment of a withthe sector structure providing additional, dedicated personnel US-based internal auditor.
Internal audit procedures are routinely who supplement and reinforce our controls and the culture in benchmarked and evolve to reflect changing circumstances and whichwe operate.
The duties and responsibilities of subsidiary specific requirements and to enhance effectiveness.
management are continually refreshed as well as documented inamanual circulated to all subsidiary managing directors and Group risk is mitigated by means of an operating structure which available on our collaboration platform.
Acomprehensive induction spreads the Groups activities across a number of autonomous programme for subsidiary finance directors was launched three subsidiary companies.
Each of these companies is overseen by yearsago and our internal financial review procedures have been sector executives and led by a high-quality board of directors refreshed.
Westrengthened the resources dedicated to identifying including a finance executive.
and investigating potential acquisitions and the policies to ensure a rapid and successful integration following acquisition.
The scope of Steps are being taken to embed internal control and risk the Groups policies and the programme of compliance audits are management further into the operations of the business and to regularly reviewed to ensure they are sufficient to address current dealwith areas of improvement which come to managements risks.
The Group placed additional emphasis on updating our andthe Boards attention.
business continuity plans over recent years ensuring that they Group companies operate under a system of controls which includes aremutually complementary to our insurance programme.
but is not limited to: Group internal control system The processes which the Board has applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control are summarised below: operating companies, with the oversight of their sector boards, carry out a detailed risk assessment each year and identify mitigating actions in place or proposed for each significant risk.
A risk register is compiled from this information, against which operational risk action is monitored through to resolution and strategic risks are reported to the Group.
Group management also compiles a summary of significant Group risks, documenting existing or planned actions to mitigate, manage or avoid risks: each month the board of every operating company meets, discusses and reports on its operating performance, its opportunities, the risks facing it and the resultant actions.
The relevant Sector Chief Executive or Sector Vice President chairs this meeting and he meets regularly with the Chief Executive and Finance Director and reports on sectoral progress to the Executive Board: financial and trading warning signs are reported to Group and sector management.
Weekly data on cash management and sales and orders are also reported directly to the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Group finance team.
This framework is designed to provide an early warning of potential risks and to direct appropriate action where necessary: the Chief Executive submits a report to each Halma plc Board meeting which includes the main features of Group operations and an analysis of the significant risks and opportunities facing the Group.
The papers also cover progress against strategic objectives and shareholder-related issues.
The Finance Director also submits aseparate financial report to each Halma plc Board meeting: regular Director visits to Group companies are scheduled and open access to the subsidiary company boards is encouraged: cyclical and risk-based internal control visits are carried out by internal audit or senior finance staff resulting in actions being fed back to each company and followed up by Senior Finance Executives and Sector Chief Executives.
Reviews are coded in terms of risk and a summary of all such reviews is given to the Audit Committee, with any significant control failings being reported directly to the Audit Committee: senior finance staff also conduct financial reviews at each operating company before publication of half-year and year-end figures.
We have a Group-wide IT policy supported by a programme of IT health checks.
Group IT manages aspects of our cyber security risks and IT development needs: and the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Internal Audit function report to the Audit Committee on all aspects ofinternal control.
The Board receives regular reports from the Audit Committee Chairman and the papers and minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are used as a basis for its annual review of internal control.
26 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements a defined organisational structure with an appropriate delegation self-certification by operating company and sector management ofauthority to operational management which ensures appropriate ofcompliance and control issues with additional verification segregation of key duties: performed centrally: the identification and appraisal of risks both formally, through the a robust structure for electronic communication and conducting annual process of preparing business plans and budgets, through e-commerce to ensure that the Group is not adversely impacted by an annual detailed risk assessment carried out at local level and threats to its information technology infrastructure and to minimise informally through close monitoring of operations: potential for business disruptions.
The Group has a wide range of measures and policies and a framework in place which includes a a comprehensive financial reporting system, regularly enhanced, virtual private network covering over 100 sites worldwide, secure within which actual and forecast results are compared with approved firewalls, an IT security and threat monitoring system, information budgets and the previous years figures on a monthly basis.
Weekly management audits, disaster recovery and a mobile devices cash sales orders reporting including details of financial institutions is management system: and also maintained within the financial reporting system, all of which is reviewed at both local, sector and Group level: an acquisitions and disposals framework which governs the due diligence, negotiation, approval and integration processes to ensure an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate level that value-enhancing, quality investments are made in order to of approval for all capital expenditure and other capitalised costs: meet our strategic objectives.
Group risk management Board Operational Compliance Chief Executive Audit Committee Executive Board Company Secretary Sector Boards Internal Audit Subsidiary Company Boards Senior Finance Executives Whistleblowing The diagram below summarises our complementary integrated approach to risk management which is consistent with the Groups structure.
Halma has also refined the timings of the Group-wide risk assessment as well as the division of responsibility for the risk review cycle throughout the year.
Top Down Bottom Up Strategic Risk Management Operational Risk Management assessment of the effectiveness of risk management review and management of the strategic risks of the systems across the Group: and Group with visibility of the sector risks: reporting principal risks and uncertainties in the Group.
consideration of the environment in which the Group Board and operates: and Audit setting the risk appetite of the Group.
Committee delivery of Group strategic actions: and reviewing completeness and consistency across the monitoring Group key risk indicators.
sectors and adequacy of mitigation actions: Executive consideration of the aggregation of risk exposures across Board and the businesses: and Senior review management consolidation of operational risks Finance both sector and business unit, delegated as the Sector Executives Chief Executive deems appropriate.
execution of any Grouplevel strategic actions: reporting of significant and emerging risks to the Group: andreporting on any identified key risks and identification, evaluation, prioritisation, mitigation mitigationprogress.
andmonitoring of operational risks which are the Subsidiary responsibility of each subsidiary company: and Companies identification of strategic risks which are reported totheGroup.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27
