E M T A I T U I L G A A V T E E STRATEGIC REPORT RISK RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 700,000 NEW DRIVERS EACH YEAR 00% #1 KEY FACT UK CYCLE RETAILER Like all businesses, our Group faces risks and manager sponsor involvement.
The risk register is uncertainties that could impact the achievement monitored and updated with current and ongoing of the Groups strategy.
These risks are accepted mitigation on a regular basis.
as being a part of doing business.
The Board Mindful of corporate strategy, executive recognises that the nature and scope of these risks management and the Board consider the risks can change and so regularly reviews them as well reported within the risk register and review and as the systems and processes to mitigate them.
monitor new risks and all mitigating actions to The Corporate Governance report on pages 42 ensure that the Groups appetite for risk is not to 49 describes the systems and internal control exceeded.
The Board recognises that each of processes through which the Directors identify, its strategic pillars i. e. Supporting Drivers of assess, manage and mitigate risks.
Every Car, Inspiring Cyclists of Every Age, and Equipping Families for their Leisure Time could Senior management colleagues assess risks on a be compromised by any of the risks set out  basis using a variety below.
Individual Getting Into Gear initiatives are of techniques to identify risk.
The likelihood and reliant on some of the mitigations identified.
For impact of these risks are considered and scored example Service Revolution delivery is reliant on against a recognised framework dependent upon full utilisation of our online training system and on their effect on the achievement of our corporate our ability to attract and retain good colleagues.
Responsibility for taking the necessary Stores Fit to Shop is reliant on our continuing actions to manage risk is delegated to appropriate investment in modernisation of our stores.
colleagues in the business, with executive Our risk management process Getting Into Gear 32 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 Y A F N I T A N L Y E S D E I STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION RISK The Group has discussed its risk register with its insurance broker and ensures that it has cover to help to mitigate significant risks where practicable and costeffective.
Specific financial risks e. g. liquidity, foreign currency are detailed in note 20 to the Annual Report and Accounts on pages 99 to 102.
Key Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Economic, Environmental and Political The economy is a major influence on consumer spending.
Trends in The Group mitigates these risks by maintaining a focus on the defensive employment, inflation, taxation, consumer debt levels, weather and characteristics of its needs driven product groups.
A firm focus is interest rates impact consumer expenditure in discretionary areas.
Targeted promotions and excellent service are Changes in Government policies e. g. Cycle to Work may also affect our designed to attract and retain customers.
We ensure that marketing and customers ability to benefit from our products and services.
merchandising can be revised quickly to react to weather conditions.
We also ensure that we have representation with Governmental decisionmakers in the areas supporting our core categories.
Business Strategy The aim of the Groups business strategy is to deliver long-term value to The Group has its established three pillars strategy.
The Board understands that if the strategy and vision plan Getting Into Gear is being executed.
Strategic issues, including are inappropriately formulated, communicated, or executed then the the three-year plan, are regularly reviewed at Board meetings.
assessment is made to ensure that strategy remains appropriate, and that the business is making progress in meeting its strategic objectives.
The Autocentres and Cycle Republic businesses could fail to meet growth KPIs relating to strategy have been communicated clearly, both within expectations.
the business and to the market.
These KPIs are regularly discussed by the Board.
Our budget process recognises the importance of strategic initiatives.
Autocentres and Cycle Republic have dedicated, experienced management teams supported by appropriate infrastructure and allocated resources.
The performances of both businesses are closely monitored by the Board.
Competition The retail industry is highly competitive and dynamic.
The Group The Board is aware of the risks faced from UK retailers both in-store competes with a wide variety of retailers of varying sizes and faces and online, and from the national car-servicing networks and smaller competition from UK retailers, in both stores and online, as well as independents.
The car servicing market is a service-based We have a significant investment programme to support Getting Into market with a number of different-sized providers where trust is extremely Gear.
The investment programme is allowing us to improve the service important to customers.
Failure to compete with competitors on areas we provide to customers by improving the quality of our stores, IT including price, product range, quality, service and trustworthiness could infrastructure, training and website including optimisation for mobile and have an adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
Excellent service is fundamental to differentiating ourselves from our competitors.
The national geographical coverage of our stores underpins our Click & Collect offering.
Our wefit service is a key differentiator.
Our Cycle Repair and extended Parts, Accessories and Clothing range offer confirm our credibility within the Cycling market.
The Group seeks to continually strengthen its own-brand retail offer and develop opportunities to differentiate the Halfords brand, including TV, radio, press and social media advertising.
Our Autocentres business continually seeks to provide innovative solutions for their customers, such as brakes4life.
com 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Key Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Compliance The Group operates in an environment governed by legislation and codes Regulatory requirements are closely monitored by our Company Secretarial in areas including, but not limited to, listing rules, trading standards, team which includes colleagues with relevant professional qualifications advertising, product quality, health and safety, hazardous substances, and experience.
The Group has Quality Assurance and Compliance teams bribery act and data protection.
working in both the Retail and Autocentres businesses.
Specialist Health and Safety teams ensure that the Group has adequate policies and risk The Group recognises that failure to comply with ethical standards could assessments.
Retail margin erosions are minimised by a dedicated profit expose the business to reputational risk and loss of goodwill.
Colleagues and management are trained to identify and handle in-store regulatory issues using Gears training modules on our online Learning Management System.
We have a whistleblowing hotline that allows colleagues to raise concerns in confidence.
We operate a Code of Conduct that clearly sets out our expectations of suppliers.
We have a corporate delegated authorities framework How We Do Business setting out key authorisation levels.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption training has been delivered through face-to-face and online training sessions.
The Group has a dedicated investor relations team which ensures that there is frequent and appropriate communication with investors and the wider financial community.
The Group has a dedicated corporate social responsibility resource, which calls upon cross-functional support as required.
The Group has a comprehensive record of community engagement through events such as childrens bike workshops, and support of the Re-Cycle charity Supply Chain Disruption Halfords sources a significant proportion of the merchandise it sells Extensive research is conducted into quality and ethics before the Group in its stores from outside of the UK, either directly or via third-party procures products from any new country or supplier.
Consequently, the Group is subject to the risks associated with management team in the Far East blends expatriate and local colleagues.
international trade particularly those which are common in the import of It understands the local culture, market regulations and risks and we goods from developing countries including, but not limited to, inflation, maintain very close relationships with both our suppliers and shippers to currency fluctuation, the imposition of taxes or other charges on imports, ensure that disruption to production and supply are managed appropriately.
the exposure to different legal standards, the burden of complying with We work with suppliers in a number of territories to reduce the risks of a variety of foreign laws and changing foreign government policies and disruption.
We maintain firm security and protection measures at our distribution The Group could also be impacted in the event of disruption to domestic centres.
We have business continuity plans to manage any incidents logistic arrangements: for example, unavailability of distribution centres or that may occur.
Our logistics are overseen by an experienced, dedicated road transport problems.
warehouse and logistics team who maintain contacts with a range of logistics businesses who could be utilised if necessary.
Getting Into Gear 34 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION RISK Key Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Product and Service Quality and Brand Reputation The Board recognises that the quality and safety of both our products The Group constantly seeks to enhance its position as the store or centre and services in our stores and autocentres are of critical importance and of first choice in each of the markets that it serves.
that any major failure will affect consumer confidence and our reputation.
Our Gears training programme uses online modules to ensure that Failure to protect the Groups reputation and brand could lead to a loss of colleagues are consistently knowledgeable about our products and able trust and confidence.
This could result in a decline in the customer base to deliver quality services to customers.
This online training is reinforced and affect the ability to recruit and retain good people.
There is also the by face-to-face learning and assessments.
Stores use an accreditation risk that our service proposition fails due to inconsistent levels of service matrix to ensure that all building and fitting is undertaken by competent at individual stores and individual centres.
Product knowledge among colleagues is promoted through specialist conferences for selected staff e. g. BikeHut managers.
We have also implemented measures to ensure that we attract and retain the best colleagues: engagement surveys aim to identify opportunities to reduce colleague turnover: we have again been recognised as one of the Sunday Times 25 Best Big Companies to Work For: our recruitment processes are now centralised to improve efficiency and consistency.
Our products are risk assessed and rigorously tested for quality and safety by qualified engineers in our dedicated quality team.
We monitor customer comments and complaints and, when necessary, we have established recall processes.
Our autocentres utilise a comprehensive quality assurance process with checks by centre managers.
Technicians are regularly checked to ensure quality of workmanship, and the priority status allocated to individual jobs is reviewed to ensure safety and prevent overselling.
There is a dedicated Operations Quality team.
Information Technology IT Systems and Infrastructure In common with most businesses, Halfords is dependent on the reliability Extensive controls are in place to maintain the integrity of our systems and and suitability of a number of important IT systems where any sustained to ensure that systems changes are implemented in a controlled manner.
performance problems including those caused by cyber attack could Halfords key trading systems are hosted within a secure data centre potentially compromise our operational capability for a period of time operated by a specialist company remote from our support centre.
These impacting on stores, centres or warehouse, multi-channel and distribution systems are also supported by a number of disaster recovery arrangements systems.
With ambitious growth plans for our multi-channel offer, our including a comprehensive backup strategy, and a hotlink secure data trading capacity could be affected by internal and external systems centre hosted in a different location.
IT recovery processes are tested resilience and interdependencies.
We have successfully completed an upgrade of our core SAP system.
Commercial data could be lost or stolen through cyber attack, sabotage, or other security breaches.
We have recently thoroughly reviewed our IT security processes and risk assessments and recruited a number of specialists to the IT team, including dedicated IT security and continuity experts.
We utilise appropriate firewalls, physical and logical system access controls.
We have undertaken network penetration testing.
Dependence on Key Management Personnel The success of the Groups business depends upon its senior Our remuneration policy outlined on page 58 details the strategies in management closely supervising all aspects of its business, in particular, place to ensure that high calibre executives are attracted and retained.
the operation of the stores and autocentres, including the appropriate The Group looks to improve its senior manager cadre through operating a training of in-store and centre colleagues, and the design, procurement talent management process to help individuals achieve their full potential and allocation of merchandise.
within Halfords and to ensure that appropriate succession plans are in place to meet the future needs of the business.
At a junior level, the Group continues to invest in graduate programmes and store and centre colleague training and development.
com 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CYCLE EVENT SUPPORT Halfords has also again been confirmed as the Official Mechanics Partner for the 2015 Sky Ride Big Bike series, spanning 15 events nationwide and supporting over 100,000 cyclists this summer.
These free one-day events offer cyclists of all ages and abilities the chance to ride their bike on traffic-free streets or on cycle paths and parks in the heart of towns and cities across Britain.
Halfords cycle mechanics will be a key part of the day, keeping cyclists on the move by assisting with essential adjustments, cabling and tube replacements.
In addition to the Sky Rides Halfords will also be providing mechanical support at many more events including Mitie London Revolution, Deloitte Ride Across Britain, and Women V Cancer Ride The Night.
SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS SCHOOL DONATIONS In November 2014, Halfords announced a new scheme to donate cycling equipment to primary schools in disadvantaged areas.
In its first year, the new scheme will donate childrens bikes and new bike helmets to schools in the eight cycling cities of Manchester, Leeds, Birmingham, Newcastle, Bristol, Cambridge, Oxford and Norwich.
Schools are invited to apply at www.
The bikes are collected from the trade-in events held at Halfords stores and reconditioned by trainees at the Cycle Repair Academy in Onley Prison.
23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 OUR GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 38 Directors Report 39 Corporate Governance Report 42 Nomination Committee Report 50 Audit Committee Report 52 Remuneration Committee Report 56 IMAGE PLACEMENT 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015
