STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS MANAGEMENT & CONTROL RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIONS TO MITIGATE RISK CYCLICAL NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS The performance of the Group is The Group has diversified its operations The Groups cost base is highly variable significantly impacted by changes to include a balance of both temporary and iscarefully managed to align with to underlying economic activity, and permanent placement recruitment business activity.
particularly in the UK, Germany services to private and public sector The Group has ensured that net debt has and Australia.
markets, and operates across 33 countries been kept at a low and manageable level.
Progress is The Group is highly cash generative, requiring being made to further diversify the low levels of asset investment.
Cash collection business to reduce somewhat the Groups is a key priority and the Group has made reliance on the UK, Germany and Australia.
appropriate investment in its credit control The acquisition of Veredus Corp. is an and working capital management processes.
important development in this regard.
BUSINESS MODEL The Group faces competition from We have leveraged our broad media and insourcing, and continue to invest the increasing use of social media for geographical and sectoral footprint to in our online presence to provide a highrecruitment purposes and a growing win and maintain a significant number quality customer experience.
An in-house trend towards outsourced recruitment of multispecialism contracts with large innovation team, reporting to the Chief models with associated margin pressures.
This has Executive, continually assess the market to strengthened our relationship with these identify opportunities and developments.
clients and increased our share of their Our strategic relationships, e. g. with LinkedIn, recruitment spend.
increase our exposure to online professional We monitor changes in the market in networking and recruitment portals on a terms of industry trends including social global basis.
TALENT The Group is reliant on its ability to recruit, We provide sustainable career We continue to ensure that overall remuneration train, develop and retain staff to deliver its development paths for new recruits, packages are competitive.
These include growth plans internationally.
starting with a structured induction a long-term incentive scheme, which is programme and ongoing training as offered to some 320 senior managers and they progress their careers at Hays.
Development centres focus on the Annual succession plans are undertaken at progress of high-potential individuals, Board and Management Board levels and providing further development across all regions to identify future potential opportunities but also helping to leaders of the business and produce identify any talent gaps.
We continue to invest in our leadership and development programmes, which are aligned with the Groups business strategy.
34|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIONS TO MITIGATE RISK COMPLIANCE Increased legislation and regulations All new fee-earning employees receive compliance updates are understood and specific to certain business sectors and training in respect of the relevant applied.
In territories where legislation sets for temporary workers, in particular, operating standards applicable to their out additional compliance requirements, necessitate pre-assignment checks, recruitment role, with additional support specialists are employed.
An example which may increase the Groups provided by compliance functions.
of this is in occupational health and safety exposure to potential legal, financial in Australia.
Compliance processes and monitoring are and reputational risk.
tailored to specific specialisms, ensuring Dedicated compliance auditors conduct spot additional focus is given to our high-risk checks on candidate records to ensure that specialisms such as Education and the appropriate candidate vetting checks and Healthcare in the UK.
due diligence obligations are carried out in line with legal and contractual requirements.
Operational and support staff receive regular training to ensure that legal and RELIANCE ON TECHNOLOGY Our dependence on technology in our The Groups technology strategy is Technology systems are housed in various day-to-day business means that systems regularly reviewed to ensure that the data centres and the Group has capacity to failure and loss of data would have a high systems it operates across the Group cope with a data centres loss through the impact on our operations.
establishment of disaster recovery sites that are physically based in separate locations to Ongoing asset lifecycle management the ongoing operations.
programmes mitigate risks of hardware obsolescence.
DATA GOVERNANCE The Group works with confidential Robust procedures for handling, storing protective email monitoring programmes personal data in 33 countries on a and transfer of confidential personal data are undertaken to address potential areas daily basis under a variety of laws and are in place across the Group.
of concern, to best protect our confidential regulations.
A material data breach information and candidates personal data Data protection and information security would expose the Group to potential and to best mitigate the risks of cyber crime.
policies and procedures are also in place legal, financial and reputational risk.
across the Group and, where data protection and privacy legislation allows, CONTRACTS The Group enters into contractual During contract negotiations management non-standard terms in accordance with arrangements with clients, some seeks to minimise risk and ensure that the the Groups risk appetite.
of which can be on onerous terms.
nature of risks and their potential impact Reviews are performed on a risk basis is understood.
across key contracts to identify and agree Our global legal team has the depth improvements to the way in which we of knowledge and experience to enable deliver services to clients.
them to advise management on the Assurance work is undertaken in key level of risk presented in increasingly countries by Internal Audit to ensure onerous contracts.
appropriate management of key The Group Finance Director reviews contractual obligations.
all commercial contracts with onerous FOREIGN EXCHANGE The Group has significant operations Profits from Euro-based markets outside the UK and is therefore exposed and Australia are a material proportion to foreign exchange translation risk.
There is no active management of foreign exchange translation risk: however, it is actively monitored and its impact on our business disclosed to investors so it is fully understood.
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|35
