Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties Howdens operates in an environment that includes different types of risk.
Our approach to risk is adaptive, and is designed to 19 ensure that we are protecting what we have while also responding to opportunities to grow and create value.
OUR APPROACH TO RISK Howdens operating model of an in-stock business, with dedicated supply systems, supportive suppliers and loyal, committed staff who understand the business ethos of service and help for other people underpins the need to protect what we have worked hard to create.
The numbers tell a compelling story, future opportunities are apparent and the marketplace is evolving.
Our approach to risk reflects both the success of the business and its prospects.
Opportunity risk is managed closely and depends on our ability to understand and manage the key drivers of success and maintain the delicate balance between them.
To support this, our approach considers both short and long term risks within a timeframe of up to three years.
Our local builders rely on us to support their needs.
They expect us to be flexible so that they can meet the ever-changing needs of their customers.
A culture of personal integrity, stock availability, business resilience and excellent levels of customer service are all strategically important factors that we take into account in the risk management process embedded across the Group.
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Operations Risk Department Executive Committee The Board Top-down Monitoring Setting risk identification risks risk appetite Risk Universe Facilitate identification OPERATIONAL KEY RISK REGISTER of key risks RISK REGISTERS Review key risks Independent appraisal Identify principal risks Review net risk score Bottom-up Assessing risk identification risk tolerances Our risk management process reflects the Groups business model of decentralised local autonomy, and it benefits from the openness and honesty of our culture.
Each division identifies risks through both bottom-up and top-down risk identification processes.
Risks are reviewed quarterly by the senior management team in each division.
The risk management process looks at each potential risk to the divisions objectives, assigning probability and impact scores in the absence of any mitigating controls.
This results in a gross risk score.
The next step involves identifying the mitigating controls already in place within the business to manage risks.
Once these controls have been considered, risk scores are reassessed and we arrive at a net risk score for each risk.
If the net risk score is considered to be above our level of appetite for that risk, as determined by the Board, we implement further mitigation to reduce the score to a tolerable level.
A Key Risk Register is produced, prioritised by net risk scores.
This is reviewed by the Executive Committee every quarter, together with qualitative summaries of any significant changes to the risk profile.
The outcome of this review is then fed back to the divisions for consideration of any changes.
In addition to these key risks, other risks that have the highest gross scores but which have been mitigated, via a robust system of controls, to a tolerable net score are reported to the Executive Committee and Board.
This helps the business to monitor those risks where we have the greatest reliance on the controls in place to manage them.
As a result of these additional risks being reviewed by the Executive Committee and Board, key risks with a high gross score but low net score have been agreed as new principal risks Cyber Security Incident and Credit Control Failure.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued During the year increased emphasis has been placed on the quality of risk reporting to the Executive Committee and the Board, 20 with greater focus on principal risks, ensuring clear visibility of the full risk profile of the business.
The Audit Committee conducts an annual review of the entire process to help confirm that our risk management approach is monitoring risk appropriately and that risk appetite is being set at the right level.
Ultimately, risk is the responsibility of the Board, and therefore key risks are formally considered by the Board every six months.
As part of this process the Board reviews the key risks and identifies the principal risks.
To that end, the Directors confirm they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its buisness model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
PRINCIPAL RISKS Below we describe our principal risks and what we do to mitigate them.
The table summarises the nature of the risks and the risk trend, which indicates how gross risk has changed over the year.
Principal risk Gross risk trend in 2015 Changes in market conditions No change Deterioration of business model and culture No change Failure to maximise growth potential of the business No change Interruption to continuity of supply No change Loss of key personnel No change Credit control failure NEW No change Cyber security incident NEW Increased Principal risk can have a serious impact on the position, performance, development and prospects of the Group.
CHANGES IN MARKET CONDITIONS Description, impact and link to strategy The Groups products are sold from stock to local builders, most of whom run small businesses, for installation in public and private housing, mainly in the repair, maintenance and improvement markets.
The Groups results are consequently dependent on levels of activity in these markets, which are affected by many factors including general economic conditions, consumer confidence, interest rates and credit availability, unemployment, demographic trends and, in the short term, weather.
A change in market conditions could affect our ability to achieve our sales and profit forecasts, which in turn could put pressure on our cash availability and banking covenants.
On the other hand changed market conditions could also provide opportunities to exploit new markets and create value.
Whilst there was no reported change to the gross risk trend in relation to change in market conditions during 2015, we anticipate that the increased uncertainty in global markets observed this year may cause this particular gross risk to increase in 2016.
Mitigating factors We monitor and identify key market drivers and trends as well as maintaining close relationships with customers who may give an early warning of slowing demand.
We can take swift management action to change cost levels and inventory in a measured way to mitigate the effects of a change in market conditions, consequently helping to ensure that we have sufficient cash and borrowing facilities for business needs and adequate covenant headroom.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 DETERIORATION OF BUSINESS MODEL AND CULTURE 21 Description, impact and link to strategy The future success of the business depends on the successful implementation of the Groups business model and on its locally-enabled, entrepreneurial culture.
Our local managers provide excellent service to local business people who trust us to support them, and to local communities who rely on us to behave responsibly.
If the Group fails to implement its business model in the locally-enabled, decentralised manner envisaged, there may be an adverse impact on the Groups future financial condition and profitability.
Mitigating factors The business model and Howdens culture are at the centre of the Groups activities and the decision-making processes, led by the actions of the Board and Executive Committee.
The Executive and senior management teams regularly visit our depots and factories and hold frequent events at which they reinforce the importance of the Groups business model and culture.
Throughout the business, successful implementation of the Howdens business model and culture forms the basis of the incentive structure.
FAILURE TO MAXIMISE THE GROWTH POTENTIAL OF THE BUSINESS Description, impact and link to strategy Customers changing expectations and demands, new market opportunities, the extent and configuration of the depot network and the performance of existing depots all present Howdens with significant opportunities for growth.
Failure to recognise, understand and exploit the potential these offer, in line with our business model and risk appetite, or failure to align current structures and skills to meet the challenges they present, could affect our ability to obtain maximum benefit from our growth opportunities.
Mitigating factors The Group places continuing focus on the opportunities, challenges and additional requirements related to growth.
The potential for growth is incorporated into Group strategic plans and budgets.
Existing structures and skills are reviewed in the context of growth and adjusted where necessary.
INTERRUPTION TO CONTINUITY OF SUPPLY Description, impact and link to strategy The Groups business model requires every depot to be able to supply product from local stock.
Any disruption to our relationship with key suppliers or interruption to manufacturing operations could adversely affect the Groups ability to implement the business model.
Mitigating factors With suppliers, the Group implements multiple sourcing strategies wherever possible in order to mitigate the effect of a key supplier being unable to deliver goods or services.
We also enter into long-term contracts to secure supply of our key materials.
Good supplier relationships are maintained by prompt settlement of invoices, regular communication, and an annual supplier conference.
We adopt best practice health & safety and fire prevention procedures.
Business continuity plans are in place for key production processes, and significant investment in disaster recovery capability is in place.
The Group has announced a major programme of investment in its manufacturing facilities to ensure that manufacturing capacity is sufficient to match our expected growth, as well as in further cabinet production capacity to provide additional cover in the event of an interruption to manufacturing operations.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued LOSS OF KEY PERSONNEL 22 Description, impact and link to strategy Howdens model relies upon people to behave in a way which reflects the culture and values of the business: this is critical to the success of the decentralised business model.
The skills, experience and performance of key members of the Groups management team make a major contribution to the success of the business.
The loss of a key member of the Groups management team could adversely affect the Groups operations.
Mitigating factors The Group uses the Remuneration Committee to ensure that key team members are appropriately compensated for their contributions and incentivised to continue their careers with the Group.
CREDIT CONTROL FAILURE Description, impact and link to strategy Our customers rely on our trade account facilities to enable them to get paid for completed projects before they have to pay for the products and materials they have used.
Cash flow is critical to their business.
To help support them, Howdens provides each account holder with an account on nett monthly terms.
Failure to provide, or service, these facilities could affect our ability to continue to support our customers, and potentially our ability to collect debt.
Mitigating factors Howdens has an effective trade account policy used to agree terms with our customers and efficient processes for the collection of debt which are closely and regularly monitored.
These are supported by robust systems and tested business continuity plans.
Good personal relationships are maintained with builders, both at depot level and within the credit control department.
In addition, concentration of debt is limited, as debt exposure is spread across over 360,000 customer accounts.
CYBER SECURITY INCIDENT Description, impact and link to strategy The Group depends on a core set of critical IT systems which are fundamental to the day-to-day running of the business.
These systems are at risk from increasingly sophisticated security threats.
Should a security breach occur, this could cause a system and or sensitive data to be compromised.
Mitigating factors Sophisticated security measures are in place across the business including security policies developed by our Information Systems team, laptop encryption, anti-virus and anti-malware protection, e-mail scanning and IT perimeter and firewall monitoring.
External specialists are used to test system vulnerabilities via penetration tests.
Disaster recovery capability and business continuity plans are in place, these are tested periodically.
