Strategic report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2014 Annual Report HomeServe has a risk management process which provides a structured and consistent There has been no significant Competition The market and the activities of other framework for identifying, assessing and responding to risks.
These risks are assessed in relation change in the competitive There are a number of participants are regularly reviewed to the Groups strategy, business performance and financial condition and a formal risk mitigation landscape in any of the countries in businesses that provide services to ensure that the strategies and plan is agreed with clear ownership and accountability.
Risk management operates at all levels which we operate.
that are similar to those of the offerings of current and potential throughout the Group, across geographies and business lines.
Group and could therefore competitors are fully understood.
In the USA we participate in compete in one or more of our Both qualitative and quantitative RFPs requests for proposal chosen markets.
Increased research is undertaken to ensure that Risks to HomeServes business are either specific to HomeServes business model, such as affinity that are issued by utilities when competition could affect our our products and services continue partner relationships and underwriting, or more general, such as the impact of competition and they seek to start a programme.
ability to meet our expectations to meet the needs of our customers regulatory compliance.
While we see some other parties and objectives for the business whilst retaining a competitive position participating in these tenders, we in terms of the number of in the market.
win the majority and we believe The table below sets out what the Board believes to be the principal risks and uncertainties facing customers, policies or the We believe we have a compelling that, overall, the RFP process financial returns achieved.
the Group, the mitigating actions for each, and an update on any change in the profile of each proposition for customers, providing is positive for our business as risk during the past year.
These should be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report.
Additional them with real value thereby helping it demonstrates an increased risks and uncertainties of which we are not currently aware or which we currently believe are not reduce the impact of increased awareness of our products and significant may also adversely affect our strategy, business performance or financial condition in competition.
services in the US market.
In France and Spain, there has been no significant change in the Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2014 Annual Report competitive landscape.
Commercial relationships We have regular contact and reviews While remaining a principal risk, we Customer loyalty retention Policy retention rate is one of our Key Retention remains high in all our Underpinning the success in with the senior management of our have continued to sign and renew A key element of our business Performance Indicators.
our chosen markets are close affinity partners to ensure that we affinity partnerships with utilities model is customer loyalty.
Any movement is therefore carefully commercial relationships respond to their needs and deliver the across the businesses.
In the UK, the rate increased to reduction in the proportion investigated to assess the change in affinity partner relationships service that they expect.
83%, up 1% compared to the prior of customers renewing their customer behaviour and to implement In the UK, we have renewed the principally with utility companies year and 4% relative to two years policies could significantly corrective action where possible.
Across the Group, we are not three utility partner agreements and financial institutions.
The ago, reflecting the quality of the impact our revenue.
dependent on any one single that were due to renew during the loss of one of these relationships We have a wide range of tools products, sales channels, service partnership which mitigates, in year.
could impact our future available to manage retention delivery and pricing strategies part, the impact of losing any single customer and policy growth rates, including specific retention adopted.
In France, we continue to work relationship.
with Veolia under a long-term In the USA, the retention rate was marketing agreement and have While these partnerships There are dedicated retention teams, 82% up from 81% in the prior year.
recently signed a long-term are secured under long-term trained and experienced in talking to partnership with Lyonnaise des contracts, which increase the In France, we have maintained a those customers who are considering Eaux, the second largest water security of these relationships retention rate of 89%.
over the medium-term, they can be terminated in certain In Spain, retention increased from In the USA, we signed new circumstances.
We also signed an affinity agreement with AARP, an organisation that helps people aged fifty and older to improve the quality of their lives.
In Spain, we continue to work closely with Endesa and our water partners and in Italy we continue our test agreement with Enel.
28 | HomeServe HomeServe | 29 Strategic report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2014 Annual Report Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2014 Annual Report Marketing effectiveness The performance of each marketing During the year our marketing Quality of customer service We monitor customer service In 2015 we have continued to A significant reduction in the campaign and channel is regularly channels performed as we Our reputation is heavily standards at a number of different monitor customer satisfaction response rates on our marketing reviewed, with any significant expected with UK direct mail dependent on the quality of our customer contact points in each of our across all our operations at a could have a significant deviation to the expected response response rates back in line with customer service.
operations using both internal data number of different customer contact points, with improvements impact on customer and policy rate quickly identified and remedial past experience.
and an independent third party.
Any failure to meet our service seen in all of the businesses.
action taken for subsequent We continue to develop our digital standards or negative media The results of these are reviewed campaigns.
channels and working with our coverage of poor service could on a regular basis and action plans Reflecting the importance of partners to offer our products in have a detrimental impact on produced to address the key issues.
customer service to our business, their call centres.
Development of customer and policy numbers.
all senior managers have Processes have been established these two channels is serving to customer service performance as to ensure that all directly employed reduce our reliance on direct mail a significant component of their engineers and sub-contractors meet activity.
These include Exposure to legislation or We have regulatory specialists, Our larger businesses have criminal record checks and minimum regulatory requirements compliance teams and Non dedicated experienced compliance qualification requirements.
We are subject to a broad Executive Directors within each of our specialists while our smaller Availability of underwriters We use a number of underwriters, We continue to review our spectrum of regulatory businesses to help ensure that all business in Italy is supported by The policies that we market and with the main provider in the UK being underwriting relationships on requirements in each of the aspects of the legislative regime in external professionals.
administer with customers are separate to those in the rest of Europe a regular basis to ensure they markets in which we operate, each territory are fully understood and In the UK we have strengthened each individually underwritten and the USA.
provide the best returns for particularly relating to product adopted as required.
the regulatory and compliance by third party underwriters, customers and shareholders.
design, marketing materials, We have regular contact and reviews Specifically in the UK, we maintain team and addressed the FCAs independent of HomeServe.
sales processes and data with the senior management of the During 2015, we reached regular dialogue with the FCA, while in recommendations relating to the protection.
We act as an insurance underwriters to ensure that claims agreement with a second the USA we have regular dialogue with business.
intermediary and do not take on frequencies, repair costs and service underwriting provider in the USA Failure to comply with the the Attorneys General.
In the USA we proactively work with any material insurance risk.
standards are in line with their and have continued to develop our regulatory requirements in any We keep up to date with changes in local Attorneys General and media expectations.
of our countries could result in If these underwriters were government and regulatory policy, commentators to ensure they us having to suspend, either unable or unwilling to The principal underwriters are subject which ensures that our products and understand the service offered by temporarily or permanently, underwrite these risks and we to medium-term agreements, with the services are designed, marketed and HomeServe.
were unable to find alternative rates subject to regular review.
sold in accordance with all relevant In France, it was confirmed that underwriters it would require In addition, legislative changes legal and regulatory requirements and In addition, we maintain relationships our activities are excluded from us to insure these risks directly, related to our partners may that their terms and conditions remain with a number of underwriters who the provisions of Hamon Law, a thereby exposing the business change their obligations with appropriate and meet the needs of are willing and able to underwrite law which enables customers to to material insurance risk, which regard to the infrastructure they customers.
our business and regularly review cancel insurance policies after is contrary to our preferred currently manage and hence the the market to ensure we understand the first year outside the normal operating model.
In addition, it products and services we can current market conditions, how these renewal cycle, something that was would take time to obtain the offer to customers.
apply to our policies and how we previously prohibited in France.
can mitigate the loss of an existing It is possible such legislative underwriter.
changes could reduce, or even remove, the need for certain of our products and services.
30 | HomeServe HomeServe | 31 Strategic report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2014 Annual Report Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2014 Annual Report We have continued to strengthen We are replacing our core Dependence on recruitment Our employment policies, Our IT systems become a The Group reviews its systems and and retention of skilled constraint to growth and our management teams across all customer IT system and will remuneration and benefits packages, processes on a regular basis.
As part personnel drive inefficiency instead of our operations particularly in the continue to invest in new and long-term incentives are regularly of these reviews it looks at the future efficiency improvements Our ability to meet growth areas of IT, digital, compliance and technology that allows us to reviewed and designed to be plans of each of the businesses in The Groups core IT system is expectations and compete commercial.
improve the products and service competitive with other companies.
terms of customer and policy growth, used in each of our businesses.
effectively is, in part, dependent we offer our customers.
Our product and process design and The system is now around 20 on the skills, experience and Employee surveys, performance During the year, we developed a attention has initially been focused development requirements and the years old and has had a number performance of our personnel.
reviews and regular communication People Charter in the UK and USA.
on our UK business, where we potential impact on IT systems.
The The inability to attract, motivate of business activities are just some The values proposed in them will have now implemented a limited system is dependent on internal or retain key talent could of the methods used to understand be adopted as an integral part All system developments and version of the replacement Pega development resource and impact on our overall business and respond to employees views and of our recruitment, selection and enhancements undergo a rigorous Systems software and expect to knowledge.
financial review and the proposed complete the replacement of our benefits are monitored and subject to UK system within the next twelve Processes are in place to identify high post implementation reviews.
months, at which point we intend performing individuals and to ensure to roll out the new system to our that they have fulfilling careers, and Our IT developments are subject to business in the USA.
we are managing succession planning a prioritisation process which takes effectively.
into account the availability of both internal and external resource and the proposed benefits of the project.
Exposure to country and The criteria for entering a new country We are not currently planning to regional risk include a full assessment of the enter new territories and continue In line with other businesses we stability of its economic and political to monitor the economic, political are subject to economic, political situation, together with a review of the and regulatory environments and other risks associated with manner and way in which business is where we operate.
We plan to cease activity in A variety of factors, including Germany in 2016.
When entering a new country, we changes in a specific countrys generally do so on a small scale test political, economic or regulatory basis.
This low risk entry strategy requirements, as well as the minimises the likelihood of any potential for geographical turmoil significant loss.
including terrorism and war, could result in the loss of service.
32 | HomeServe HomeServe | 33 Strategic report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2014 Annual Report Going concern Financial strategy and Interest rate risk As a result of our relatively low The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, treasury risk Our policy is to manage our interest level of bank borrowings and a performance and position are set out in the strategic report.
The main financial risks are cost using a mix of fixed and variable stable interest environment we the availability of short-term rate debts.
Where necessary, this is have not entered into any swaps and long-term funding to meet The Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets, forecasts, cash flows and established that during 2015. achieved by entering into interest rate business needs, the swaps for certain periods, in which the businesses are progressing in line with their expectations for growth in 2016.
As a result the risk of policyholders not we agree to exchange, at specified Directors have concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate paying monies owed, and intervals, the difference between fixed resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they fluctuations in interest rates and variable rate interest amounts continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount.
These swaps are designated to hedge This statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2015 and is signed on its underlying debt obligations.
behalf by: There has been no significant Credit risk change in the level of mid-term The risk associated with cash and Johnathan Ford policy cancellations.
cash equivalents is managed by only Chief Financial Officer depositing funds with reputable and 19 May 2015 creditworthy banking institutions.
The risk of a policyholder defaulting is mitigated as any policy cover will cease as and when any premium fails to be paid.
Liquidity risk Our banking facility was renewed We manage liquidity risk by in July 2014.
Our net debt at maintaining adequate reserves and 31 March 2015 was 64.1m, banking facilities and continuously significantly within the facility limit monitoring forecast and actual of 300m.
Net debt is expected cash flows.
to increase, still within the facility, following the capital return to shareholders.
Foreign exchange risk During the year our Euro profits A clear treasury policy exists to have been impacted by 2.2m due address short-term risk and this works to the weakening Euro.
If the Euro with the natural hedging provided remains weak and as a result will by the geographical spread of the present further translation risk businesses.
While this will protect in 2016. against some of the transaction The movement in the US Dollar rate exposure our reported results would was less significant in 2015 and still be impacted by the translation of generated a profit benefit of 0.7m.
34 | HomeServe HomeServe | 35 Corporate responsibility Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate responsibility 36 | HomeServe HomeServe | 37
