Home Retail Group 24 Annual Report 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties We outline below the principal risks and uncertainties to achieving theGroups strategic priorities together with the mitigating activities.
For further information on how we manage risk, see page 37 within the corporate governance section for an overview of our risk management process.
Specific financial risks are detailed on page 31 within the Group financial review.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIVITIES As outlined within our strategic report on page 5 both Argos and Homebase have clear strategic plans.
As we continue Business strategy to undertake a number of significant investments, particularly in the digital area within Argos, the delivery of forecasted Impact on shareholder value benefits is critical to the realisation of both the Argos Transformation Plan and the Homebase Productivity Plan.
Inappropriate strategies Strategic issues, including risks and opportunities, are discussed at every Board meeting.
All material investments are Poor investment decisions evaluated and monitored at the Board and Group Executive Board.
Inadequate execution Programme governance structures are in place, supported by an established project management environment, with selected projects reviewed by Internal Audit.
Considerable time is dedicated to strategic review, with regular performance reviews of strategic KPIs at various executive meetings across the Group.
We strive to effectively communicate with key stakeholders such as investors, colleagues, suppliers and government.
The Groups business reviews pages 12-21 demonstrate that both businesses are achieving growth in highly competitive trading Trading environment environments.
Both brands are progressing on the delivery of their strategic plans.
Impact on sales, gross margins, costs, profit and cash of: The universal appeal strategy page 5 within Argos aims to broaden customer appeal.
Furthermore, price tracking versus Economic and market conditions our competition and dynamic pricing ensures price competitiveness is maintained.
This, coupled with a planning process which supports the business through new product launches, seasonal changes, extreme weather variations and a Cost of raw material products programme of promotional activity, seeks to reduce trading risk from increased competitive pressures.
services utilities Competitor activity Sales across the Group are supported by our in-house Financial Services business, providing the option to promote on price Seasonality and or weather and or credit.
UK-centric store network Disciplines exist to maintain control of working capital.
Cash generation is a key management objective see remuneration scheme metrics on pages 44 to 61 and we maintain strong relationships with our banks and credit insurers.
We have a well-established continuous improvement programme which constantly reviews and challenges the Groups cost base to maintain our low-cost operating model.
This includes ongoing evaluation to optimise the Groups store network, which has resulted in a strategy to reduce space within Homebase.
The strategies of both businesses outlined on pages 5 and 6 require a demanding schedule of projects.
Our governance Infrastructure framework is instrumental in ensuring the delivery of all aspects of the strategic plans.
development projects Impact on costs and future Detailed planning, including review of any trial learnings occurs prior to any subsequent roll-out.
The Board receives regular capabilities progress updates on all major change programmes.
Post completion, major investments are subject to a post-investment review at various levels within the management structure.
Delay or failure to manage andimplement major business The Group has entered into a number of strategic technology partnerships to enhance innovation and delivery, alongside and infrastructure projects investment in a team of digital specialists to support both the delivery of the Argos Transformation Plan and the day-to-day effectively IT operations of the Group.
We work very closely with our partners and have a dedicated commercial management team to Reliance on third-party service manage such contracts.
providers eg IT The Group values its colleagues and their contribution to the success of the organisation.
Competitive remuneration Our colleagues packages, with oversight from the Remuneration Committee, in parallel with active succession planning, a strong focus Impact on service quality, on learning and development and both A-Level and Graduate recruitment programmes enable the Group to both attract innovation and costs and retain an engaged workforce.
Reliance on key personnel The Group has a suite of development programmes for colleagues across all levels of the organisation.
Digital up-skilling Availability of specialist skills of colleagues is supporting business change and enabling greater workplace flexibility.
Pension obligations We are committed to open communications with colleagues at all times and monitor employee satisfaction through listening groups and employee forums.
We deployed pensions auto-enrolment, making saving into a defined contribution scheme accessible to all colleagues.
We have a good relationship with the Trustees of the Groups closed defined benefit pension scheme which helps to ensure that we manage the schemes future obligations as efficiently as possible.
Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation annual report 2015 25 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIVITIES Understanding our customers is essential to the success of our strategies.
We are investing to better understand our Our customers different customers so as to provide insight to enable us to improve our customer offering.
We continuously engage with Impact on sales, profit and our customers, increasingly via social media, to gather feedback.
growth potential Failing to meet customers The Group continues to use technological innovation to give customers choice in how they shop with us alongside existing and future expectations expansion in both product choice and services across the Group.
This, combined with improved store and product presentation and investment in customer service, will we hope, broaden customer appeal.
Consumer preferences Changing demographics Argos is supporting the Governments Go ON UK initiative by hosting digital inclusion workshops to help customers andbehaviours migrate to new technologies.
With significant change programmes in each business, retaining our core competencies for competitive advantage is being Operations achieved via an effective project management office, executive oversight and cross-functional working parties.
Impact on costs and propositiondelivery Product availability remains a key priority as the Group mitigates complex supply chain risks through robust processes Failure to ensure appropriate and new initiatives, such as hub & spoke, to enable product immediacy for customers on a wide range of products.
processes are in place to manage the complexity of operations, Homebases Productivity Plan is centred on strengthening key operational processes and down-sizing the store estate to including supply chain, create a solid foundation for future growth.
This is alongside Homebase maintaining its award-winning installation services multi-channel and for kitchens, bathrooms and bedroom furniture.
customerservice The Group is investing heavily in multi-channel capability, with improvements in digital capabilities in both businesses.
We are exploiting existing infrastructure to develop market-leading fulfilment options and expanding into new opportunities such as the eBay partnership.
The Group continues to leverage its global sourcing capabilities and established buying operations in Asia whilst seeking Sourcing, product further opportunities for sourcing efficiencies to control the cost of goods sold which thereby benefits customers.
quality and safety Impact on customers, costs The safety and quality of our products is of paramount importance to the Group.
Suppliers are required to sign up to the andreputation Groups Supply Chain Principles and to specific policies regarding products and their environmental impact: we conduct ethical audits of all own-brand direct-source suppliers, we have a robust risk-based approach to factory auditing and Product failures pre-shipment inspections of imports are carried out by a third party and also by our own quality teams in Asia.
Furthermore, Purchase of products whose we are members of Sedex, a collaborative platform for ethical supply chain data.
costbase of manufacture is in currencies other than sterling, With over a third of products imported, the volatility of the global economy exposes the Group to both currency principally the US dollar fluctuations, particularly the US dollar, and changes in freight costs.
We hedge currency exposures and forward-buy freight Appropriateness of financial commitments where possible.
services products We work with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA to monitor and review our financial services products to ensure fair customer outcomes.
Good governance practices are important to the Group, illustrated by membership of industry representation groups, Regulatory environment including the British Retail Consortium and ongoing engagement with regulatory bodies such as the FCA.
Impact on costs and reputation Changes to breach of UK In addition to ensuring compliance with existing requirements such as data protection, health and safety and financial andoverseas legislation services regulation, we continually challenge our environmental impact by setting and achieving stretching targets for andregulation, eg consumer fuel efficiency, waste reduction and energy consumption.
We are active in monitoring future developments and protection, environmental pro-actively engage with government and regulators such as the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills and regulation Trading Standards Institute.
Changes to breach of FCA The FCA has assumed regulatory responsibility for consumer credit.
The Group has a project team in place, supported by requirements external experts, to review our governance and regulatory compliance arrangements and to progress our application for Changes in UK fiscal authorisation with the FCA as a consequence of this regulatory change.
employment policy, eg minimum wage A major incident could impact the ability of the Group to continue trading.
We manage this risk by maintaining and testing Business interruption our business continuity plans regularly, investing in incident management training and we have remote IT disaster recovery Impact on sales, costs and capabilities.
reputation Cyber-attack terrorism acts The threat of cyber-attack and particularly data loss is taken seriously by the Group and as such is subject to continual ofnature review.
Specialist IT security resources have been engaged alongside an increased level of investment.
Failure or unavailability The Group has robust contractual arrangements and comprehensive supplier management, particularly for key service ofoperational and or IT partners.
We actively monitor the supply base to identify vulnerabilities and identify suitable contingency solutions, infrastructure, eg website OMS working towards a sustainable outcome for all parties when issues arise.
Delay or interruption in products or services provided by third-party suppliers
