30 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Risk management The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
indd 30 12 04 2016 13:05 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Oversight, direction and governance STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 31 Risk arises from the operations of, The Audit Committee supports the Board The structure of our Group risk andstrategic decisions taken by, inmonitoring the risk exposures and is management process is illustrated below: everybusiness.
Our approach to risk responsible for reviewing the effectiveness management is not to eliminate risk entirely, of our risk management and internal As the Groups component subsidiaries but rather provide the structural means controlsystems.
formed part of the CRH plc Group for toidentify, prioritise and manage the several years prior to their disposal, they risksinvolved in our activities.
Risk matrices are maintained and reviewed fellunder the Sarbanes Oxley regime of by each subsidiary entity within the Group.
internal control over financial reporting.
The Board of Directors is ultimately These matrices are the result of input These processes and controls have been responsible for the Groups risk andchallenge undertaken by the senior maintained following the divestment from management process and internal control managers within the entity and the Groups CRH plc, and the Directors believe this systems.
The Board has considered the Executive Directors.
At a Group level, the stands the new Group in good stead.
nature and extent of risks it is willing to Board reviews these matrices and the takein pursuit of the Groups strategic analysis of potential exposures which exist However, following the listing of the Group objectives.
It has assessed the Groups within them.
Risks are continually evaluated in October 2015, the newly formed Audit riskappetite, which is set to balance using consistent measurement criteria.
Committee requested a third party review opportunities for business development of the Groups Internal Audit function and and growth in areas of potentially higher Internal Audit supports the Audit Committee the internal control processes.
This risk, whilst maintaining our reputation in evaluating the design and operating independent health-check of the Groups andhigh levels of customer satisfaction.
effectiveness of our risk strategies and risk management is due to be completed theinternal controls implemented by inthe first half of 2016.
The Groups risk management process management.
incorporates both top-down and The Directors have carried out a robust bottom-up elements to the identification, assessment of the principal risks facing the evaluationand management of risks.
Group including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Risk management framework Board Ultimate responsibility Group Management Team Support for the Board Internal Audit Independent Audit Committee assurance Review effectiveness Entity Management Committees Prepare risk matrices Operation level controls embedded across the Group Day to day activities to identify and manage risk IBSTOCK 11 Risks DRF2.
indd 31 12 04 2016 13:06 Reporting and escalation 32 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Risk management continued Principal risks 1.
Economic conditions Description Mitigation The Groups business could be materially impacted by changes The Group analyses construction statistics for the past five years inthe macroeconomic environment in the UK and the US.
and, using independent forecasts of construction statistics, forecasts demand for the next five years with the aim of Specifically, demand for the Groups products is strongly correlated anticipating market movements.
with residential construction and renovation activities and nonresidential construction, together with the supply chains attitude The Group has historically flexed capacity and its cost base where to stock levels, which are cyclical.
possible during economic downturns to allow more of the Groups manufacturing plants to remain open and viable, maintaining skills, development and training.
The Group believes that this has maintained employee morale and high levels of customer service through the last economic downturn.
It also allows the Group to respond more rapidly to increases in demand and keep customers satisfied.
The Groups RMI and specification product ranges diversify end-use exposure and provide greater resilience in light of changing market demand in any of its end-use markets.
Government action and policy Description Mitigation The Group has an exposure to both UK or US political The Group analyses construction statistics for the past five developments.
Material reductions in Government spending years and, using independent forecasts of construction statistics, couldhave a material effect on demand for the Groups products forecasts demand for the next five years with the aim of reducing sales and affecting the Groups financial results.
The change in climate post 2015s UK General Election and Autumn Budget are favourable to housing, as well as recent changes to developing Brown Field land and the 200,000 affordable homes the Government is targeting to be built by 2020.
These measures, in addition to the National Planning Policy Framework NPPF and Help to Buy scheme, show the Governments current commitment to house building.
However, the Group recognises the risk which can result from political changes or economic uncertainty.
RMI and new housing demands are, to a certain extent, countercyclical to each other, providing some balance to the portfolio of offerings for the Group.
Government regulation and standards relating to the manufacture and use of building products Description Mitigation The Groups production, manufacturing and distribution activities The health and wellbeing of our employees is fundamental to are subject to health and safety risks.
We have stringent Health and Safety policies and monitor compliance regularly.
The Group is subject to environmental, health and safety laws andregulations and these may change.
These laws and We have also invested considerable resources in employee regulationscould cause the Group to make modifications to how trainingacross our manufacturing processes.
We have invested itmanufactures and prices its products.
They could also require heavily in safe systems and facilities to protect our employees.
thatthe Group make significant capital investments or otherwise The Group actively monitors for any legislative changes which increase its costs or could result in liabilities.
itmay need to comply with.
Failure of the Group to comply with the relevant regulations couldresult in the Group being liable to fines or a suspension ofoperations, which would impact the Groups financial results.
indd 32 12 04 2016 13:06 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 33 4.
Customer relationships and reputation Description Mitigation The Group receives a significant portion of its revenue from key The Group has a service-led ethos with many top customer customers and the loss of any such customer could result in a relationships lasting over 40 years.
The Groups customer focus is significant loss of revenue and cash flow.
Further, the Group does supported by a commitment to quality, service and consistency.
not have long-term contracts with its customers and the Groups The Groups sales and production teams are highly integrated to revenue could be reduced if its customers switch some or all of ensure that production aligns with customers needs.
Sales teams their business with the Group to other suppliers.
receive in-depth technical training and are assisted by a design support service team as well as targeted marketing materials to assist with specification and selection.
All four of the Groups primary businesses have their own sales teams aligned by customer group and region in order to focus on key decision-makers and customers.
Key account management is supervised at a senior level where long-term relationships benefit from the continuity of senior management who have the ability to liaise across the Groups businesses.
The Group has a broad spread of customers and no single customer comprised more than 10% of the total Group revenue.
5. Business disruption Description Mitigation A material disruption at one of the Groups manufacturing facilities The Group has the ability to transfer some of its production or quarries, or at one of the Groups suppliers facilities, could across its network of plants and is able to engage subcontractors prevent the Group from meeting customer demand.
to reduce the impact of certain production disruptions.
The Group depends on efficient and uninterrupted operations of its In relation to supplier disruption or failure, further third party information and communication technology, and any disruption to suppliers have been identified who can maintain service in the or interruptions in these operations could have a material adverse event of a disruption.
effect on the Groups operations and financial performance.
In relation to IT, a major incident action plan has been developed Additionally, the Group is exposed to the impact of unexpected and the Group maintains data backups and a comprehensive or prolonged periods of bad weather, which could adversely disaster recovery plan.
affect construction activity and, as a result, demand for the Although weather conditions are completely beyond the Groups Groups products.
control, in both the UK and US in 2015 adverse weather did not impact on trading in the context of the full year.
Management do not underestimate the potential impact that future prolonged periods of bad weather could have.
The Groups wide geographical spread allows it to manage its production facilities to mitigate the impact of such disruption.
Recruitment and retention of key personnel Description Mitigation The Group is dependent on qualified personnel in key positions We ensure that we recognise the changing labour markets, and employees having special technical knowledge and skills.
and packages for key and senior staff remain competitive.
Any loss of such personnel without timely replacement could The Group believes that it is essential to protect and develop the significantly disrupt business operations.
management team, where appropriate ensuring that the team is structured in a way which best takes advantage of the available skills and robustly identifies the team and structure for the future.
Extensive succession plans are in place, which is key to ensuring a managed transfer of roles and responsibilities.
Apprenticeship schemes are in operation with a yearly intake across the business engineering and technical based.
High potential individuals are identified with development plans formulated.
External recruits are brought in where any skill gaps are identified and to enhance the talent pool.
indd 33 12 04 2016 13:06 34 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Risk management continued 7.
Input prices Description Mitigation The Groups business may be affected by volatility in extraction Significant input costs are under constant review, with continuous expenses and raw material costs.
Risks exist around our ability to monitoring of raw material costs, energy prices and haulage pass on increased costs through price increases to our customers.
expenses, with the aim of achieving the best possible prices and assuring stability of supply.
The Groups business may also be affected by volatility in energy costs or disruptions in energy supplies.
As competitors of the Group are likely to experience similar levels of input price increases, we aim to have appropriate pricing policies Significant changes in the cost or availability of transportation to remain competitive within our markets and pass on significant could affect the Groups results.
increases in input costs to our customers wherever possible.
Product quality Description Mitigation The nature of the Groups business may expose it to warranty The Group operates comprehensive quality control procedures claims and to claims for product liability, construction defects, across its sites.
project delay, property damage, personal injury and other The Groups Technical teams carry out regular testing of all of our damages.
Any damage to the Groups brands, including through products to provide full technical data on our product range.
actual or alleged issues with its products, could harm our business, reputation and the Groups financial results.
Financial risk management Description Mitigation In addition to the input cost risks outlined above, the Group is Foreign exchange risk The Group undertakes very limited subject to the following other financial risks: foreign exchange transactions, with the UK and US businesses Foreign exchange risk As the Group has operations in the UK selling domestically with largely local input costs.
Management and the US, exchange rate fluctuations may adversely impact the considers foreign exchange hedging strategies where Groups results.
Credit risk Through its customers, the Group is exposed to a Credit risk Customer credit risk is managed by each counterparty risk that accounts receivable will not be settled subsidiary subject to the Groups policy relating to customer leading to a financial loss to the Group.
The Group principally manages credit Liquidity risk Insufficient funds could result in the Group being risk through management of customer credit limits.
The credit unable to fund its operations.
limits are set for each customer based on the creditworthiness Interest rate risk Movements in interest rates could adversely of the customer and the anticipated levels of business activity.
impact the Group and result in higher financing payments to These limits are initially determined when the customer account service debt.
is first set up and are regularly monitored thereafter.
Liquidity risk The Groups policy is to ensure that it has sufficient funding and facilities in place to meet any foreseeable peak in borrowing requirements and liabilities when they become due.
In September 2015, the Group entered into specific facilities of 240 million for a five-year term.
Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
The Groups bank borrowings, other facilities and deposits are in Sterling and at floating rates.
No interest rate derivative contracts have been entered into at the period end.
Pension obligations Description Mitigation The Group has obligations to its employees relating to retirement The Company plays an active role in the pension scheme and other obligations and any changes in assumptions or in interest nominating up to half of the Trustees and the Group Chief Financial rate levels could have adverse effects on its financial position.
Officer attends and chairs Trustee meetings.
The defined benefit scheme is closed to new members.
The Pension Trustees and their external advisers, as well as the internal pensions team, have significant expertise in the area and provide good quality oversight.
An agreed Statement of Investment Principles is operated to provide appropriate security, achieve sufficient long-term growth and achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return.
A trend direction of the significant risks and uncertainties is not provided since the 2015 Annual Report & Accounts is the first reporting of Ibstock plc.
indd 34 12 04 2016 13:06 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 35 Viability Statement Lookout period Assumptions Background In determining the lookout period to assess In determining the viability of the Group, The Directors, in preparing for the the prospects of the Group, the Directors theBoard made the following assumptions: Groups Initial Public Offering, undertook decided that three years was the appropriate The economic climate in the geographies acomprehensive assessment of its viability period over which to assess longer-term in which the Group operates remains as a business rigorously assessing its viability.
The nature of the building products inline with a broad consensus of markets, the strength of its business model business is that it is particularly sensitive externalforecasts: and the potential risks that could impact tothe level of economic activity, which is There is no material change in the legal itsongoing success.
This process involved influenced by factors outside of the Groups and regulatory frameworks with which carefully reviewing and assessing extensive control, such as demographic trends, the the Group complies: evidence, from both internal and external state of the housing market, mortgage There are no material changes in sources, to evaluate the prospects for availability, mortgage interest rates and construction methods used in the Ibstock over a long-term horizon.
It involved changes in household income, inflation and markets in which the Group operates: stress testing the Groups business model Government policy.
Based on the evidence The Groups risk mitigation strategies to develop an appropriate valuation of the available, the Directors believe that it is continue to be effective: and business.
The success of the IPO provides reasonable to expect continued growth, and The Groups past record of successfully confirmatory evidence that the market consider that a three-year period provides mitigating significant construction considers that Ibstock will continue as the most appropriate horizon over which industry declines can be replicated.
aviable business in the longer term.
The Directors have also Theknowledge and evidence gained from considered the financing the Group has in Conclusion the IPO process is now embedded in the ongoing governance of the business.
place, which is agreed for a period in excess In summary, the Directors reasonably of the lookout period used.
Refinancing is expect, based on the evidence available, Assessment therefore not considered a significant factor that the Group will continue in operation The extensive work carried out in inthis current assessment, but is monitored and meet its liabilities as they fall due over preparation for the IPO, therefore, has on a continuous basis.
the three-year period of their assessment.
informed the Directors assessment of the longer-term viability of the business.
Stress testing In addition, the Directors, as part of During the challenging market conditions of theiryear end review for the preparation the recent past, the Group performed well, ofthis Annual Report, have assessed remaining cash positive and implementing thebusiness model, strategy, market a number of mitigating actions that allowed conditions, business planning, risks and it to remain viable.
These mitigating actions the liquidity and solvency of the Group.
remain available to the Directors today.
The Group has a strong position in the The budget has been stress tested markets in which it operates as noted against a severe and prolonged reduction on pages 16 to 17 and its strategy see in demand for its products, on the basis pages 22 and 23 is aimed at continuing of reduced house building activity and tostrengthen its position in those markets therefore reduced volume of product and create value for its shareholders.
sold, as well as a benign environment Ibstocks global operations see pages of prolonged price stagnation on sales.
36and 37 exposes it to a number of These scenarios reflect the previous risksand its principal risks and uncertainties challenging market conditions of the are noted on pages 32 to 34.
The Directors 2008 09 downturn, a period over which continually review those risks and determine UK construction output fell 13% Source: the appropriate controls and further actions.
Office of National Statistics, Construction They have further reviewed the impact within Products Association with sharp the context of the Groups viability.
The reductions also in the US market.
These Group has limited exposure to interest rate scenarios have been modelled alongside risk and foreign exchange rate risk as input cost inflation outside of the Groups described on pages 38 to 41. control, notably for energy costs.
