Principal risks and uncertainties The Group places great importance on the identification and effective management of risk.
Our approach to risk management helps us to deliver our objectives and maximize the returns of the Group.
The following table describes the risks that the Board considers to have a potential material impact on the Group.
They are specific to the nature of our business notwithstanding that there are other risks that may occur and may impact the achievement of the Groups objectives.
The Board discussions on risk have focused on these risks and the actions being taken to manage them.
Risk or uncertainty and potential impact How we manage it Competitive Environment The business operates in a highly competitive market and needs to be Drive and deliver new product developments and enhancements able to respond rapidly to competitive threats.
which differentiate us competitively Monitor and understand our competitors Focus on being responsive to customers and improving the quality and delivery of our products Seek out new market opportunities and pioneer unexploited sectors Intellectual Property Patent-related threats from third parties seeking to use patents as an Build a portfolio of strategically important patents across our alternative way of generating revenue.
IP portfolios Build strong relationships with external counsel to enable us to act quickly and defend our position Work closely with customers to respond quickly to potential threats Customer Concentration The business currently has a large portion of revenue related to Build a portfolio of technology that appeals to a broad range of specific customers and technologies.
Consolidation within the industry customers and market segments could drive this further and increase the Groups dependence on a Develop sales strategies and relationships with a wider number of limited number of customers.
Market concentration is a concern with customers spread across different sectors and jurisdictions significant exposure to the smartphone market.
Monitor trends and changes in the semiconductor industry Develop business models that reflect the changing industry landscape Change in Customer Dynamics A change in the business environment or business models employed Establish trusted relationships with customers to ensure we fully by our customers could have a detrimental impact on our financial understand their strategic direction performance.
Adapt a flexible approach to different business models Develop further engagement with Chinese companies and explore opportunities in Latin America Strategic report 43 | Risk or uncertainty and potential impact How we manage it Supporting Business Growth With the significant growth expected in the business there is a need to Continue to develop procedures and processes to support the effectively scale the infrastructure, people and processes to capitalize growing business on the opportunities.
Add resources in key areas Long term planning undertaken across the business to identify requirements Cyber Risk Cyber risk causes disruption to the business or loss of IP following Establish a defence by deploying the latest generation of firewall a cyber attack.
This could cause interruption of internal or external protection facing systems, including interruption to the business caused by Ongoing improvement in the rigour of authentication processes a loss of data and reputational damage from a loss of personal or including wider use of single sign on confidential data.
The cost or effort to reconstitute data that has Improve protection of confidential data on portable computers been stolen or corrupted and commercial loss from the theft of commercially sensitive data, including IP.
Develop process of system patching to close security loopholes Products Meeting Customer Requirements Unable to deliver new products on time or achieve performance that Put in place Business Units to manage and monitor customer does not meet market requirements in terms of specification, quality requirements or timeliness could result in loss of market share with a corresponding Close project management, including using project management impact on financial performance.
systems Checks throughout the project to ensure the expected outcomes including specification and timing will be achieved Thorough roadmap planning process including discussion with key customers for each Business Unit Additional R&D resources allocated to key projects Macro-Economic Developments Changes in global economic conditions can have a significant impact Broad customer, engineering and products base to balance risk on our partners and customers and therefore may affect the financial Flexible in responding to changing demands performance of the business.
Effective forecasting of business performance Foreign exchange hedging strategy implemented Effective Management of People In a complex, geographically diverse and fast moving business it Ensure competitive remuneration package is designed to attract, is critical that we employ effective management capabilities.
This retain and reward employees with ability and experience to execute is necessary to deliver on customer requirements, maintain an group strategy entrepreneurial and dynamic culture, and attract, develop and retain Invest in management development training key personnel.
Ensure adequate succession planning is performed and documented for all key personnel Identify behaviours to support the development of company culture 44 Strategic report |
