OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Principal Risks Overview In the following section we highlight the principal risks we face and identify the mitigations that we have in place to manage the impact of these risks upon the business.
Not all of these factors are within our direct control, and the list cannot be considered to be exhaustive, as other risks and uncertainties may emerge in a changing business environment.
As is common with most large organisations the Group is subject to general commercial risks: for example, geo-political and socio-economic developments, cyber-security breaches, failure of our IT infrastructure, the cost of our raw materials, and the impact of competition.
In addition, as with other multi-national organisations a large amount of the Groups revenue in the year was generated in markets outside the UK and the Group is therefore exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates which could impact the Groups financial results which are reported in pounds sterling.
The Group is also exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates due to its foreign subsidiaries, its commercial trading transactions denominated in foreign currencies and foreign currency cash deposits, borrowings and derivatives.
Risk Reduction in the size of the legitimate tobacco market What affects us What we do Changes in regulation Regulatory restrictions exist in many of our markets which impact our The Groups regulatory engagement strategy seeks to inform consumers by influencing availability, demand and freedom to use key stakeholders about our views, to ensure balanced debate and our products.
The introduction of excessive and disproportionate proportionate regulatory outcomes.
This engagement includes: regulation, both present and future, could have an adverse effect consulting with external experts to provide advice and guidance: on consumer choice, potentially impacting the demand for our products, as well as the cost of continuing to comply with such engagement, where possible, with regulators: increasing regulation.
providing industry-specific information to ensure that regulators Several of the US cigarette brands acquired in the year are menthol have a more balanced fact base: brands or include menthol variants and any future Food and Drug highlighting the unintended consequences of proposed regulatory Administration FDA regulation of menthol in cigarettes, in particular, change: and may adversely affect our ability to derive the full benefits expected from the acquisition.
making legal challenges against excessive regulation.
We prioritise the Groups expertise and resources according to the relevant key regulatory issues.
Cross-market liaison is promoted within the Group to ensure best practice and opportunities from markets already impacted are identified, understood, and applied.
Increases in excise duty Governments across the world perceive the use of tobacco excise We engage with local tax and customs authorities as well as rates to be a means of raising additional public funding and or the politicians legislators and media where appropriate to provide satisfying of public private tobacco control agendas.
informed input to the unintended consequences of disproportionate excise increases.
The widening price differential between tobacco products in neighbouring countries increases both the availability and attractiveness to the consumer of purchasing non-domestic duty paid product.
We take commercial steps to mitigate the impact of this issue through the monitoring and compilation of ongoing analysis to ensure strategic price and product offerings exist in the context of the excise duty structures in each market.
Through our portfolio of products we are able to meet consumer preferences across different price points.
Illicit trade The consequence of excise and regulatory regimes is a widening gap We seek to partner with governments and law enforcement agencies between the price of legitimate and illegitimate product.
As a result around the world on anti-illicit trade initiatives, and work alongside the legitimate tobacco industry continues to be subject to the the European Commissions Anti-Fraud Office OLAF and law significant impact and increasing threat of illicit trade.
The sale of enforcement agencies both in the EU and elsewhere.
counterfeit product and smuggled illicit whites in our markets act In order to achieve this we employ specialist teams to provide as a direct competitor to legitimate domestic duty-paid, travel retail effective support to the business, governments, and law enforcement and duty-free products, eroding our volumes and market shares.
agencies, performing market analysis and intelligence to provide appropriate and targeted solutions to the combating of illicit trade.
We maintain strong business conduct standards and controls, both for our business and our first-line customers, in order to prevent our products being diverted.
Macro-economic conditions A material decline in the economic conditions affecting consumers, We monitor and analyse consumption patterns and economic notably an impact upon disposable income, may change their indicators in order to ensure that our current and future portfolio consumption patterns, including an increased propensity to provides the consumer with a range of products across different purchase illicit products.
This analysis is a key input to our product development and pricing strategies.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 27 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Risk Marketplace What affects us What we do Marketplace The Group has a significant presence in mature European markets We continuously monitor our exposure and review our portfolio and our and any material change in the economic circumstances of, and or existing processes and policies to minimise our economic exposure our performance in, our key European markets may affect our future and to preserve our ability to operate in a range of potential conditions profit development and have an adverse impact on the Groups that may exist should one or more of these future events occur.
Our international footprint and comprehensive portfolio, further Should concerns regarding the future of the euro, or the exit of enhanced by the US acquisition, provide an increasingly balanced one or more Eurozone countries, continue or increase, consumer exposure to both EU and non-EU markets, with the core of our spending patterns could be impacted.
Such an event could also cause market concentration being in countries with a lower risk of political disruption to the business as a whole, including impact upon financing instability and civil unrest.
arrangements both Group and local, and could also have a short-term The alignment of our market management structures to key strategic impact on our manufacturing and supply chain operations.
drivers enables a more consistent approach to the evaluation of risks As with all businesses our route to the customer could be affected and opportunities.
by political instability, civil unrest, and sanctions, and these could Our global manufacturing and supply chain operations have crisis also have a detrimental effect on our manufacturing and supply management and contingency plans in place which are regularly chain operations.
reviewed in line with the risks to their ongoing requirements.
Financing What affects us What we do Financial market risk We have a significant level of committed debt, financed in the debt We have a strong focus on cash generation and the reduction in capital markets and bank loan markets.
We expect any future our debt over time.
required refinancing of this debt prior to maturity to be obtained from Our Group Treasury Committee GTC oversees the operation of these markets and for us to be able to rely on funds being available Group Treasury in accordance with the terms of reference set out from our bank counterparties when requested to be drawn.
A fall in certain of our credit ratings would raise the cost of our The GTC sets a framework for the treasury function to operate existing committed funding and could raise our cost of future funding within.
The framework, which is periodically fully reviewed, covers, and affect our ability to raise debt from the breadth of funders we amongst other things, financing, liquidity and risk management currently enjoy.
which includes interest rate, foreign exchange and counterparty At 30 September 2015 approximately 44 per cent of the Groups risk.
The GTC receives regular reporting on all matters covered debt was at fixed levels of interest, and therefore the Group is by the framework.
exposed to movements in interest rates which could result in higher Cash flows, financing requirements and key rating agency metrics funding costs and cash outflows on the remainder.
are regularly forecast and updated in line with business performance.
We also place cash deposits with and enter into derivative financial This information is considered alongside conditions in the debt capital transactions with a diversified group of financial institutions, and we and bank loan markets to ensure we are well placed to meet the future would be affected if those counterparties did not honour their financing needs of the Group and optimise its cost and the availability commitments.
Legal and regulatory compliance What affects us What we do Failure to comply with legislation Failure to comply with local and international laws including We closely monitor developments in international sanctions and sanctions may result in investigations.
This could cause damage actively seek external advice to ensure that we remain compliant to our reputation and has the potential for financial and criminal with them.
penalties for both the Group and individuals.
The Groups policies and standards, including our Code of Conduct, mandate that all employees must comply with legislation relevant to a UK listed company and other legislation in the countries in which we operate.
E-learning courses are provided to management and relevant employees to ensure understanding of key regulatory and compliance requirements.
Additionally, senior management certify the compliance of their area of the business with the Code of Conduct as part of an annual certification process.
Exceptions are reported and mitigating actions taken.
Steering groups exist for key areas of legal compliance to provide expert advice in the development of policy, process, training and monitoring of compliance.
28 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 28 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Legal and regulatory compliance continued What affects us What we do Tobacco and e-vapour products litigation Tobacco litigation claims are pending against the Group in a number To date, no tobacco litigation claim brought against the Group of countries.
has been successful and or resulted in the recovery of damages.
More claims may be brought in the future, including claims for The American cigarette brands acquired in the year have been personal injury and the recovery of medical costs allegedly incurred acquired without historic product liabilities and with an indemnity in treating smokers.
Claims may also be brought against the Group from Reynolds in respect of any liabilities relating to the period in relation to the use of e-vapour products.
The USA, the jurisdiction prior to acquisition.
with the greatest prevalence of smoking and health-related litigation, We employ internal and external lawyers specialising in the defence is also now a key country for the Group.
If any claim were to be of product liability and consumer protection law litigation to provide successful, it might result in a significant liability for damages and advice and guidance on defence strategies and to direct and might lead to further claims against us.
Regardless of the outcome, manage litigation risk and monitor potential claims around the Group.
the costs of defending such claims can be substantial and may not be fully recoverable.
Significant market positions Our significant market position in certain countries could result The Groups policies and standards, including our Code of Conduct, in investigations and adverse regulatory action by relevant mandate that all employees must comply with competition laws in competition authorities, including the potential for monetary the countries in which we operate.
We provide training and guidance to relevant employees detailing the obligations and requirements of competition laws.
We employ experienced internal and external lawyers specialising in competition law to provide advice and guidance regarding interpretation of and compliance with competition laws.
In the event of any investigation which may or may not result in actions being brought against us, we cooperate fully with the relevant authority making the investigation.
Material strategic initiatives What affects us What we do In order to achieve its strategic objectives, the Group may be The Group operates a formal project sign-off approach, ensuring required to undertake material initiatives, including acquisitions an appropriate and transparent review and selection of project and change programmes.
proposals aligned to the Groups strategic and operational objectives.
The Group also operates within a regulatory environment that To support the successful delivery of material initiatives within can require the implementation of material initiatives to address the organisation the Group has developed and implemented changing legal requirements.
a standardised project management process that provides a robust framework to enable effective change management.
In particular, on 12 June 2015 we completed the acquisition of certain American cigarette and e-cigarette brands and assets This approach is adopted across the Group and provides a previously owned by Reynolds and Lorillard.
The integration of the consistent and disciplined approach to the management of material acquired assets could involve particular challenges and require initiatives, supported by the employment of project managers across management attention that would otherwise be devoted to running the Group to ensure the right skills are available to successfully our business, and we may be unable to realise the potential benefits deliver such initiatives.
of the acquisition to the extent envisaged and within the timeframe The majority of the Groups material change programmes are contemplated.
This could have an adverse effect on the expected coordinated under a single umbrella programme, ensuring revenue, profit and financial condition of the Group.
alignment of deliverables management of interdependencies, and limiting the impact of change upon our operational activities.
The OPEX receives regular reporting on the progress of key projects.
This provides a continuing assessment of deliverables in changing markets, and the evaluation of interdependencies across the business.
In respect of the USA acquisition, we have a strong track record of successfully integrating acquired businesses into the Group and, building on this previous experience, we put in place senior integration resources and a strong management team for the enlarged USA business.
We were also able to utilise the period since entering into the acquisition agreement in July 2014 to put in place detailed and comprehensive integration plans that we were then able to begin execution of immediately upon completion.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 29 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Whilst the Board has no reason to believe the Group will not be viable Viability Statement over a longer period, the period over which the Board considers it The Board has assessed the prospects of the Company over a possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Groups longerlonger period than the 12 months required by the going concern term viability, based on the risk and sensitivity analysis undertaken, requirements of the Code.
This longer-term assessment process is the three-year period to September 2018.
This period reflects the supports the Boards statements on both viability, as set out below, period used for the Groups business plans and has been selected and going concern, made on page 20. because, together with the planning process set out above, it gives management and the Board sufficient, realistic visibility on the future The Groups annual corporate planning processes include in the context of the industry environment.
The Board has considered completion of a strategic review, preparation of a three-year business whether it is aware of any specific relevant factors beyond the threeplan and a rolling re-forecast of current year business performance year horizon and confirmed that there are none.
During the year, additional business plans and financial projections were prepared to specifically consider the The Board confirms that its assessment of the principal risks facing prospects of the enlarged USA business, and its impact on the the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, Groups future performance and funding requirements, both prior future performance, solvency and or liquidity, and which are set out to and following completion of the acquisition of certain USA assets in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 25 to 30 in June 2015. was robust.
The plans and projections prepared as part of these corporate On the basis of this robust assessment of the principal risks facing planning processes consider the Groups cash flows, committed the Group, and on the assumption that they are managed or funding and liquidity positions, forecast future funding requirements, mitigated in the ways disclosed, the Boards review of the business banking covenants and other key financial ratios, including those plan and other matters considered and reviewed during the year, relevant to maintaining our investment grade ratings.
and the results of the sensitivity analysis undertaken and described above, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company Where appropriate, sensitivity analysis is undertaken to stress-test the will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they resilience of the Group and its business model to the potential impact fall due over the period to September 2018. of the Groups principal risks, or a combination of those risks.
This stress-testing takes account of the availability and effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could realistically be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks.
In considering the likely effectiveness of such actions, the conclusions of the Boards regular monitoring and review of risk management and internal control systems, as described on page 40, is taken into account.
30 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 30 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015
