32 IMI plc Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has responsibility for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is prepared to accept to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
The Executive Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board for implementing and monitoring internal controls and other elements of risk management systems.
The Executive Committee operates alongside the Audit Committee, which has primary responsibility for oversight of financial controls, the Nominations Committee, which has primary responsibility for succession risk, and the Remuneration Committee, which has primary responsibility for remuneration and incentive structure risk.
In 2014 a new risk management process was piloted across Group risk profile and actions undertaken to ensure compliance the Group which for the first time required our principal business with the enhanced requirements of the UK Corporate Governance units to produce detailed risk profiles.
Following the successful Code were submitted to the Board.
The Board explicitly pilot exercise, Group-wide deployment of the new risk profile was considers the risks associated with the Groups strategic completed in March 2015.
Each site is now required to develop objectives and the risks involved in specific investment and maintain a current risk profile, which identifies the key risks decisions, including acquisitions and divestments.
Every risk is assessed, rated and appropriate Through these processes the significant risks facing the business mitigating procedures and, where necessary, improvement are identified, assessed and ranked according to their likelihood actions are developed.
Specific key performance indicators and impact on the business and, following Executive review, the KPIs are tracked for each risk and site management are Board is able to actively monitor the measures used to mitigate, required to review progress on a monthly basis.
Site level risk transfer or avoid such risks.
Risk appetite across the range of profiles are uploaded to the Group intranet every six months Group strategic objectives is also reviewed by the Board.
and then consolidated into divisional risk registers and ultimately the Group risk register.
During 2015 all required business units In addition to strategic, operational and compliance risks, completed and uploaded their risk profile, demonstrating strong the Group is also exposed to broader financial market risks process adherence and a high level of management commitment.
including credit risk, liquidity risk, counter party risk, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
Each Divisional Managing Director reviewed and approved their A description of these risks and our centralised approach business unit risk profiles and as part of this review process to managing them is described in section 4.4 of the calibrated risk assessment across their division, assessed local financial statements.
management mitigating procedures and tracked the status of improvement actions.
Once complete, the most significant The key strategic and operational risks facing the Group are business unit level risks were consolidated into a summarised shown in the table on pages 33 to 35.
This analysis includes divisional risk profile, including any additional divisional level a description of the risk and the potential impact for the Group, risks as appropriate.
a summary of the mitigation actions, the risk movement and the main changes during 2015.
The three divisional risk profiles were subsequently consolidated into a single Group risk profile and the divisional and consolidated Group risk profiles were presented at Executive Committee meetings in the second half of 2015.
The senior leadership team reviewed the most pertinent risks facing the IMI Group.
This review, the supporting risk profiles and a detailed analysis of the Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION MACRO-ECONOMIC The Group operates in global markets and Divisional management monitor key customers and respond quickly to INSTABILITY demand for our products is dependent on changes in customer demand.
GLOBAL ECONOMIC OR a number of economic and sector-facing Our core forecasting process utilises early indications of reduced demand POLITICAL INSTABILITY environments.
A downturn in a regional and the operational output can be right sized appropriately.
IMPACTING THE GROUPS economy or a political event could impact The Group operates in all main regional markets and our strategy is to ABILITY TO ACHIEVE end-market demand and result in reductions FORECAST AND MARKET ensure that we have a balanced portfolio of markets to ensure we are in revenue and profit.
EXPECTATIONS not too dependent on any one region or market.
Enhanced stress testing and sensitivity analysis of business plans with regular reviews of key market and sector metrics.
RISK MOVEMENT CHANGES DURING 2015 Economic and market conditions have become increasingly challenging with weakness in Brazil and slower growth in China coupled with lower activity in Oil & Gas and Nuclear Power generation.
The Group continues to increase investment in new product development and improve operational performance to enhance competitiveness.
To mitigate, where practical, the impact of current market weakness, Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering are reviewing a number of cost-reduction initiatives which will be introduced in 2016.
MAJOR PROJECT The Group will undertake a number of major Continued upgrade of resources to manage projects including the IMPLEMENTATION change projects in line with our strategic introduction of new Group-wide core processes.
objectives including: business reorganisations FAILURE TO DELIVER MAJOR Detailed plans with clear and measurable milestones reviewed by TRANSFORMATIONAL PROJECTS and implementation of IT systems.
Failure the Divisional Managing Directors to track progress.
ON TIME AND ON BUDGET to deliver the desired objectives and failure Regular review of major project progress by the Executive Committee.
to react quickly enough to changing market Enhanced risk assessment process including full mitigation action plans conditions, could have an adverse financial RISK for all major change projects.
MOVEMENT Specialist IT and Group Assurance reviews of major IT projects.
The Group has a similar volume of major change projects compared to 2014, with the majority now relating to business CHANGES DURING 2015 re-organisations and IT system implementations.
All significant projects receive substantial senior management oversight in the form of bi-weekly Executive project reviews to deliver the objectives which were approved at project initiation, to ensure they remain on track and are adequately resourced.
PRODUCT QUALITY The Group prides itself on the innovative Implementation of Group-wide standard for advanced product quality engineering solutions we provide our planning APQP programme.
QUALITY ISSUES LEADING TO customers.
The quality and safety of our PRODUCT FAILURE, RECALL, Continued focus on adherence to existing quality management systems, WARRANTY ISSUES, INJURY, products is of the highest importance including audits to appropriate quality standards.
DAMAGE OR DISRUPTION TO and failure to deliver the quality required Testing of finished product and customer sign off on the most critical CUSTOMERS BUSINESS would result in negative financial and of products.
Targeted lean events to improve quality and application of problem RISK solving tools to address significant re-occurring quality issues per site.
MOVEMENT Upgrade of talent and focus on functional excellence in quality and product development.
Processes to mitigate the reputational and legal implications of product failures.
CHANGES DURING 2015 Customers continue to insist on more onerous contractual terms relating to product quality and performance.
The Group has implemented a new APQP process across all manufacturing operations.
Significant progress has been made embedding standard work and lean tools such a poka-yoke quality system with the goal of achieving zero defects, which will reduce the likelihood of issues arising.
Introduction of Obeya rooms in Critical Engineering and the addition of a global standard IMI Norgren quality system in Precision Engineering will add significantly to systems integrity and performance monitoring.
ACQUISITION RISK Resourced central M&A function working with our divisions to identify An important part of our growth agenda is to hard and soft synergies within targeted acquisition opportunities.
make acquisitions that complement or extend FAILURE TO INTEGRATE ACQUISITIONS SUCCESSFULLY our product portfolio.
Failure to implement the Formalised acquisition approval, due diligence and post-acquisition AND DELIVER THE REQUIRED post integration strategy would reduce the integration processes.
Weekly review of the 100 day post-acquisition plan with the integration team to track progress, led by the Divisional Managing Director.
RISK MOVEMENT The revised acquisition integration process introduced in 2014 which was used for the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther at the start CHANGES DURING 2015 of 2015 will ensure efficiency synergies are maximised.
This revised and formalised process has improved the visibility and rigour of delivery of the planned synergies.
34 IMI plc Principal Risks and Uncertainties contd RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION SUPPLY CHAIN The Group has a significant number of Monitoring of risks and development of contingency plans to mitigate contracts with a broad base of suppliers.
the impact of a supplier failure or increased prices.
FAILURE TO MANAGE THE SUPPLY CHAIN Failure to meet customers requirements in Review of supply base to reduce over-reliance on key suppliers.
respect of quality or delivery, could have a Adequate safety stock and or dual supply for critical components.
material impact on the Groups results.
RISK Supplier scorecard process to monitor performance, capability MOVEMENT and resilience.
CHANGES DURING 2015 Continued collaboration across divisions to share knowledge of suppliers and use of standardised scorecards to monitor trends in key supplier performance.
Introduction of value engineering programmes across divisions.
Introduction of global agreements to leverage Group purchase and ensure all supplies are sourced from reputable suppliers under standard terms and pricing.
CYBER SECURITY Unapproved access to IT systems resulting Increased IT security resources and establishment of an IT security in loss of intellectual property, fraudulent steering group comprising representatives for all divisions and UNAUTHORISED ACCESS activity and theft of cash or data, business corporate offices.
TO OUR IT SYSTEMS interruption and reputational damage.
Increased cyber security awareness training for all employees, particularly with regard to fraud.
RISK Disaster recovery plans developed.
MOVEMENT Increased monitoring of IT systems.
CHANGES DURING 2015 The nature and number of security threats has increased during 2015 and the Group has responded with significant investments in sophisticated anti-virus and firewall preventative measures coupled with increased user awareness.
In addition, following a wideranging review of the Groups IT infrastructure and cyber security, the Group has agreed and funded a comprehensive Security Improvement Programme, which is currently being piloted in a number of business units before being rolled out across the Group.
REGULATORY BREACH We have set ourselves very high standards Commitment to good governance practices which are embodied in in our approach to ethics and rejection of the IMI Way.
FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH LEGISLATION OR A BREACH OF corruption in business.
We need to ensure, Further enhancement of the internal controls declaration process and OUR OWN HIGH STANDARDS as we expand our operations to achieve our continued rigorous financial audits by our Group Assurance team.
OF ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR desired growth, that we maintain these high The annual IMI Way Day was held in June across the Group and included standards.
We face legislation around tax, face-to-face training for all employees.
anti-bribery, fraud and competition law and RISK need to ensure compliance to avoid financial Policies, manuals, training and guidelines are available to all employees under MOVEMENT and reputational damage.
the legal and compliance and financial sections of the IMI global intranet.
Group, division and specific territory resources dedicated to legal and regulatory compliance.
Training of employees focusing on how to apply the IMI Way in everyday situations and key risk areas such as competition law, fraud and antibribery and corruption.
Availability and promotion of the whistle blowing policy and the confidential IMI hotline to report concerns.
Group standard operating procedures are available on the intranet and increased rigour around core legal and compliance processes.
Enhanced third party agent due diligence and approval procedures, standard agency agreements and terminated non-compliant agents.
CHANGES DURING 2015 Whilst the external regulatory environment is increasingly arduous, our process and procedures are more embedded throughout the business.
During 2015 we significantly enhanced our due diligence and approval procedures for sales agents and have organised our legal and compliance resources under a divisional structure so that they are now an integral part of our operational management teams.
COMPETITIVE MARKETS Increased volatility and slowdown in Review of site capacity as part of the lean benchmarking process and to major economies may result in increased obtain better utilisation and improved productivity.
INCREASINGLY COMPETITIVE competition, leading to loss of customers MARKETS LEADING TO Rigorous review of standard costings to ensure thorough understanding PRICING PRESSURES OR and or pricing pressures leading to lost of product cost.
LOSS OF CUSTOMERS sales and reduced profits.
Monitoring of markets to ensure cost competitiveness and market shares understood and managed.
RISK MOVEMENT Formal market, competitor and peer reviews undertaken quarterly.
CHANGES DURING 2015 Increased macro-economic pressures have increased competitive and pricing risks.
Formal new product introduction procedures, improvements in operational capabilities, routine teardown testing and competitive benchmarking of competitor products have placed the Group in a better position to respond to these challenges.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The Groups strategy to double operating Implementation of Group-wide standard for advanced APQP programme.
profit is underpinned by organic growth, LACK OF INNOVATION OR Five year technology roadmaps included in divisional strategies.
DEVELOPMENT OF A PIPELINE which will be achieved in part by delivering Continued investment in research and development, working with our key OF NEW PRODUCTS a pipeline of innovative new products.
account management teams to ensure we meet our customer needs.
Failure to achieve this objective will impact our ability to grow.
Centres of design and technological excellence established in a number RISK of locations with dedicated teams to monitor progress.
MOVEMENT New product introduction procedures in place.
Tracking of key performance metrics level of sales from new products and level of research and development spend against sales.
CHANGES DURING 2015 A new advanced product quality planning process was launched across the Group which had been developed and piloted in Hydronic Engineering.
Fifteen new products in Hydronic Engineering generated 30m of sales in 2015.
Five year regional plans including new product priorities were established for the industrial engineering sector and roadmaps were included as an integral component of divisional strategies.
HEALTH, SAFETY & The Group recognises our duty of care to our Application of lean manufacturing principles into an improved HSE ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROLS employees and other stakeholders.
Whilst assessment and audit process including 5S housekeeping methodology FAILURE OF HEALTH, SAFETY we have made great progress in recent years for manufacturing areas and Gemba walks management walks in AND ENVIRONMENTAL HSE we understand the impact on our employees manufacturing areas.
CONTROLS RESULTING IN HARM and other stakeholders from the failure of this Improved standard work processes, new lifting and slinging procedures TO EMPLOYEES OR OTHER obligation and therefore consider this a key and improved planning around plant layout.
Failure of controls could result in injury, Global process in place to ensure that HSE matters are appropriately death and environmental damage with the monitored and addressed and risks minimised including monthly reporting RISK consequential impact of reputational damage to, and review at the Executive Committee.
MOVEMENT and risk of regulator action.
Group and divisional level HSE resource proactively manage and audit divisional HSE performance and provide guidance and support to site management.
CHANGES DURING 2015 We measure progress by tracking lost time accidents LTAs, medical incidents and near misses.
In 2015, the Group implemented an improved HSE audit process, incorporating similar methodology to our lean manufacturing benchmark and audit process.
These reviews are undertaken more frequently and improve hazard detection across sites in different divisions and regions.
Risk appetite The Board has considered the Groups risk appetite and it is deemed to be appropriate to pursuing and achieving our strategic objectives.
Specific risk exposures and appetites vary according to the nature of the risk.
Details on risk appetite are communicated to the Divisional Managing Directors and the Groups Executive Committee to ensure that decision making and behaviours across the business are consistent with the guidance set by the Board.
Improved risk management processes have meant that the identification and mitigation of risks are now well-embedded within the operating protocols across our businesses.
36 IMI plc Performance Precision Engineering review prototype tooling skills help accelerate new product launches IMI Critical Engineering Critical Engineering made significant progress towards achieving its strategic objectives in a tough market environment.
38 IMI Precision Engineering Precision Engineering advanced a number of strategic initiatives including rationalising the product portfolio, improving operational performance and implementing a new system of product development.
40 IMI Hydronic Engineering Hydronic Engineering delivered positive results and a number of new market-leading products despite a still challenging European environment.
42 Above Final testing of valve assemblies at IMI CCI Korea Right State of the art test technology in our Olkusz, Poland facility Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Engineering GREAT the IMI Way
