OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Regulator External Audit RISK MANAGEMENT The results of the self-assessment are reviewed by the relevant In this section we outline the risks we face centres of excellence and reported to the Audit Committee.
across our business and our approach to Additionally a year end certification process is completed, under managing them.
which management confirms that risk mitigation controls have operated effectively throughout the year, or that appropriate further mitigating actions are being taken to address control weaknesses.
Our Approach This certification process also includes confirmation that entities have complied with our policies, including the Code of Conduct and antiOur ability to achieve our strategic objectives and capitalise on growth bribery requirements, as well as fraud prevention processes.
As a opportunities requires effective management of the risks we face.
separate exercise, all our senior managers are required to certify Our risk management system is designed to identify risks that could that related party transactions have been disclosed.
prevent the achievement of strategic objectives as early as possible, Our people have the opportunity to make confidential disclosures and to ensure that appropriate and agreed mitigation is in place.
The about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing via an independent approach seeks to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to external service Speaking Up, details of which have been translated achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not into 41 languages and can be found in the Investors section of our absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
risks do crystallise, we respond immediately to reduce the impact of that risk and ensure that the causes and consequences have In accordance with the recommendations of the FRCs UK Corporate been evaluated and any wider implications assessed.
Governance code formerly known as the Combined Code for Directors, the Groups systems of internal control are designed and Our risk management approach provides a framework which allows operated to support the identification, evaluation and management for the identification and management of Group risks, and the risks of risks affecting the Group.
They facilitate the effective and efficient specific to a location.
In a business with a global market footprint as operation of our business, provide assurance regarding the integrity diverse as ours, it is imperative that resource is directed at the most of our internal reporting and are designed to comply with relevant relevant risks and locations and that our management are sufficiently laws and regulations, across all areas of operations.
These systems supported to achieve positive outcomes.
This approach is integrated are subject to continuous review as circumstances change and new into both our business planning, and viability assessment processes, risks emerge.
ensuring that risks are considered in these activities.
Our risk management approach continues to develop, ensuring In the current year we have made a number of improvements to the we continue to identify, manage and monitor the risks we face.
risk management approach, including the introduction of a control self-assessment process within the business which provides management with a means of understanding requirements and accountability for the effective operation of key controls.
Risk Management Framework Board & Committees Operating Executive st nd rd 1 line of defence 2 line of defence 3 line of defence Management Centres of excellence control Financial oversight Internal Audit Operationalise policies, Risk management procedures, training Group committees and standards Process and control Embed and monitor effective risk management, implementation and legal compliance, and related assurance processes development Code of Conduct defines the culture of the organisation and sets the standards of business practice within which our people perform their roles Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 25 RISK MANAGEMENT continued Operational Management Risk Management Framework Across the business, operational management is responsible for We operate an integrated approach, aligned to the three lines of the implementation and monitoring of the Groups processes defence model to ensure that our operational management has and systems of control.
This includes ensuring that our people the tools, knowledge, and support to manage risks as part of its have appropriate training and knowledge to perform their roles business as usual business processes.
in accordance with the Groups policies and standards and defined lines of accountability and delegation of authority.
Our Company Secretary is responsible for maintaining and developing the Groups framework of governance, including The Groups functional and divisional management structures our Code of Conduct, Group policies and Speaking Up enable a continuing process for the identification, evaluation and whistleblowing process.
management of significant risks to the achievement of business objectives, and support the controls in place.
The Board and Audit Committee The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups strategy and Centres of excellence related risk appetite.
In addition, the Board is accountable for In addition to the oversight provided by our management structures reviewing the effectiveness of the systems and processes of risk the Group also benefits from the work carried out by subject matter management and internal control, with the Audit Committee assisting experts it employs to manage specific financial, technical or legal and in the discharge of this responsibility.
regulatory risks, set standards and policies, share best practice and provide related training to the business.
These departments form a The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Groups risk key part of our second line of defence.
management and internal controls system and is assisted by the Groups Finance department, which, through the Risk Management These departments design and help implement appropriate control function, oversees the completion of the annual assessment of structures and monitoring in order to manage the relevant risks.
They risk management and internal control.
The Audit Committee also act as centres of excellence, providing advice and assistance reports to the Board on its activities and the process, and makes to the business to help facilitate local solutions where necessary.
recommendations and escalates significant risks or issues to the Our Group Finance department is responsible for the financial Board as appropriate.
policies and standards adopted within the Group.
It also manages While risk management and the identification of existing and our financial reporting processes to ensure the timely and accurate emerging risks are the responsibility of all our people, the Board is provision of information, which enables the Board to discharge supported in the assessment of key risks through work facilitated its responsibilities, including the production of our half-yearly and by the Groups Risk Management function.
An annual bottom-up review is undertaken by local management Group Finance is supported by a network of finance managers across the organisation which assesses our principal areas of risk throughout the Group who have the responsibility and accountability and uncertainty across each part of the business.
This assessment to provide information in keeping with our policies, procedures and includes a review of both Group and local risks, along with an internal best practices as documented in our Group Finance Manual.
assessment of the mitigating controls in place to manage the risks.
Assurance The separation of risks into Group and local classifications enables appropriate focus at both senior and local management level, and The Group Internal Audit department provides independent assists us in the identification of emerging risks.
assessment on the robustness and effectiveness of the systems and processes of risk management and control across the Group.
The calibration of risks by the Board and Operating Executive It achieves this through the completion of reviews which are ensures a consistent top-down method in how we identify, assess approved by, and reported to, the Audit Committee.
and prioritise risks, as well as assessing our existing measures to manage and mitigate those risks.
The Operating Executive OPEX The OPEX is responsible for the effective operational management and mitigation of the Groups key risks.
The successful and effective implementation of Group strategies into our operational activities is the responsibility of OPEX and its functional and divisional management teams.
These management teams are responsible for ensuring that the Groups strategic goals are achieved in line with Group policies and standards, and that we conduct business in compliance with our Code of Conduct.
This tone from the top extends to responsibility for the monitoring of operational and financial performance, the assessment and control of financial, business and operational risks and the maintenance and ongoing development of a robust control framework and environment in their areas of responsibility.
26 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 26 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015
