PROTECTING OUR BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENT By managing our risks in a professional and consistent way, we operate with true peace of mind.
Knowing that we have in place the right procedures, processes and frameworks to minimise risks from impacting our business, or to enable us to respond promptly and decisively when they do, gives us confidence in our ability to achieve our strategic objectives and support the long-term sustainable growth of our business.
Inchcape Peace of Mind our approach to risk Types of risk Our reputation as a global automotive Distributor and Retailer We identify between two broad types of risk.
The iPOM is built on our ability to take calculated risks to create value framework encompasses and defines our approach to for the Company and its shareholders, at the same time bothtypes.
Systemic risks are inherent to all processes in evaluating and managing those risks to protect that value.
These are known risks, which are largely stable, apply Group-wide and are managed through standard As a Group, we continue to experience an ever changing, policies and procedures.
Dynamic risks can impact our dynamic risk environment where economic, political, business as a result of the market or environment in which environmental, social, legal and technological changes we operate.
Dynamic risks may change in nature constantly, present a complex risk landscape which threatens our may be specic to a region, function or period of time, and ability to achieve our strategic objectives.
However, we believe therefore are managed through bespoke mitigation and that our diversity of brand portfolio and geographic spread, response plans.
combined with our strong balance sheet, cost control and risk aware decision making processes, make us resilient to How we govern risk management all but the most significant and persistent risks.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that risk All our colleagues have an inuence over the amount of is managed across the Group and to assess the risks it is risk we take as a business sometimes a great inuence, willing to take to achieve the Groups strategic goals.
Inchcape Peace of Mind iPOM is our Board undertakes a formal review of the principal risk Group-wide risk management and governance framework footprint at least annually or more frequently if required.
which focuses on empowering each and every one of our The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility from colleagues to consider the risks associated with the decisions the Board and considers risk management, internal control, they take and to balance the potential consequences of compliance and whistleblowing at every meeting.
By their actions or inactions as they take them.
Embedded in continuously reviewing, assessing and challenging iPOM our day-to-day management practices, iPOM provides a and the control framework, the Audit Committee monitors simple framework to help us identify, manage and reduce the risk appetite and culture which is embedded throughout our risks, raise awareness through education and training, the Group.
The Committee chair reports to the Board after give guidance and direction, encourage open and honest each meeting to ensure full oversight of the risks within the communication and engage our colleagues with the Groups operations.
Further information on work of the Audit understanding of risks and how to manage them, no Committee can be found on pages 57 to 60. matter where they are in the world.
Embracing iPOM is about ensuring that our strategy, initiatives and decision making balance performance with conformance: in essence making the right decisions in the right way to manage the risks we face and protect the long-term value and reputation of the Group.
The iPOM framework therefore acts as a conduit to ensure that risk information ows freely throughout the business, to enable the correct decisions based on a thorough assessment of good quality information.
38 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk management governance structure Direction & Board Internal Audit Oversight Responsible for determining the Group risk appetite and oversight Review of internal of principal risks to the Groups strategic objectives controls, monitoring Policy, risk capture and Framework, mitigating actions tools Audit Committee Delegated responsibility from the Board for risk management, internal Corporate assurance controls, compliance and whistleblowing Leading continuous improvement in our risk management practices and risk Group iPOM Committee mitigation techniques Day-to-day risk management oversight sits with the Group iPOM Committee Risk Functional Assurance Information providers Identication, Market iPOM Committees evaluation, Functional assurance management, In each market, a Market iPOM Committee ensures that teams provide in-market evaluation, risk management remains a priority.
Meetings and outputs are challenge to internal mitigation, aligned with the Group iPOM Committee, Audit Committee and controls and risk monitoring Board meetings mitigation plans Management Teams Risk owners The Market iPOM Committees are the representative of iPOM Risk management in action in each of our markets.
Operating under standard terms of The Group iPOM Committee has responsibility for operational reference, and aligned with the Group, the network of Market risk oversight.
Chaired by the Group Chief Executive, the iPOM Committees helps to ensure a coherent approach to constituent members are the Chief Financial officer, Chief risk management and a consistent ow of risk information Human Resources officer, Group General Counsel, Group across the Group.
Audit Director and Group Head of Corporate Assurance.
Tools and techniques The Group iPOM Committee meets a minimum of six times a year to manage oversight of systemic and dynamic risks, The Group uses an online risk management and reporting at Group level and throughout the markets.
solution to monitor both its systemic and dynamic risks and associated action plans at Group level and at market level.
The remit of the iPOM Committee is broad, but its core This, along with the iPOM risk management dashboard focus areas are to ensure: reviewed at both Group and Market level ensures the There is an appropriate mechanism in place to identify correct focus on risk management and mitigation at all the most pressing risks the Group faces.
management levels of the business.
Management teams have the correct focus on those risks, and in particular action plans to mitigate or respond to those risks.
A compliance programme is in place in all markets and ofces, that meets or exceeds external benchmarks and is appropriate in terms of legal requirements, content, sector, cost and resources.
Internal controls are appropriate, well designed, andoperating consistently across the Group.
The Groups fraud and whistleblowing programme is appropriately managed to reduce the risk of fraud, or respond quickly and decisively in the event the Group falls victim to fraud.
com 39 Risk Independent Review and challenge PRINCIPAL RISK CONTINUED Risk ownership In order to best address the risks we face, we categorise our risks into eight risk categories.
Each category has a dened owner who assumes operational responsibility for managing the risks in that area and reporting to the Group iPOM and Audit Committees.
Strategic Operational Risk Category Key Risk Category Key Strategic, including competitor and consumer Systems and Technology Economic, Political and Environmental People, including EH&S Legal & Regulatory Finance Risk Category Key Brand & Reputation Tax, Pensions & Insurance Risk Category Key Brand Partners, Key Relationships & Reputation Finance & Treasury Principal risks Balancing performance and conformance means that we continuously strive to seize opportunities to create value but remain safe in the knowledge we have the ability to manage risks and protect the value we create.
The principal risks to achieving our strategy are: 1 Loss of distribution contract with major OEM partner 2 significant retrenchment of credit available to customers, dealer network or Inchcape plc 3 Brand failure globally 4 Major interruption to OEM partner operations or product 5 Major loss of condential or sensitive data 6 Failure to extract maximum value from acquisition strategy 7 Growth in new routes to market and methods of engaging the customer Increasing demands and capability from our OEM partners for direct ownership of customer data restricts our ability 8 to drive demand margin 9 Non-compliance with dynamic changes in the regulatory environment 10 Interruption to iPOWER or major systems failure 11 Failure to attract, retain and develop our people 12 Failure to safeguard our customers and employees by not consistently applying EH&S standards across the Group.
13 Structural re-organisation strategy towards shared service centres increases the number of single points of failure 14 Internal controls failure sufficient to affect reputation Individual governments increasing restrictions on cross border currency movements leads to higher incidents of trapped cash 15 across the Group Dynamic changes in local or international tax rules e. g. changes to transfer pricing rules as a result of the OECDs Base Erosion 16 and profit Shifting Initiative 17 Social, political and regulatory instability in Russia and the surrounding region 18 Changes in legislation directly affect customer demand 40 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Principal risk footprint The Groups risk footprint comprises the most pressing risks that would cause the most damage to the reputation or financial strength 1 2 3 of the Company if they are not effectively evaluated, understood and 4 5 6 managed.
The risk footprint is distilled from Group-wide risk registers and is regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee, the iPOM Committee and the Board.
9 10 11 14 7 8 For management purposes, each of the principal risks on the risk footprint is broken down into the underlying causal factors and 12 13 15 specic action plans built against each of these factors according to the established 3 lines of defence model.
The key risks, which are given in detail below and on pages 42 and 43, 16 17 18 are principal risks which are regarded as the highest priority and therefore of particular focus.
A similar evaluation exists for the remaining constituent risks on the footprint.
Low Medium High Additionally, we recognise, and are actively managing, further risks identied by our comprehensive risk management process, but these Likelihood are deemed less material than the 18 principal risk factors noted on the footprint.
We understand there are additional risks not currently known to management and we continuously improve our iPOM processes to identify, evaluate and mitigate these risks.
Loss of distribution contract with major OEM partner Causal factors Impact Mitigating activity Distribution and Retail contracts are fundamental to our Loss of significant High quality operational, commercial business model.
contribution to and digital standards with multi revenue and profit.
Although our brand diversication strategy is designed to mitigate In depth, regular performance reporting this risk, an event which leads to any of these contracts being significant impact and business performance reviews.
cancelled, or not renewed, will have a significant long-term impact to reputation.
These causal factors could include but are Clear compliance and risk management Cost of business not limited to: framework in place including Minimum Control interruption Framework to address compliance issues.
Major fraud, bribery, data security or other systemic closure and staff Strong anti-fraud procedures including compliance failure.
Consistent failure to deliver to targets or standards in major Dedicated in-house business development markets or across multiple markets.
function oversees M&A and strategic direction.
Failure to deliver value proposition to OEM partners.
Connected customers a core element of Failure to deliver on growth strategy or defend our business strategic direction.
Failure to connect with customers through social media.
2. significant retrenchment of credit available to customers, dealer network or Inchcape plc Causal factors Impact Mitigating activity Another economic crash may lead to a significant constriction Adverse impact Maintenance of accounts with in global liquidity, so that funding is unavailable to the Group, oor on retail volumes.
plan nancing disappears and customer credit dries up.
Continuous monitoring of credit lines to Dealers unable to customers and independent dealer network.
New vehicle sales volumes rely on our customers, finance inventory, both end users and dealers being able to access affordable impacting Close management of credit extended credit lines.
distribution to independent dealer network including volumes.
Credit availability globally, whilst improving, remains uncertain Cash reserves maintained.
and a significant retrenchment would adversely impact New vehicle volumes.
Headroom funding model to monitor cash ow.
Underlying factors include: difficulty in securing credit for customers and oor plan nancing.
Funding unavailable, or unaffordable for the Group.
com 41 Impact Low Medium High PRINCIPAL RISK CONTINUED 3.
Brand failure globally Causal factors Impact Mitigating activity A major reputational disaster at one of our OEM partners leads Loss of reputation Internal monitoring process and response to complete failure of that partner.
of product leading plan for major incidents.
to signicantly Brand diversication strategy.
For example, a major recall or similar event causes loss reduced demand.
of product reputation and severe drop off in customer demand.
Monitoring procedures to anticipate product Loss of company recalls and quality issues.
An event of sufficient signicance could also affect the reputation reputation leading of our brand partners to the extent that viability of that brand to failure of OEM is affected.
Major interruption to OEM partner operations or product reputation Causal factors Impact Mitigating activity Our relationships with our OEM partners are crucial to our Adverse impact Monitoring of product recall events and business model.
on supply of continuous liaison with brand partners inventory.
regarding quality competitiveness of Interruptions to this supply chain, or an event which adversely product lineup.
impacts the reputation of the products we sell could have a Adverse effect on Diversication of suppliers where possible.
knock on effect on our revenues, margins or reputation.
Incident response and business continuity Specic incidents could include: plan in place.
Damage to product reputation in light of product recalls.
Lobbying and communication with OEM partners regarding competitiveness of models.
significant failure in the supply chain for key components or products.
Major loss of condential or sensitive data Causal factors Impact Mitigating activity As a business we hold a large amount of condential data Impact on Clearly understood data protection standards pertaining to ourselves, as well as our customers and OEM partners.
relationship Global cyber security steering committee Whilst we only hold and use this data for the purposes of and erosion in place.
continuously improving the customer experience we recognise our of reputation.
responsibility to protect this information and preserve its integrity.
Information assets dened and security Adverse financial controls benchmarked to ensure best practice.
Failure to protect condential or sensitive data, whether held impact as a result Clear IT security policies and procedures.
electronically or otherwise, could result in significant operational and of fines and reputational damage.
ITGC minimum standards developed sanctions.
Failure to extract maximum value from acquisition strategy Causal factors Impact Mitigating activity Inchcape complements its organic growth agenda by pursuing inefficient or Internal Group strategy team run inorganic growth through acquisition.
ineffective use of acquisition process.
Central synergy plan developed to inform Failure to identify and acquire the right targets, and efficiently business development activity and due integrate new businesses into our operation will adversely Lost revenue diligence.
impact our ability to recognise the synergies and benets opportunities.
Adverse impact Due diligence performed in advance on on control all acquisitions.
Post acquisition reviews and detailed integration processes.
42 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7.
Growth in new routes to market and methods of engaging the customer Causal factors Impact Mitigating activity The growth of online platforms to interact with customers presents Volume and Connected customer a core part of strategy, in equal terms real opportunity to improve the customer offering, margin are including controlled use of social media as whilst at the same time presenting new risks around data protection, adversely a communications channel.
maintenance of standards and customer engagement through, impacted across Business performance reviews and regular for example, social media.
Over the longer time horizon, major our markets.
new competitors are likely to enter the market as the lines between Adverse impact Continue to closely monitor developments automotive and technology become ever more blurred, threatening on value of retail in new technologies.
Review investment opportunities in nontraditional automotive markets.
Increasing demands from brand partners for direct ownership of data e. g. connected customer restricts our ability to drive demand margin Causal factors Impact Mitigating activity Changing Continuous review of operating procedures In the current connected environment there is an attitudes and commercial offering to ensure potential increasing trend from our brand partners to have to vehicle is maximised.
both the appetite and the capability to reach out ownership affect Continuing dialogue with OEM partners to to our customer base directly, in effect bypassing the New vehicle sales build awareness of the commercial benefit relationship between the retailer and even the distributor into the long term.
of our involvement in the process.
in favour of a direct relationship with the brand partner.
The objective is to drive efficiency across their network.
Reduced ability However, this may reduce the quality and intensity of to drive demand the relationship that we as an intermediary hold with margin.
our customers and impact our ability to drive demand Loss of customer and margin through CRM.
relationships and possibly reduction in loyalty.
Viability statement The Board has assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period than 12 months when considering going concern.
This longer-term assessment supports the Boards statements on both viability, as set out in this section of the Annual Report, and going concern statement made on page 79.
The plans and projections prepared as part of the Groups annual strategic planning process consider the Groups cash ows, committed and uncommitted funding positions, forecast future funding requirements and lending covenants.
As a component part of the strategic planning process, the Board adopts a rigorous approach to the identication of the principal risks facing the Group and to the monitoring of the actions taken to mitigate these risks as outlined in this report.
The Board has prioritised a subset of these principal risks for the purposes of assessing the longer-term viability of the Group.
The three risks modelled for the purpose are the loss of a major OEM distribution contract globally: the global collapse of an OEM partner: and a systemic loss of global credit and liquidity impacting both the Groups access to inventory and nancing and our customers ability to finance vehicle purchases.
Sensitivity analysis is undertaken to stress-test the resilience of the Group and its business model.
Whilst the Board has no reason to believe that the Group will not be viable over a longer period, the period over which the Board considers it possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Groups longer-term viability based on the risk and sensitivity analysis is the three-year period to December 2018.
The key assumption underpinning our ongoing viability is the continuation of our relationships with our OEM partners.
The Board believes that whilst some OEM contracts may be less than three years, it is reasonable to expect that, over a three-year time horizon, a sufficient number of contracts will have been renewed or replaced such that the Company will continue in viable operation.
On the basis of an assessment of the principal risks, and on the assumption that the principal risks set out on pages 40 to 43 are managed and mitigated in the ways described and based on the Boards review of the strategic plan and the results of the sensitivity analysis undertaken, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to December 2018. inchcape.
