02 Performance and risk Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties In the tables below, the following key applies: Risk assessed to have increased since last year Risk assessed to have stayed the same as last year Risk assessed to have decreased since last year Risk description Mitigation comments Change Gas availability across our portfolio may decline Estimates and methodology for gas availability faster than anticipated due to inaccurate and forecasting were independently reviewed 1 estimates, changes in waste volumes including prior to the IPO in November 2013.
The results early landfill site closure or mix, resulting in of the independent review were consistent Landfill gas lower revenues and impairment of the carrying with managements estimates.
The proportion of closed sites Managements estimates are updated at least in our portfolio will increase over the next five annually in line with the annual reporting cycle years, either in line with the national trend to reflect latest waste volumes mix and tipping driven by the Landfill Directive or as a result of plans provided by landfill operators.
early landfill closure due to declining margins We have a strong track record of forecasting as a result of increasing landfill tax.
Over the last five years output from landfill gas has varied between plus and minus 2% compared with budget.
Infinis is the largest landfill gas generator in the UK, operating across a number of sites throughout the country.
In the event of early closure of sites by a landfill operator, waste may be diverted to another site from which Infinis extracts landfill gas.
We do not own any of our operating sites To date we have a 100% success rate for and are dependent on lease arrangements.
2 Failure to renew expiring leases could result Infinis has a dedicated compliance function in a reduction in revenues.
to monitor compliance with our environmental Failure to Failure to comply with existing lease terms obligations e. g. maintaining permits.
extend could result in early termination resulting in In the year ended 31 March 2015 we completed leases early a reduction in revenues.
an improvement programme to streamline our termination royalties payment process and to improve the level of service provided to counterparties.
A significant proportion of revenues derived Although year-on-year revenues will be more from RO sales is dependent on wholesale volatile than has historically been the case, as 3 power prices.
Due to the volatility of wholesale a result of the migration of LFG output from power prices, our revenues are likely to be the NFFO to RO regime, all-in prices achieved Increasing more volatile than has been the case historically, from RO sales are significantly higher.
proportion when a greater proportion of our revenues A significant proportion of revenue obtained were derived from fixed price NFFO contracts.
of revenues from RO sales is fixed and increases annually dependent The proportion of Group revenue derived by RPI.
We mitigate shortto medium-term from wind generation is expected to increase wholesale power price volatility by selling ahead on wholesale as we deliver on our growth agenda.
We have a proportion of our expected LFG output at power prices historically sold wind output under long-term fixed prices.
sales agreements, where the price is referenced All of our existing wind generation has been to day-ahead wholesale power prices.
Due to accredited under the RO regime, with a significant the volatility of wholesale power prices and proportion of expected revenue fixed and intermittency of wind, our revenues are likely increasing annually by RPI.
Exposure to the to be more volatile than has been the case wholesale power price element in a number historically.
of our existing wind farms is mitigated by a 30 MWh floor price included in long-term sales agreements.
New wind farms will either be accredited under the RO regime or under the CfD regime currently being introduced which offers fixed prices.
Our latest wind developments AChruach and Galawhistle are expected to be accredited under the RO regime and we have entered into a long-term sales agreement in respect of AChruach which will allow us to fix a proportion of expected output up to three years ahead at fixed prices.
A similar contracting arrangement is planned for Galawhistle.
25 PERFORMANCE AND RISK Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk description Mitigation comments Change We sell our generation output and related We enter into contracts with creditworthy products to a small number of UK counterparties counterparties and continue to seek to add 4 under a variety of contractual arrangements.
additional counterparties to reduce concentration Failure of a counterparty to honour a contract risk.
We are also exploring alternative routes to Counterparty may result in loss of revenue for power already market.
risk delivered or, for power not yet delivered, Additional credit support e. g. parent company a loss of future revenue where we are unable guarantees and or letters of credit may be to enter into a replacement contract with required from counterparties which fail to another counterparty.
meet agreed credit rating criteria.
We maintain a strong focus on working capital management which ensures that any potential loss for power already delivered is minimised.
Electricity prices are determined by a number A significant proportion of our revenue is fixed and of factors including electricity demand and increases annually in line with inflation.
5 the price of certain commodities oil, gas, coal We reduce shortto medium-term revenue and carbon.
In the wider electricity market, volatility by selling a proportion of our Commodity commodity prices have a direct impact on the expected generation forward at fixed prices price risk cost of generation and therefore electricity in accordance with our trading strategy.
As we are a price taker and do not set Our largest single cost item is the royalties we pay the price of electricity, our revenues will be to land owners which are directly correlated with impacted by changes in commodity prices.
revenues and therefore naturally hedged.
Although we have sufficient liquidity to meet The Group has no refinancing risk until 2019 and our current needs, our plan to build 130 MW to has a 50 million three year revolving credit 6 150 MW of new wind capacity by March 2017 facility in place.
is dependent on being able to raise new debt.
We have experience of raising project finance and Funding risk If we are unable to do so then our ability to are well known to lenders until we refinanced our grow the business may be threatened.
operational wind portfolio in October 2013 with a single facility, we operated ten separate project finance facilities provided by nine lenders.
In November 2014 we confirmed that we had completed the financing of AChruach wind farm which is currently under construction.
We are currently raising funds to support the construction of a wind farm to be built at Galawhistle.
We are dependent on regulatory support for our Over the years the UK has made several changes existing generating capacity, through the NFFO to the support mechanisms for renewable power 7 and RO regimes, for a significant proportion of but has adopted a consistent grandfathering our revenues.
Changes to this support could approach throughout.
There are no indications Changes in have a material impact on our revenues.
that this approach will change.
government Continued regulatory support is required for our For all of our wind developments expected to support for plans to build 130 MW to 150 MW of new wind be constructed under the CfD regime we have renewables capacity by 2017.
New wind farms commissioned assumed lower prices being achieved than under after 2017 will receive support under new the RO regime.
Expenditure is only incurred on arrangements the CfD regime, with a three new developments where we believe we will meet year transition period between 2014 and 2017. our investment hurdle rates.
Prices achieved in competitive CfD auctions may The UK requires additional renewable generation not meet our investment hurdle rates resulting to meet its binding 2020 targets.
We will continue in stranded development assets.
to engage with government, through industry The recently elected Conservative government trade bodies, on the advantages of continued is expected to be less supportive of renewable on-shore wind investment as being the lowest energy than the previous coalition government cost source of renewable energy.
and in particular on providing support for new on-shore wind farm construction.
Weather impacts both demand for electricity Although wind is increasing as a proportion of and our ability to generate.
Weather can have a total generating capacity, LFG remains significant 8 small impact on LFG production but has a much due to a combination of higher installed capacity greater impact on wind.
As wind assumes an and its base load-like characteristics.
Weather ever greater share of our generating capacity, We have sufficient liquidity to ensure we are able output volatility is likely to increase resulting in to continue to meet all of our commitments greater revenue volatility.
regardless of wind revenue volatility for the foreseeable future.
26 26 03 CSR Infinis Ener Infinis Energy plc Annual r gy plc Annual report and ac eport and acc counts 20 ounts 2015 15 03 Corporate and social responsibility Committed to a better future 27
