PERFORMANCE AND RISK Risk management The aim of our risk management Functions formally review the f plans and annual budgets which policy is to: management of risks under their will deliver the Groups strategy, ownership and report to the Executive supported by regular reporting of f improve decision making and Management Team on a half-yearly performance against these plans increase the likelihood that the basis.
The Executive Management and budgets to the Board.
This Groups objectives will be achieved: Team reviews the functional risk includes both financial and nonregisters for completeness, material financial measures: f reduce the probability that events which have arisen since the damaging events will occur: and f promotion of an open culture: last review, and monitors agreed mitigation measures.
f if damaging events do occur, f a culture of continuous the effect is minimised.
improvement which ensures we The functional risk registers are learn from any incidents or control merged, together with any additional Risk management accountability weaknesses identified: and risks identified by the Executive The Board is responsible for the Management Team, to create a Groups system of risk management f assurance arrangements to consolidated risk report for the and internal control which is ensure policies and procedures Group, which the Chief Executive continuous, collaborative and are adhered to.
reports to the Audit Committee designed to eliminate or manage and the Board, highlighting material the risk of failure to achieve the Assurance arrangements include a changes in risk profile, any recent Groups objectives.
programme of internal audit reviews material events which have tested of different aspects of the Groups the risk management process and The Audit Committee undertakes activities in accordance with an responses to those events.
an annual assessment of the internal audit plan agreed by the effectiveness of risk management Audit Committee on behalf of the In addition to the half-yearly review and internal controls prior to Board.
The internal audit plan is of risk registers, the Executive consideration by the Board.
There reviewed annually by the Audit Management Team considers is a programme for regular reviews Committee and ensures that, over a each month whether any new risks of risks and the identification and two to three year cycle, all material have materialised or deteriorated.
implementation of mitigating actions aspects of the Groups business To ensure that understanding and throughout the Group which is are reviewed to ensure appropriate managing risk is at the core of monitored by the Audit Committee.
internal controls are in place and how we operate, results of the operating effectively and, where risk management process are The Executive Directors of Infinis appropriate, improvements made.
embedded in the Groups systems Energy Holdings Limited and and procedures where appropriate its subsidiaries the Executive The Board confirms that no significant and periodic briefings made to Management Team have functional failings or weaknesses have been our management team.
day-to-day responsibility for identified in the Groups system of risk identification, analysis and internal controls in the year ended Internal control management.
The Group has a comprehensive system of internal controls which Our approach to risk management operates in parallel with the risk is embedded within our internal management process.
The main control framework and governance elements of the Groups internal arrangements and is an integral part control system comprise: of the day-to-day management of the business.
f a well defined governance structure within which the Risk management process Group operates: Each business function has responsibility for maintaining its own f clearly defined delegated risk register to identify and manage levels of authority: risk.
These registers identify risks, the main risk owner, shared responsibilities, f documentation and the inherent risk profile before any communication of policies mitigation, and the residual risk profile and key business processes: taking into account current and planned mitigation.
