STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Principal risks are risks the Group considers would have the most impact on Informas strategic objectives.
They have been robustly assessed in the context of the external and internal risk and control landscape.
The Board of Directors has reviewed and approved the principal risks, and considered them in the formulation of the Long-Term Viability Statement on page 21.
STRATEGIC RISKS Risk Description Mitigating activities 20142017 Growth may not be delivered within There are defined structures in place to support and deliver GROWTH theexpected timeline or at a rate theGrowth Acceleration Plan.
ACCELERATION thatwill cover investment costs, PLAN leading to reputational impact.
A Steering Committee directs the overall programme to ensure it meets its objectives of accelerated growth underpinned by IMPACT operational fitness, strengthened capabilities and better Failure of the Growth Acceleration Plan customer experience.
would have a major impact on the Groups ability to deliver its stated A central Design Authority controls the finances available to corporate growth objectives.
There is each project and ensures the quality of each project.
Projects potential for reputational damage within progress through stage gates at which point the release of the investor community leading to an funding is approved or denied.
impaired ability to obtain, orretain, keyfunding commitments.
The Design Authority is supported by a team of functional specialists and an Architecture Review Board.
All risks to projects are considered through regular review forums.
Divisional teams submit business cases for each project and lead and deliver their own GAP projects, with support from Divisional Project Management.
CYBER Major information security breach Data security at Informa is governed by a dedicated Enterprise SECURITY or cyber-attack resulting in loss Information Security Office and supported by an Information or theft of data, content or Protection Steering Committee and an Information Protection intellectual property.
IMPACT There is an enterprise-wide data security programme and In the event of such a breach, Informa defined incident management processes, including those for could suffer reputational damage, fines, employees to report security breaches.
System controls include business interruption and litigation.
secure infrastructure, content level protection, access management and monitoring.
Awareness of the Groups information protection policies andprocedures is maintained through training and periodic communications that highlight the importance of the appropriate stewardship of information.
In 2015, the management of data security and risk at a Divisional level was reviewed and strengthened through the appointment of Chief Technology Officers to each Division.
22 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Risk Description Mitigating activities ACQUISITIONS Sub-optimal acquisitions.
Informa takes a disciplined approach to identifying and testingacquisitions.
IMPACT The failure to successfully identify and Targets are analysed according to formal investment decision integrate key acquisitions could lead criteria to identify suitable, earnings enhancing acquisitions.
tolossof profits, inefficient business They are tested by the Group Strategy and Business Planning processes, inconsistent corporate Team for strategic fit.
The due diligence process is led by the cultureand weakened Brand.
Poor Director of Mergers & Acquisitions and supported by relevant qualityacquisitions weaken Informas Divisional Leadership Teams and Global Support functions Brandand reputation and provide poor including Finance and Legal.
The Groups focus for 2016 is to improve the integration of acquisitions.
A Group-wide acquisition integration tool is in development and anticipated to launch in the first half of the year.
RELIANCE The overreliance on or loss of The Group monitors changes in the market and gathers regular ON KEY key counterparties.
customer feedback to ensure its products are well placed.
It COUNTERPARTIES invests in a variety of distribution channels for products, which IMPACT may include multiple venues per location or product type.
This may impact the Groups ability to enter into or remain in certain markets The Group also engages regularly with key suppliers to and have a disruptive effect on trading understand their strategies and ensure a fit with the Groups and revenues.
Deep dive reviews are conducted to examine and understand the risks and opportunities key counterparties present.
ECONOMIC The arrival, or impending arrival, The Groups business planning cycle allows for a degree of INSTABILITY ofaneconomic downturn or period forward planning in the event of a period of economic instability.
ofuncertainty affecting customer While it is not possible to mitigate the impact of such a period appetite for discretionary expenditure.
entirely, particularly if a downturn were prolonged, the Group could identify areas of significant impact and take corrective IMPACT actions.
These may include reducing the capacity of certain A period of economic instability could lead events to align with prevailing market conditions.
to a reduction in discretionary spending behaviours, which would have a direct Emerging uncertainty in the economic environment will be impact on the profitability of one, or more, closely monitored in 2016.
At a portfolio level, Informas of the Groups products and services.
products and services are diversified across markets and geographies, which reduces the Group-wide impact of a Fluctuations in exchange rates could have downturn in any single sector or region.
an adverse effect on the strength of our Balance Sheet and our reported earnings.
Financial planning and modelling activities are overseen by the Group Finance Director, who works closely with each Division to consider the trends likely to impact business activities.
Governance oversight is provided by the Treasury Committee.
The Groups financial control environment includes a credit control function that ensures advance payment is received for many events and subscriptions, as well as the close monitoring of trade receivables and exchange rate risk by Group Treasury.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk Description Mitigating activities TECHNOLOGY A major IT infrastructure failure The Group is strengthening its technology capabilities FAILURE or prolonged loss of critical IT atamanagement, infrastructure and process level.
systems, internet, networks and similar services.
In 2015, it appointed Chief Technology Officers and information security professionals to each Division, led by the Group Chief IMPACT Information Officer, and instituted a Technology Leadership Disruption of Informas ability to deliver Forum that oversees all technology-related matters and products and services.
A prolonged ensuresthe Groups technology strategy is implemented.
interruption could lead to an inability tohostcertain key events or transact Informa has established a technology governance framework, business, leading to a reduction in Technology Minimum Expected Practices, which sets minimum revenuesand reputational damage.
standards for technology-related controls across the Group.
Internal Audit and the Group Technology Compliance Director monitor compliance with these practices and provide audit andreporting mechanisms.
Proactive measures to prevent disruption include moving to cloud-based solutions, monitoring, software patching and security testing.
There is continuous investment in internet and electronic delivery platforms, networks and distribution systems.
SAFETY A significant accident or incident at The Group has a health and safety framework, supported by MANAGEMENT anExhibition, event or Informa office.
relevant policies and procedures, which is overseen by the Group Risk Committee.
There is a nominated Board Director IMPACT responsible for health and safety matters.
The impact of a safety-related incident could have numerous consequences for Informas event-based businesses have dedicated Health and the Group and could lead to significant Safety resources responsible for overseeing and executing the reputational damage, enforcement Groups framework locally.
There is a process designed to actionand multiple claims for damages.
oversee the Groups office environments led by the Global Support Division.
Accidents, incidents and near misses are reported to the Group Risk Committee.
The Group maintains insurance coverage in respect of Health and Safety matters.
The increase in unpredictable terrorist attacks is an emerging risk, and part of the Groups focus in 2016 will be on security, protection and business continuity.
CRISIS A significant event requiring careful It is impossible to have a plan in place for all potential situations.
MANAGEMENT andsensitive management to protect The ultimate mitigation is dependent on managements the Group or other key stakeholders.
judgement, effective teamwork, speed of reaction and quality of communication in a crisis situation.
IMPACT The inability to respond appropriately The Group has in place a crisis communications manual, andina timely manner could exacerbate which lays out the communications processes and procedures analready sensitive incident, leading to to follow in the event of a crisis.
Its aim is to improve the quality significant business disruption, diversion of of the Groups communications response to risk events, and to management time and reputational damage.
help avoid common mistakes and oversights.
24 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE RISKS Risk Description Mitigating activities REGULATORY The Group may be adversely affected The Group has internal Legal and Compliance Departments COMPLIANCE by enforcement of and changes in that provide advice and help define and implement legislation and regulation affecting Group policies.
itsbusiness and that of its customers and suppliers.
Compliance with some Sector and subject matter expertise exists within the Groups legislation may be embedded into key Divisions.
Informa also engages with industry trade associations financial undertakings to which the and governments to keep abreast of changes to legislation.
Group has been or may be subject.
Policies and procedures have been established which includesystems to improve the detection of any possible IMPACT non-compliance.
Failure to comply with relevant regulations could lead to criminal and civil prosecution, Training is provided to staff on an ongoing basis, and including censure, reputational damage completion rates are tracked through routine reporting activity.
andpotential inability to trade in certain jurisdictions.
An actual regulatory breach could lead to a default under relevant financial undertakings.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
