48 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 RISK MANAGEMENT RISK FRAMEWORK both before and after mitigation.
This helps the Business Plan and risk management processes Effective risk management is fundamental to our business understand both what risks it is continuing particularly, the Board will determine the level of ability to meet both our short-term and longerto carry but also where the key mitigating controls risk carried and the extent of mitigating activity term strategic objectives.
The Groups approach are within the business.
These risk registers are required to deliver an acceptable level of net risk.
to risk is brought together in an overarching risk consolidated in a robust and systematic way to management policy.
As well as setting out how identify the Groups principal risks.
The key Group The Board defines the risk governance framework risk is managed the policy sets out the Groups risks are further discussed and reviewed by the and sets the overall risk strategy and the Audit tolerance for risk and how this is measured across Executive Management Team, who are also Committee reviews the risk management identified macro and business risks.
We identify and responsible for reviewing their own risk areas.
Each framework and the effectiveness of internal monitor financial and non-financial risks facing the quarter, the resulting risk summary is distributed to controls particularly with regard to financial business.
The Board believes that the behaviour of and discussed by the Audit Committee and the controls.
This includes reviewing the internal audit individuals across the business in key to underBoard, who has overall responsibility for the risk programme and related reports to ensure that pinning an effective risk management culture.
all key mitigating controls are being regularly Across the Group an investment has been made assessed and where issues are identified that they in the articulation and communication of the During 2015 the risk management process has are being addressed on a timely basis.
Assurance Inmarsat values in helping promote the right set been reviewed and a number of updates made.
on broader risk controls is provided by a of values to support effective risk management.
The Board as part of the year-end process has combination of internal management information, considered top down risks particularly those that internal audits, external audits and Board As required by the policy, management operates a lie outside the normal operations of the business oversight.
There is also an externally supported risk management process to identify, evaluate and so may be overlooked by the bottom up risk whistleblowing facility.
report significant risks within the business and to assessment process.
Secondly risks are now report to the Board on how those risks are being formally considered on both a gross and a net basis The management of risk is embedded in our managed.
Risks are initially identified and reviewed after mitigation.
Finally, an increased emphasis is everyday business activities and culture, with all in each business area, then on a quarterly basis being placed on how risks, once identified, are our employees having an important role to play.
risk registers are formally reviewed by senior managed through effective mitigation.
The diligence applied by staff to consider risk is management on a central Risk Committee reflected in business cases which are submitted represented by each component part of the The Board regularly considers the risks faced by for approval across the company, and ongoing business.
As part of this review, risks are scored in the business, and the actions being taken to projects have risks reported on a regular basis.
terms of probability of occurrence and value at risk, mitigate those risks.
As part of the Long Range RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS INMARSAT PLC BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE BUSINESS OPERATIONS Defines the risk governance Reviews the risk management Review the risk management framework, risk culture and principles framework and the effectiveness of framework and the effectiveness of Sets overall risk strategy and policy internal controls, risk management internal controls, risk management Approves risk levels systems and major risk initiatives systems and major risk initiatives Responsible for an effective system Reviews the internal audit across the Group of internal controls programme and reports Approves risk decisions that are beyond delegated authorities RISK COMMITTEE Reviews the risk profile against risk appetite and makes recommendations to management in relation to risk profile, strategy and key controls Reviews the suitability of risk methodologies, metrics and policies Assesses major risk-related projects BUSINESS OPERATIONS Implement mitigation strategies STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 PRINCIPAL RISKS uncertainties influencing our performance are In identifying the principal risks set out below we The Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance have disclosed those risks that we currently consider that may adversely affect our business, operations, of businesses generally, others are particular to our to be the most significant to the Group at the date of liquidity, financial position or future performance, not operations in mobile satellite services.
These principal risks are also all of which are wholly within our control or known to linked to our strategic objectives page 20. us.
Some such risks may currently be regarded as In accordance with the provisions of the UK immaterial and could turn out to be material.
We Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Board has At the end of 2015, we reviewed our key risks and accept risk is an inherent part of doing business: and taken into consideration the principal risks in the this has led to a more streamlined set of principal we manage the risks based on a balance of risk and context of determining whether to adopt the going risks from the prior year: this has led to a number reward determined through careful assessment of concern basis of accounting and when assessing of risks being characterised as secondary risks.
both the potential likelihood and impact as well as risk the prospects of the Company for the purpose of These include legal, regulatory and compliance: appetite.
We consider reputational as well as financial preparing the viability statement which can be the relationship with LightSquared: taxation and impact, recognising the value attributable to our found on page 51.
The going concern statement in capital funding: the effectiveness of core business brand.
The Group faces a number of ongoing provided on page 55 in the Report of the Directors.
systems and processes: and the retention and operational risks including litigation, credit and motivation of management and employees.
foreign exchange risk and the risks associated with Our principal risks and uncertainties are discussed dealing with tax authorities in multiple jurisdictions.
In on the next few pages and are as summarised in The gross risk movement from prior year for each addition the Group is exposed to a broader set of less the Preliminary Results Statement distributed on principal risk and uncertainty has been assessed as well defined risks including reputational risk of those 3 March 2016.
These have been subject to robust either no change: an increased gross risk exposure risks relating to the global economy.
The importance assessment and review.
This summary, however, is or a reduced gross risk exposure.
of these risks will vary over time and will be kept under not intended to be an exhaustive analysis of all risks constant review.
Although many of the risks and and uncertainties affecting our business and are The key principal risks identified are shown below: not listed in any order of priority.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES We show against each risk how it links to our strategy see page 20 and the movement of each risk during the year.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES MOVEMENT DURING YEAR 1 L-BAND GROWTH INCREASED RISK IN 2015 2 GROWTH AND DIVERSITY VIA GX NO CHANGE IN 2015 3 GROWTH AND DIVERSITY VIA S-BAND DECREASED RISK IN 2015 4 CREATION OF A SOLUTIONS ECOSYSTEM 1 2 3 4 SATELLITES AND OUR NETWORK LINK TO STRATEGY: MOVEMENT: RISK BACKGROUND AND IMPACT MITIGATION Our satellites and network fail to operate We face risks when we launch our satellites and We have our resident quality assurance teams to effectively which affects revenues and while they are in operation.
There are only a few oversee the manufacture and assembly of our our reputation companies who provide service to build and satellites and launch vehicles.
Our control centre launch our satellites and if they encounter has highly trained professionals with significant problems our launch may be delayed or fail.
experience in operating satellites who constantly Our network may also not be able to cope with monitor satellite performance and ensure any the demand from users.
necessary action is taken promptly.
We have launch and in-orbit insurance in place.
Our network is designed to accommodate surges in traffic demand by flexibly deploying capacity to those places in need.
50 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED NEXT GENERATION SERVICES LINK TO STRATEGY: 1 2 3 4 MOVEMENT: RISK BACKGROUND AND IMPACT MITIGATION Our product and service innovation fail to meet We may fail to critically assess our market, We have professional, experienced teams who market and customer expectations technological changes, customer requirements focus on large-scale programmes and develop and competitors strategy and to exploit market close relationships with third parties we use to opportunities.
We may develop next generation deliver them.
We critically review our detailed services that will not meet these market business cases before we proceed and regularly opportunities, or these developments could have assess our progress against the original business delays or cost overruns impacting on our market cases.
We thoroughly review and approve major position, revenue or returns on investment.
development of new services or technology.
We work closely with our partners to ensure our services and technology meet the demand of our customers, to identify new customers and to migrate existing customers who would benefit from our new services.
Our significant programmes currently underway are: GX programme for high throughput mobile broadband service using Inmarsat-5 satellite Ka-band capacity, S-band satellite programme for aviation passenger connectivity and Inmarsat-6 satellite programme to expand our L-band Ka-band capacity to provide new and more advanced services.
1 2 3 SPECTRUM LINK TO STRATEGY: MOVEMENT: RISK BACKGROUND AND IMPACT MITIGATION Our ability to use spectrum changes and We rely on radio spectrum, which has historically We regularly improve the efficiency of our affects our ability to provide our service and been allocated without charge, to provide our spectrum usage through innovation and system generate revenues services.
We must agree how it is used in enhancement.
We also educate and inform coordination with other satellite operators.
We regulators and governments as to the unique may not be able to coordinate usage in the future socio-economic contribution of our mobile and or may be charged for the spectrum which satellite services.
could affect our ability to provide services.
CYBER SECURITY LINK TO STRATEGY: 1 2 3 4 MOVEMENT: RISK BACKGROUND AND IMPACT MITIGATION Our cyber security systems do not protect our Our satellites, networks, systems and processes We have implemented industry-standard security business operations robustly may be vulnerable to security risks from measures, and have increased our investment in unauthorised access, computer viruses, denial state-of-the-art cyber countermeasures and of services and other security attacks.
Our enhanced cyber security operations to improve customers may not use our services if we could not detection and response to incidences.
demonstrate that our services are reliable and meet certain cyber security requirements.
1 2 3 4 CRITICAL CUSTOMERS LINK TO STRATEGY: MOVEMENT: RISK BACKGROUND AND IMPACT MITIGATION If our distributors fail to effectively distribute our We rely on our distribution channel for part of We build strong relationships with all our partners services this can affect revenue generation our revenue and they might not sell our services and provide them with excellent services to sell effectively or competitively.
We provide our in their markets.
We encourage sharing of services to many government organisations information and developing ideas through direct around the world which may have conflicting meetings with our partners and through our requirements, and our revenue may be affected by regional and global conferences.
governments reduction in spending and their other political priorities.
We continue to improve the reliability of our satellites and services which are critical to our users.
We have introduced new services including GX services, which are well suited to our customers.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 51 CRITICAL SUPPLIERS LINK TO STRATEGY: 1 2 3 4 MOVEMENT: RISK BACKGROUND AND IMPACT MITIGATION If key suppliers fail to meet our requirements, We rely on a limited number of third-party We work closely with our suppliers to review we may not deliver best value for our business suppliers and partners in the production of our programme plans, delivery quality and timing to satellites, systems, terminals and products and we ensure that they meet our requirements.
may have limited control over availability, quality and delivery.
VIABILITY STATEMENT ASSESSMENT PROCESS CONCLUSION In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK The Long Range Business Plan the Plan, which is Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Directors updated annually, formed the basis for the viability that they have a reasonable expectation that the have assessed the viability of the Group over a assessment.
The Plan, as a matter of routine, takes Company will be able to continue in operation and three-year period, taking into account the Groups account of business as usual risks including slower meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to current position and the potential impact of the revenue growth, increased operating costs, higher 31 December 2018. principal risks documented on pages 49 to 51 of working capital requirements and adverse the Annual Report.
In completing the The Group is exposed to particularly high levels viability assessment, the Plan was tested against of risk when a satellite is launched though this is ASSESSMENT PERIOD a number of severe but plausible principal risk routinely mitigated through launch insurance, The Directors have determined that a three-year scenarios.
Each scenario was tested and the for which there is a well-developed market.
Once period to 31 December 2018 is an appropriate financial impact estimated based upon a satellites have been successfully placed into orbit, period over which to provide its viability statement.
combination of internal estimates and data the experience of the last 35 years is that failures This is the key period of focus within the Groups available from reliable external sources.
Mitigation are rare, which is due in part to the high levels strategic planning process and it reflects the period strategies were identified and costed in conjunction of redundancy that are routinely built into the over which the Group has reasonable visibility with internal experts to calculate the net likely satellites and ground network.
Looking beyond the of both customer contracts and product financial impact of each scenario.
When risks associated with the satellites and our network development programmes.
It is also consistent determining the scenarios each of the principal the geographical and sector diversification of the with the period over which the business provides risks was considered with satellites and network, Groups operations help minimise the risk of a loss guidance to the market on future revenue and cyber, critical partners and political risks identified that might endanger the viability of the Group.
for more extensive stress testing.
The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed the process undertaken by management.
