STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks and uncertainties This section sets out a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on the Groups strategy, performance, results, financial condition and reputation.
RISK FRAMEWORK LONG-TERM VIABILITY STATEMENT The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate oversight of the Groups risk management framework which Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability is described in the Directors Report on pages 52 to 62 and of the Group over a five-year period to 31 December 2020, 78 to 82. by carrying out a robust assessment of the Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks and The Head of Internal Audit and the Group General Counsel, uncertainties, including those that would threaten the Groups who report to the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Officer respectively, have accountability for reporting the key risks that the Group faces, the controls and assurance processes The Directors have determined that a five-year period is in place and any mitigating actions or controls.
Both roles an appropriate period over which to provide the viability report to the Audit & Risk Committee, attend its meetings and statement of the Group, as the Groups strategic review meet with individual members each year as required.
Risks are formally identified and recorded in a risk register for In addition to the bottom-up strategic review process where the significant countries and for each business line and support the prospects of each business line are reviewed, a robust function.
The risk register is updated at least twice each year assessment has been made of the potential operational and and is used to plan the Groups internal audit and risk strategy.
financial impacts on the Group of combinations of principal In addition to the risk register, all senior executives and their risks and uncertainties as set out in the following pages direct reports are required to complete an annual return to in a number of severe, but plausible, scenarios, as well confirm that management controls have been effectively as the effectiveness of any mitigating actions.
The return covers Sales, Operations, The Group has a broad customer base across its multiple IT, Finance and People.
business lines and in its different geographic regions, and is The Risk Control and Assurance Committee RCA, comprising supported by a robust Balance Sheet and strong operational senior Intertek executives, complements the work of the Audit cash flows.
The Board considers that the diverse nature of & Risk Committee.
The RCA oversees the development of business lines and geographies in which the Group operates the internal control framework, reviews the risk matrices and significantly mitigates the impact that any of these scenarios risk management procedures, monitors issues and provides might have on the Groups viability.
The RCA makes recommendations Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they to the Intertek Executive Management Team and develops have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able the Groups integrated responses to changes in the to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall regulatory environment.
due over the period to 31 December 2020.
PRINCIPAL RISKS The Group is affected by a number of risk factors, some of which, including macroeconomic and industry specific cyclical risks, are outside the Groups control.
Some risks are particular to Interteks operations.
The principal risks of which the Group is aware are detailed on the following pages including a commentary on how the Group mitigates these risks.
These risks and uncertainties do not appear in any particular order of potential materiality or probability of occurrence.
There may be other risks that are currently unknown or regarded as immaterial which could turn out to be material.
Any of these risks could have the potential to impact the performance of the Group, its assets, liquidity, capital resources and its reputation.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 39 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE REPUTATION Reputation is key to the Group Failure to meet financial performance Quality Management Systems: adherence to these is regularly audited and reviewed This risk remains stable compared maintaining and growing its business.
by external parties, including accreditation bodies.
Ethical breaches and poor quality Exposure to material legal claims, Risk Management Framework and associated controls and assurance processes, The Group continues to robustly service, either within Interteks own associated costs and wasted including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate.
defend claims where they are operations, its supply chain, or by its management time.
Code of Ethics which is communicated to all staff, who undergo regular training.
without merit, as well as investing sub-contractors, could damage its Share price may fall.
Whistle-blowing programme, monitored by the Audit & Risk Committee, where in staff development, quality reputation.
A failure to manage any Loss of existing or new business.
staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or other activity likely systems and standard processes subsequent crisis through a lack of Loss of key staff.
to adversely affect the reputation of the Group.
reactive procedures could also Zero-tolerance policy with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any individual exacerbate the potential damage.
employed by the Group, or acting on the Groups behalf.
Media comments with regard to Group activities are centrally reviewed so that senior management can, where necessary, take appropriate action on a timely basis.
Relationship management and communication with external stakeholders.
ACCREDITATION The Group relies on being awarded Inability to deliver certain services.
Quality assurance procedures and controls embedded in the operations to ensure This risk remains stable compared and retaining appropriate Inability to operate in certain that the Group holds and maintains the necessary accreditations and that the to 2014. accreditations and affiliations around territories.
required operational standards are applied.
The Group regularly refines its the world in order to provide its Loss of business in the relevant Accreditor relationship management Operations are regularly subjected to audit quality assurance procedures.
industry country causing damage and review by external parties including accreditation bodies, governments, trade While illegal use of Intertek marks to the Groups reputation.
affiliations, retailers, manufacturers and clients.
is a growing problem, the Group Illegal use of Intertek marks by others Accreditation is usually held at an industry, country or site level and loss of continues to work with Regulatory abuses the accreditation process and accreditation will not mean loss of accreditation across the Group.
and Government bodies to identify risks negative perceptions of Intertek.
and take swift action where false marks are identified.
PEOPLE RETENTION The Group operates in specialised Poor management succession.
HR strategy policies and systems.
This risk remains stable compared sectors and needs to attract and Lack of continuity.
Development and reward programme to retain and motivate employees.
to 2014. retain employees with relevant Failure to optimise growth.
Succession planning to ensure effective continuation of leadership and expertise.
71 senior managers have been experience and knowledge in order Impact on quality, reputation Employee surveys.
through the Intertek Executive to take advantage of all growth and customer confidence.
Intertek Executive Academy to develop the next generation of global leadership.
Loss of talent to competitors and lost market share.
OPERATIONAL HEALTH AND Any health and safety incident arising Individual or multiple injuries Quality management and associated controls, including safety training, appropriate This risk remains stable compared SAFETY from our activities.
This could result in to employees and others.
PPE Personal Protective Equipment, Health & Safety policies, meetings and to 2014. injury to Interteks employees, subLitigation or legal regulatory communication.
There were zero work-related contractors, customers and or any enforcement action including Avoiding fatalities, accidents and hazardous situations is paramount.
It is expected fatalities in the year, compared other stakeholders affected.
prosecution leading to that Intertek employees will operate to the highest standards of health and safety to one in 2014. reputational damage.
at all times and there are controls in place to reduce incidents.
40 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Operational PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE REPUTATION Reputation is key to the Group Failure to meet financial performance Quality Management Systems: adherence to these is regularly audited and reviewed This risk remains stable compared maintaining and growing its business.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 41 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE BUSINESS CONTINUITY Continuity: a major incident impacting Potential injury to our people, loss Business Continuity Plans BCPs and Disaster Recovery Plans DRPs in place.
This risk remains stable compared AND CORPORATE SOCIAL business continuity in terms of of premises permanently or property Health & Safety policies, Environmental policy and Sample Storage to 2014.
RESPONSIBILITY CSR damage to premises and IT systems damage for an extended period.
No BCPs or DRPs have had to be potential causes being natural Increased environmental impact, Regular review of leases and pipeline.
put in place in 2015, and therefore disasters, significant accidents and increased costs, lack of compliance there has been no downtime in incidents, major staff illness, etc.. with law, regulation or the operational activity, except for requirements of certification bodies where tests of BCPs or DRPs Environment: an adverse impact on and or customers.
the environment due to inadequate Damage to reputation and impact on sample storage disposal, and or customer confidence and share price.
inappropriate use of materials dangerous to the environment.
Leases: Failure to secure the renewal of a critical lease, or having to agree unfavourable renewal terms.
INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVE A failure to identify, manage and Failure to maximise revenue Ongoing development of Global Key Accounts GKA management.
This risk remains stable compared LANDSCAPE take advantage of emerging and opportunities.
Examples include the Failure to take advantage of Focus on new services and acquisitions.
The Groups results have been opportunities provided by new new opportunities.
Tracking new laws and regulations.
impacted by the lower levels of markets and customers, a failure to Lack of ability to respond flexibly.
Regular strategic and business line reviews.
capital expenditure in the energy innovate in terms of service offering Erosion of market share.
sector, driven by lower oil prices, and delivery, the challenge of radically Impact on share price.
but more than offset by the diverse new and different business models, Sanctions and fines for nonnature of the Group and its ability and the failure to foresee the impact compliance with new laws, etc.
to grow revenue and manage the of, or adequately respond to and cost base.
comply with, changing or new laws and regulations.
MACRO-ECONOMIC RISK Macro-economic factors such as A sustained downturn in the The Group has a diversified service offering to a wide range of industries and This represents an increasing risk a global market downturn and economic cycle can result in a geographies.
This reduces the risk of a downturn in any one sector or region having compared to 2014. contraction changing requirements lower return on invested capital, a material impact on the long-term viability of the Group.
Where a downturn does Commodity prices and particularly in certain sectors.
Further influenced as revenue and margin levels occur, the Group seeks to reduce, where possible, the cost base whilst retaining its oil have reduced in the year.
by related risks such as potential come under pressure.
core capability to take advantage of the cyclical upturn when it comes.
Group revenue and margin have acquisition failure or the effect on Falling market share.
improved despite GDP growth liquidity of the inability to renew bank Shrinking customer base.
in China and some emerging funding or secure additional funding.
markets starting to slow from previous high levels.
These impacts have been materially mitigated by strong cost control and restructuring activities.
CYBER AND DATA SECURITY, Major IT systems integrity issue, Loss of revenue due to down time.
Information systems policy and governance structure.
This risk represents an increasing IT SYSTEMS INTEGRITY or data security breach, either due Potential loss of sensitive data with Regular system maintenance.
risk compared to 2014. to internal or external factors such associated legal implications.
Review of data security performed as deliberate interference or power Potential costs of IT systems Disaster recovery plans that are constantly tested and improved to minimise including data storage, retention shortages cuts etc.
the impact if a failure does occur.
policy, access controls and Loss of customer confidence.
Global Information Security policies in place.
Internal and external audit testing.
42 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Operational PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE BUSINESS CONTINUITY Continuity: a major incident impacting Potential injury to our people, loss Business Continuity Plans BCPs and Disaster Recovery Plans DRPs in place.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 43 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Legal and Regulatory PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE LITIGATION Claims resulting from mistakes in Financial impact fines by regulators, Effective Quality Management Systems and assurance procedures and controls, This risk remains stable compared Interteks work resulting in disputes suspension of accreditation, including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate.
to 2014. with clients and or other relevant third compensation.
Claims management policy and process in place.
Closely linked to the risk of Financial impact from defending All significant incidents that could potentially result in a claim against the Group have been employed in the year to engaging in contracts with nonand settling claims.
are immediately reported to compliance officers and logged in an incident database increase the bandwidth available to standard, unfavourable or onerous Impact of fines.
so that they can be properly managed.
The Group General Counsel reports any manage contract reviews and assist terms, e. g. high or non-existent Potential impact on insurance significant claims to the Audit & Risk Committee.
External legal counsel is appointed the wider legal framework.
liability caps: liability for consequential premiums.
Ongoing training and education in losses or third party losses: poorlyLoss of customer confidence.
Insurance liaison seeking contractual protection from loss or insurance cover respect of contractual liabilities defined scope of work etc.
Impact for loss where possible.
Review of approval limits for Reduction in profitability if contract liability caps.
scope creeps or costs escalate and prices remain fixed.
Potential for disproportionate or unquantifiable liabilities if something goes wrong and caps are absent or inadequate.
BUSINESS ETHICS Non-compliance with Interteks Code Litigation, including significant fines Annual Code of Ethics training and sign-off requirement.
This risk remains stable compared of Ethics Code and or related laws and debarment from certain Whistle-blowing programme, monitored by the Audit & Risk Committee, where to 2014. such as anti-bribery, anti-money territories activities.
staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or other activity likely to Ongoing annual confirmations laundering, and fair competition Reputational damage.
adversely affect the reputation of the Group.
ensure that staff verify compliance legislation.
Non-compliance could be Loss of accreditation.
Zero-tolerance policy with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any individual with the Code of Ethics.
either accidental or deliberate, and Erosion of customer confidence.
Internal Audit samples that committed either by our people or Impact on share price.
The Group employs local people in each country who are aware of local legal and contractors have signed the sub-contractors.
There are also extensive internal compliance and audit Groups Code.
Expert advice is taken in areas where regulations During 2015, 249 2014: 256 HR are uncertain.
and non-compliance issues were The Group continues to dedicate resources to ensure compliance with the UK reported through the Bribery Act and all other anti-bribery legislation, and internal policy.
whistleblowing hotline and other routes.
All were investigated with 51 2014: 31 substantiated and corrective action taken.
Financial FINANCIAL RISK Risk of theft, fraud or financial Financial losses with a direct impact The Group has financial, management and systems controls in place to ensure This risk remains stable compared misstatement by employees.
that the Groups assets are protected from major financial risks.
to 2014. risks such as impact of FX movements Large scale losses can affect financial Treasury policy, management system and framework in place.
Internal audit carried out 64 on operating margins on cross results.
Monthly monitoring of FX variances and remedial actions.
reviews in 2015 81 in 2014. currency contracts.
Potential legal proceedings leading A detailed system of financial reporting is in place to ensure that monthly financial Doing Business the Right Way to costs and management time.
The Group also operates a rigorous programme established as core principle Corresponding loss of value and of internal audits and management reviews.
Independent external auditors review within Intertek.
reputation could result in funding the Groups half year results and audit the Groups annual financial statements.
Review and roll out of 53 core being withdrawn or provided at mandatory controls for year-end higher interest rates.
44 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Legal and Regulatory PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE LITIGATION Claims resulting from mistakes in Financial impact fines by regulators, Effective Quality Management Systems and assurance procedures and controls, This risk remains stable compared Interteks work resulting in disputes suspension of accreditation, including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 45
