Potential Operational Risks Strategic Report Performance and Financials Risks and Uncertainties ITV has a formal risk management process which isembedded within the business to support the identification and effective management of risks across the business.
It is regularly reviewed and adapted as the Company, industry and macro environment evolves.
Risk management framework Our approach, which is consistent with previous years, covers risks at all levels oftheorganisation and considers risks inthreecore groups: High Impact, Low Likelihood HILL risks High Impact, Low of low inherent likelihood but where there Likelihood HILL risks wouldbe major consequences were the risk tomaterialise Strategic risks Strategic risks would impact the successfulexecution of the strategy Process level risks embedded into Process level risks everydayactivity within the organisation.
The Board is responsible for establishing In 2015 the Board has continued Risk identification and assessment: risk appetite, a robust and appropriate toenhance and develop ITVs risk identifying the risks facing the risk management framework and for management framework, in particular businessand for establishing controls monitoring the risk management reviewing the level of risk appetite in the and procedures to monitor and andinternal control systems.
Further, the Board has carried mitigate risks.
thecourse of the year the Board, out a robust assessment of the principal Management Board and Divisional risks facing ITV, including those that Control environment: financial Boards, routinely review ITVs principal would threaten its business model, controls, policies and procedures are risks and discuss the mitigations and future performance, solvency or liquidity.
considered as a part of the Groups actions being taken with regards to Discussion of the principal risks affecting ongoing risk assessment process.
The Audit Committee ITV and mitigating factors can be found These controls are reviewed to ensure supports the Board to keep the overall on pages 48 to 51. risks are identified and the processes effectiveness of these processes under and procedures are in accordance regular review.
The Management Board has withand aligned to the strategy.
The responsibility for the development Internal Audit team provides objective andoperation of the risk management assurance as to the effectiveness of framework and for the operation the Groups systems of internal control ofITVssystems of internal control.
and risk management, reporting to Thisincludes: both the Management Board and theAudit Committee.
46 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal Risks Strategic Report Risks and Uncertainties Reviewing and monitoring the During 2015 all the HILL and Strategic Internal audit plan effectiveness of internal controls: risks were reassessed, challenged and The internal auditplan is driven from controls are monitored by senior further refined to improve our risk ITVs risk management framework.
management, Internal Audit and the management.
Mitigating actions have Internal Audit reviews the auditable Audit Committee.
Remedial plans been identified for all the HILL and elements of the HILL, Strategic and areput in place where controls are Strategic risks.
Each Strategic risk has Process level risks and this informs weak or there are opportunities been mapped to at least one of the theareas and topics that Internal Audit forimprovement.
Serious control threekey strategic priorities and, where focus on.
weakness if any are reported to the possible, assigned key risk indicators.
Board and action taken as appropriate.
Where appropriate, the key risk indicators Risk culture are aligned to our key performance Throughout the year we have continued Risk management process indicators KPIs on pages 32 to 35 or to focus on and strengthen our risk Risks are primarily controlled through asubset of these KPIs.
Our Code of Conduct remains therisk management process.
In Strategic risks are owned by at least one unchanged and the Operational Risk addition to the risk specific mitigating member of the Management Board.
Steering Group considers ethical actions outlined on pages 48 to 51 risks behaviours, governance and compliance are considered through day-to-day We have in place an Operational Risk with our Code.
ITV also offers all operations and are regularly discussed Steering Group to manage and consider employees annual online training by the Board and Management Board, existing and emerging operational onethics and compliance.
bythe Audit Committee and as part risksand ensure they are addressed ofthe Boards strategy day.
Viability Statement In its assessment of viability the Board is of the view that a three year horizon to 31 December 2018 is appropriate, giventhe visibility ITV has over its Broadcast advertising business and the normal commissioning cycle which drives the Studios division.
When considering the longer-term viability of ITV, the Board has reviewed each of ITVs principal risks and uncertainties and, taking into account current operational and financial performance, has in particular analysed the impact of: The Broadcast division experiencing a significant and sharp downturn, similar to the 2008 09 financial crisis, with regards to advertising revenues, but in this case with no immediate recovery A number of key programme brands within the Studios division not being recommissioned A significant change in ITVs pension funding obligations, following the triennial valuation in 2017 and subsequent funding arrangements The review involved flexing the underlying strategic forecast for the above impacts, both individually and concurrently, and no specific mitigations were assumed.
The underlying strategic forecast assumed: business as usual capital spending: the ongoing availability of the financing facilities as ITV remains within the covenants : and that ITV maintains its stated dividend policy.
Based on the results of this review, the Board has a reasonable expectation that ITV will be able to continue in operation and meet itsliabilities as they fall due over the three year period ending 31December 2018.
The assessment has been made with reference toITVs strategy and current position and prospects.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47 Strategic Report Performance and Financials Risks and Uncertainties continued High Impact, Low Likelihood Risks HILL Potential Risk Mitigating Factors Financial ITV loses its credit status or The business is cash generative and working capital management lines of funding with existing remains a key focus.
lenders or there is a collapse ITV has a balance sheet policy to maintain adjusted net debt ofa major bank impacting below1.5x adjusted EBITDA and have unused liquidity headroom financial arrangements of250 million.
ITV has a 525 million Revolving Credit Facility with a number of core relationship banks and 250 million of financial covenant free facilities.
The low gross debt levels that ITV currently has should enable the Company to obtain debt from the marketplace if needed.
We are rated investment grade by two ratings agencies.
There is a major collapse in There is regular communication between ITV and the pension trustees.
investment values leading to a The pension schemes assets are invested in a diversified portfolio, material impact on the pension with a significant amount of the fund held in bonds.
ITV has worked with the pension trustees to limit the potential deficit by a series of asset backed arrangements.
Further, it has taken mortality risk out of the scheme with a longevity swap and hedged a portion of inflation and interest rate variability.
Operational A significant event removes a There is a business resilience plan in place which includes succession number of the key management plans or nominated replacements for all key positions within team from the business on a theCompany.
Reputation An event with public interest ITV has a crisis management policy in place and is increasing that causes significant emphasis on its development and application.
There is a major health and ITV has a central Health & Safety team, Operational Risk Steering safety incident that results in Group and Health & Safety policies and procedures are in place, asignificant loss of human life.
with appropriate training for employees where required.
As we continue to expand internationally these will be reviewed.
Regular inspections are undertaken at all sites, which are run alongside a programme of Health & Safety audits.
This is subject to ongoing review.
A major incident results in ITV A risk register of broadcast operations, including key outsourced being unable to continue with functions, is in place and reviewed on a regular basis.
scheduled broadcasting for a Major incident scenario testing takes place bi-annually.
An incident management process has been agreed and full disaster recovery plans are in place.
There is a significant or ITV regularly communicates with appropriate groups and its unexpected change in legalpanel and Ofcom to monitor potential policy, legal and regulation or legislation.
48 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Risks and Uncertainties Strategic priorities Maximising Growing Building Strategic risks Potential Risk Mitigating Factors The Market There is a major decline in Growing non-NAR in areas such as ITV Studios and Online, advertising revenues and ITV Pay& Interactive, remains a key part of the strategy.
doesnot build sufficient non-NAR ITV continues to focus on cash and costs, ensuring the revenue streams to offset the Company has an adequate financial liquidity and balance sheet financial impact of this decline.
flexibility to continue to invest.
The television market moves ITV continues to support free platforms, including YouView, significantly towards pay tokeep free-to-air strong.
television as a preferred model, ITV looks at and evaluates the opportunities for expanding negatively impacting ITVs itsexisting pay services and other pay offerings.
ITV explores other platforms to understand viewing habits and what people are prepared to pay for.
A faster than expected shift to The business continues to develop the ITV Hub VOD services, Video on Demand or other new maximise the distribution of the ITV Hub and grow its VOD technologies, such as internet advertising business.
enabled TVs or online only ITV monitors the market for new technology and where services, causes a sustained appropriate explores how ITV can participate.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 Strategic Report Performance and Financials Risks and Uncertainties continued Strategic risks Potential Risk Mitigating Factors Organisation, ITV fails to evolve its organisational ITV constantly reassesses the business to create a fit-forstructure and culture to ensure that purpose organisation.
Structure it is capable of delivering continued Strategic focus on working across the business to embed and Processes growth from the new businesses and strengthen the culture of One ITV way of working.
orrevenue streams and fails to ITV invests in training and development for all key attract, develop and retain key colleagues in the business.
creative, commercial and Succession plans are in place for all key positions within management talent with the skills theCompany.
required for the ongoing business.
There is significant loss of ITV is focused on both protecting and exploiting existing programme rights or ITV fails to rights and ensuring that future rights generated accrue identify and obtain the optimal toITV.
ITV has a detailed model to evaluate the value of thirdparty rights to ensure it only buys rights that make economic sense.
ITV fails to create and own ITV maximises opportunities for ITV Studios to create asufficient number of hit successful shows by investing in the creative pipeline and programmes formats across focusing on programmes and genres that can return and itsinternational portfolio of travel internationally, i. e. drama, entertainment and factual content companies.
entertainment, as evidenced by our increased investment inscripted content.
ITV is focused on hiring and retaining the right key creativetalent.
ITV fails to properly resource, Talent management plans have been developed and reviewed financially, creatively and to ensure adequate succession planning across ITV.
operationally, the new growth ITV continues to embed and strengthen the culture of businesses, in particular online OneITV way of working.
Lessons from recent investments are captured through post-acquisition reviews.
ITV remains heavily reliant on System requirements are kept under review with business legacy systems, which could growth and system modernisation projects implemented potentially restrict the ability to asappropriate.
These systems A modernisation plan is in place for the legacy systems which and processes may not be remains under constant review and development to ensure appropriate for non-advertising technology systems meet the needs of the business.
50 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Risks and Uncertainties Strategic priorities Maximising Growing Building Strategic risks Potential Risk Mitigating Factors Technology There is a sustained cyber viral We continue to improve our ability to monitor, detect and attack causing prolonged system respond to cyber threats internally and through partnerships denial or major reputational with specialist security organisations.
damage, for example the ability Mandatory online training modules, awareness campaigns tobroadcast our channels or the andsimplified information security policies have been availability of ITV Hub or ITV loses implemented for employees.
a significant volume of personal There are disaster recovery and incident management plans in orsensitive data.
place for high-risk areas of the business to help deliver a rapid and flexible response.
An Operational Risk Steering Group is in place to ensure the appropriate management of information security.
A significant high-profile incident ITV has ongoing modernisation projects to ensure or series of events e. g. a system transmission and distribution technologies are fit-for-purpose.
failure, a technology issue, or a There are disaster recovery and incident management plans major regulatory breach that inplace in high risk areas of the business to help deliver a rapid causes significant reputational and flexible response.
ITV proactively manages its broadcast chain partners and suppliers to ensure the risk of incidents and regulatory breach is minimised.
ITV fails to ensure appropriate Disaster recovery plans are in place with tests conducted business continuity planning and annually on business critical systems.
resilience within its core systems, processes, platforms and technology infrastructure.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Adam Crozier Chief Executive ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51
