e s l e e n o y n a n a h t r e t t e b s Our values make us different r Strategic Report Our principal risks and uncertainties The risk management process is closely aligned to our strategy.
Risk The most significant principal risks identified by the Board and the is an inherent part of doing business.
The management of these risks corresponding mitigating controls are set out below in no order of is based on a balance of risk and reward determined through careful priority.
assessment of both the potential likelihood and impact as well as risk appetite.
Consideration is given to both reputational as well as financial Business continuity and major incidents response impact, recognising the significant commercial value attributable to the Sainsburys brand.
Each principal risk and uncertainty is Risk considered in the context of how it relates to the achievement of the A major incident or catastrophic event could impact on the Groups strategic objectives.
The current business strategy and Groups ability to trade.
objectives are categorised into the following areas of focus: Mitigation Sainsburys has detailed plans in place, supported by senior representatives who are trained in dealing with major incidents and have the authority levels to make decisions in the event of a potentially disruptive incident.
Great products The Business Continuity Steering Group meets quarterly to ensure and services at fair prices that the business continuity BC policy and strategy is fit for purpose.
In addition, it oversees the mitigation of all risks associated Colleagues making the with BC and IT disaster recovery.
In the event of any unplanned or difference unforeseen events the Business Continuity Management Team is convened at short notice to manage the response and any associated risk to the business.
All key strategic locations have secondary backup sites which would be There for our made available within pre-defined timescales and are regularly tested.
customers Business strategy and change Risk If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does not The risk discussion includes assessment of both gross and net risk, communicate or implement its strategies effectively, the where gross risk reflects the risk exposure and risk landscape before business may be negatively impacted.
Risks to delivering the considering the mitigations in place and net risk being the residual strategy, change initiatives forming part of the strategy and risk after mitigations.
The risk appetite for each key risk is also other significant supporting change, such as the internal discussed and assessed.
The gross risk movement from prior year for transformation of the Digital and Technology function, need to each principal risk and uncertainty has been assessed and is be properly understood and managed to deliver long-term presented as follows: growth for the benefit of all stakeholders alongside management of business as usual.
Mitigation No change Increased gross Reduced gross The strategic review was completed in November 2014 resulting in an risk exposure risk exposure update strategy focused on the following: We know our customers better than anyone else: Mitigations in place supporting the management of the risk to a net risk position are also described for each principal risk and uncertainty.
There for our customers: Great products and services at fair prices: Key risk movements Colleagues making the difference: and The key risks are discussed and monitored throughout the year to Our values make us different.
identify changes to the risk landscape.
Over the last year, as part of the strategic review process the principal risks were reviewed and Progress against these areas of focus and any risks to delivery, such updated in line with the Companys strategic objectives.
This has as the ability to implement and deliver change and new business resulted in a more streamlined set of principal risks from the prior initiatives, are regularly reviewed by the Board and the overall year with a number of key business as usual risks being returned to strategy is reviewed at the annual two-day Strategy Conference.
the divisional level for ongoing management and monitoring.
In TheOperating Board also holds regular sessions to discuss strategy.
addition, the business strategy risk has been updated to provide This activity is supported by a dedicated strategy team.
To ensure the focus on the risk associated with change initiatives forming part of strategy is communicated and understood, the Group engages with the business strategy.
In addition, risks associated with the awide range of stakeholders including shareholders, colleagues, competitive landscape are given greater focus as part of the trading customers and suppliers on a continual basis.
In addition, environment and competitive landscape principal risk.
Finally, the management performs ongoing monitoring of business as usual previously separate disclosure of pensions risk is now reflected as part performance to determine indicators of potential negative of the Finance and treasury risk where the mitigating actions sit.
performance as a result of change initiatives.
28 e m o t s u c r u o w o n k e W Strategic Report Colleague engagement, retention and capability Environment and sustainability Risk Risk The Group employs over 150,000 colleagues who are critical to Environment and sustainability are core to Sainsburys values.
the success of our business.
Attracting and maintaining good The key risk facing the Group in this area relates to reducing the relations with talented colleagues and investing in their training environmental impact of the business with a focus on reducing and development is essential to the efficiency and packaging and new ways of reducing waste and energy usage sustainability of the Groups operations.
Delivery of the strategic across stores, depots and offices.
objectives, including development of new businesses and Mitigation progress on multi-channel, increases the risk of ability to attract, A number of initiatives are in place, which are being led by the motivate and retain talent, specific skill sets and capability.
In Environmental Action Team and the Corporate Responsibility Steering addition, the challenging trading environment requires a focus Group, to reduce our environmental impact and to meet our on efficient operations which may include change initiatives customers expectations in this area.
Further details are included in impacting colleagues, therefore presenting a risk of loss of the Corporate Responsibility review on pages 51 to 52. colleague trust or engagement.
Mitigation Financial and treasury risk The Groups employment policies and remuneration and benefits packages are regularly reviewed and are designed to be competitive Risk with other companies, as well as providing colleagues with fulfilling The main financial risks are the availability of short and career opportunities.
Colleague surveys, performance reviews, long-term funding to meet business needs and fluctuations in communications with trade unions and regular communication of interest, commodity and foreign currency rates.
business activities are some of the methods the Group uses to The business has now acquired full ownership of Sainsburys understand and respond to colleagues needs.
In addition to strong Bank which presents a risk that the Groups financial leadership and nurturing of talent by line managers, processes are performance and position may be negatively impacted if the also in place to identify talent and actively manage succession Bank transition and performance is not delivered as planned.
Ongoing reviews are performed to The transitional risk may have an adverse impact on people, understand the capability and specific skill sets required to deliver processes, regulatory compliance and technical infrastructure objectives.
This is supported by embracing new ways of attracting and failure to manage the transition successfully may have an talent and our corporate value Great Place to Work reinforces our adverse impact on the Sainsburys brand.
commitment to giving people the opportunity to be the best they can be.
In addition, there remains a risk around pensions as the Group operates a number of pension arrangements that are subject Colleague surveys, performance reviews, listening groups, torisks in relation to liabilities as a result of changes in life communications with trade unions, regular communication of expectancy and inflation and to risks regarding the value of business activities and colleague networking forums such as Yammer investments and the returns derived from such investments.
and My Sainsburys are some of the methods the Group uses to Mitigation understand and respond to colleagues needs.
As change initiatives are implemented, the methods described above will continue to be The Group Treasury function is responsible for managing the Groups employed to understand and maintain colleague trust and liquid resources, funding requirements, interest rate and currency engagement.
exposures and the associated risks, as set out in note 28 on pages 117 to 123.
The Group Treasury function has clear policies and operating procedures which are regularly reviewed and audited.
Data security Executive sponsorship and a change governance structure are in Risk place to manage and oversee the Bank transition which includes the It is essential that the security of customer, colleague and Bank Transition Committee.
Regular updates of transition progress to Company confidential data is maintained.
A major breach of plan are provided to the Bank Board and to the Sainsbury plc Board.
information security could have a major negative financial and In addition, Sainsburys Bank operates an enterprise wide risk reputational impact on the business.
The risk landscape is management framework and risk management processes include increasingly challenging with deliberate acts of cyber crime on early identification of key transitional risks along with mitigation the rise targeting all markets and heightening the risk exposure.
Tracking of risk mitigation effectiveness will be ongoing Mitigation throughout the transitional period.
A Data Governance Committee is established and is supported by The principal treasury risks relating to the Bank and associated focused working groups looking at the management of colleague mitigations are set out in note 28 to the financial statements on data, customer data, information security, commercial data and pages 117 to 123. awareness and training.
In July 2014, a Data Governance Programme Manager was appointed to oversee the activities of the working With regard to pensions, an investment strategy is in place which has groups and ensure activities are co-ordinated and risk based.
Various been developed by the pension trustee, in consultation with the information security policies and standards are in place which focus Company, to mitigate the volatility of liabilities, to diversify on encryption, network security, access controls, system security, investment risk and to manage cash.
In September 2013, the data protection and information handling.
A review of key third Sainsburys Defined Benefit Pension Scheme was closed to future parties who hold sensitive customer or colleague data continues to contributions which will help us to manage the escalating costs of take place, and progress is monitored by the Information Security pensions and protect the pensions that colleagues have already built team.
A risk based security testing approach across Sainsburys IT up in the Scheme.
infrastructure and applications is in place to identify and remediate ongoing vulnerabilities.
29 Strategic Report Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Health and safety people and product Risk Prevention of injury or loss of life for both colleagues and customers is of utmost importance.
In addition, it is paramount to maintaining the confidence our customers have in our business.
Mitigation Clear policies and procedures are in place detailing the controls required to manage health and safety and product safety risks across the business and comply with all applicable regulations.
These cover the end-to-end operation, from the auditing and vetting of construction contractors, to the health and safety processes in place in our depots, stores and offices, to the controls in place to ensure people and product safety and integrity.
In addition, established product testing programmes are also in place to support rigorous monitoring of product traceability and provide assurance over product safety and integrity.
Supplier terms and conditions and product specifications set clear standards for product raw material safety and quality which suppliers are expected to comply with.
Process compliance is supported by external accreditation and internal training programmes, which are aligned to both health and safety laws and Sainsburys internal policies.
In addition, resource is dedicated to manage the risk effectively, in the form of the Group Safety Committee and specialist safety teams.
Trading environment and competitive landscape Risk Effective management of the trading account is key to the achievement of performance targets.
The sector outlook has been and is set to remain challenging.
The challenging trading environment, food price deflation and the price reduction and price matching activity across the sector may adversely impact performance.
Mitigation We adopt a differentiated strategy with a continued focus on delivering quality products and services at fair prices, helping our customers Live Well For Less.
This is achieved through the continuous review of our product quality, key customer metrics, monitoring of current market trends, active management of price positions, development of sales propositions and focused promotion and marketing activity.
In November 2014 we announced our plan to continue to invest in the quality of products.
We also announced additional investment in price which will be used to cut regular prices on some of the most popular items in customers baskets.
In delivering our strategic plan, including our price investment, we will maintain the strength of our balance sheet and have therefore identified a series of measures to conserve cash in the business and deliver sustainable operating cost savings.
