Strategic Report Principal Risks Any business undertaking will involve some risk with many risk factors common to any business no matter what sector it operates in.
The Directors acknowledge however that certain risks and uncertainties are more specific to the Group and the markets in which its businesses operate.
The principle risk factors are assessed below: Omnichannel Risk and Impact Mitigating Activities Brands The retail fascias offer a proposition that has a mixture of third party and own brand product.
The Group seeks to ensure it is not overly reliant on a small number of brands by offering a These fascias are heavily dependent on the products and the brands themselves being stable of own brands which is constantly evolving.
Where possible, the Groups retail fascias desirable to the customer if the revenue streams are to grow.
Therefore, the Group needs all also work in partnership with the third party brands in their business on the design of bespoke of its third party and own brands, including brands licensed exclusively to it, to maintain product which is then exclusive to the Groups fascias.
Further, the Group continues to actively their design and marketing prominence to sustain that desirability.
seek additional brands which it can either own or license exclusively.
The Group is also subject to the distribution policies operated by some third party brands.
Intellectual Property The Groups trademarks and other intellectual property rights are critical in maintaining the The Group therefore works with third party organisations to ensure that the Groups value of the Groups own brands.
Ensuring that the Groups businesses can use these brands intellectual property is registered in all relevant territories.
The Group also actively works to exclusively is critical in providing a point of differentiation to our customers and without this prevent counterfeit product being passed off as legitimate.
exclusivity we believe that footfall into the stores, visits to our websites and ultimately conversion of these visits into revenues would all be reduced.
Retail Property Factors The retail landscape has seen significant changes in recent years with a number of new Wherever possible, the Group will seek a number of protections when agreeing to new developments opened and a high volume of retail units becoming vacant.
The Group can property leases: be exposed where it has committed itself to a long lease in a location which, as a result of New leases generally taken out for a maximum period of 10 years.
a more recent retail development, is no longer as attractive to the customer leading to Look to agree a break option part way through the lease.
reduced footfall and potentially lower sales volumes.
Agree rents which flex with turnover in the store.
When the Group determines that the current store performance is unsatisfactory then an assessment is made on whether the Group wants to continue trading in that location.
If it does then the landlord is approached to see whether we can reach an agreement on a reduction in the rent or a change to a turnover based rent.
If it is considered that the best solution is to exit the store completely then the landlord is approached with a view to a complete surrender of the lease.
If this is not possible then the Group would alternatively seek to assign the lease or sublet it to another retailer.
In many cases, this necessitates the payment of an incentive.
The Group is mindful of current economic factors and the adverse impact on the potential for disposal from the high volume of vacant units already available as a consequence of a number of retailers going out of business in recent years.
Assigning the lease or finding a sub-tenant is not without risk because if the other retailer fails then the liability to pay the rent usually reverts to the head lessee.
The Group monitors the financial condition of the assignees closely for evidence that the possibility of a store returning is more than remote and makes a provision for the return of stores if this risk looks probable.
The Board reviews the list of assigned leases regularly and is comfortable that appropriate provisions have been made where there is a probable risk of the store returning to the Group under privity of contract and, other than as disclosed in note 25, they are not aware of any other stores where there is a possible risk of these stores returning.
Seasonality The Groups core retail business is highly seasonal.
Historically, the Groups most important The business monitors stock levels and manages the peaks in demand constantly with trading period in terms of sales, profitability and cash flow in its Sports Fashion fascias in regular sales re-forecasting.
particular has been the Christmas season.
Lower than expected performance in this period may have an adverse impact on results for the full year, which may cause excess inventories that are difficult to liquidate.
Economic Factors As with other retailers and distributors into retail businesses, the demand for the Groups The Group seeks to manage this risk by offering a highly desirable and competitively priced products is influenced by a number of economic factors, notably interest rates, the product range, which is highly differentiated from that of the Groups competitors.
availability of consumer credit, employment levels and ultimately, disposable incomes.
Reliance on Non-UK Manufacturers The majority of both third party branded product and the Groups own branded product is The Group works with its suppliers to ensure that the products being sourced satisfy sourced outside of the UK.
The Group is therefore exposed to the risks associated with increasingly stringent laws and regulations governing issues of health and safety, packaging international trade and transport as well as different legal systems and operating standards.
and labelling and other social and environmental factors.
Whilst the Group can manage the risk in the supply chain on its own and licensed products, it Compliance is monitored by the Groups Supply Chain and Change Director who has has little control over the supply chain within the third party brands.
As such, the Group is extensive experience in this area.
exposed to events which may not be under its control.
49 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Principal Risks Continued Omichannel Continued Consistency of Infrastructure Risk and impact Mitigating Activities IT The Group relies on its IT systems and networks and those of the banks and the credit card The Group is progressing with a programme to replace its legacy enterprise system.
However, companies to service its retail customers all year round.
whilst a move to a third party system will reduce the risks in the current system there is significant execution risk during the migration work which could take longer than currently The principal legacy enterprise system has historically been ideally suited to the operations of anticipated to complete.
Further, the introduction of a third party system is bringing the business but it has always been heavily reliant on a very limited number of key additional costs both in terms of the initial development and ongoing support.
development staff who have now left the business.
This risk has been mitigated by improving documentation of the system and recruiting external developers to support the system.
Any long term interruption in the availability of the core enterprise system would have a significant impact on the retail businesses.
The Group manages this risk by the principal IT servers being housed in a third party location which has a mirror back up available should the primary servers or links fail.
Warehouse Operations The Groups new warehouse in Rochdale became operational during 2012.
Having the stock The Group has worked with its insurers on a Business Continuity Plan which came into effect in one location with increased automation in the picking process has brought benefits in when the warehouse became operational.
This plan has since been reviewed and enhanced terms of capacity, product availability, quicker deliveries to our European stores and reduced by the Group Supply Chain and Change Director.
However, there is an increased risk to store replenishment and multichannel In addition, there is a full support contract with our automation equipment providers which fulfillment from both equipment and system failure, together with the inherent risk of having includes a 24 7 presence from a qualified engineer thereby enabling immediate attention to all the stock in one location.
Personnel The success of the Group is partly dependent upon the continued service of its key management To help achieve this continued service, the Group has competitive reward packages for all personnel and upon its ability to attract, motivate and retain suitably qualified employees.
More specifically for the retail businesses, the Group also has a long established and substantial training function which seeks to develop training for all levels of retail employees and thereby increase morale and improve staff retention.
This then ensures that knowledge of the Groups differentiated product offering is not lost, thereby enhancing customer service.
Health and Safety The health and safety of our customers and employees is of the utmost importance.
There is a comprehensive induction and training programme for store staff covering Health Policies are implemented in conjunction with training programmes to protect our employees and Safety issues.
Personal injuries, distress and fatalities could result from a failure to establish The Group Health and Safety Committee meets on a monthly basis: is chaired by the Group and maintain safe environments.
Health and Safety Manager and includes as its attendees the Group Company Secretary and Group Property Director.
The Group Health and Safety Manager appraises the Board of material issues and, incidents on a periodic basis.
Targets are set by the Board to enable measurement of performance.
Performance against targets, incidents and legal claims that arise are reported to the Board.
The Group also works closely with its principal insurers who undertake regular risk reviews both in the store portfolio and in the main central warehouse.
Treasury and Financial Risk The Group is exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates principally Sterling US Dollar The Group sets a buying rate for the purchase of goods in US dollars at the start of the consequent to the sourcing of own brand merchandise where suppliers are located principally buying season typically six to nine months before the product actually starts to appear in in the Far East or Indian Sub-Continent.
Strengthening of the US Dollar relative to Sterling the stores and then enters into a number of local currency US dollar contracts, using a makes product sourced in this currency more expensive thus reducing profitability.
variety of instruments, whereby the minimum exchange rate on the purchase of dollars is guaranteed.
The Group typically looks to protect approximately 90% of the US dollar Product for the JD fascia throughout Europe is purchased by JD Sports Fashion Plc which is requirement for the following year.
the main UK trading business.
This business then sells to the international businesses in their local currencies.
Given the current geographical location of the Groups stores then this results The Group encourages its own brand suppliers to quote in euros where possible thus creating in a Sterling Euro exposure in the UK trading business for the euros which are remitted back a natural hedge against the euros remitted from the international businesses.
The surplus for stock purchases.
euros are also used to fund the international store developments thus alleviating the need for local third party financing.
Brian Small Chief Financial Officer 15 April 2015 50
