22 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 1.
Overview Risks and Uncertainties The effective identification and management of risks and opportunities across the group are integral to the delivery of the groups strategic objectives.
The groups approach to risk management necessary.
As part of that process, the Availability of strategic materials, is aimed at the early identification of key most significant risks identified are collated which was a principal risk in risks and the taking of action to remove into a Group Risk Register.
The Group 2013 14, is included as a subset or reduce the likelihood of those risks Risk Register is reviewed by the Group of a new risk supply chain to reflect occurring and their effect.
The board Management Committee GMC and the complexity and challenges of has overall responsibility for ensuring the board.
The effectiveness of current our supply chain activity, legislative that risk is effectively managed across controls and the status and progression and customer requirements.
the group and the Audit Committee is of mitigation actions and plans are Intellectual property description responsible for reviewing the effectiveness monitored for each individual risk.
of risk is broadened to include of the groups system of internal control.
Our 2014 15 risk management cyber risk.
This includes the approach to risk assessment has resulted in several Ethics and compliance is added management and the procedures for the changes to our principal risks and as a new risk.
These changes include: mitigation and reporting of risk and IT systems failure risk is included Responding to, identifying or assurance of mitigating actions.
The as a subset of a broader business capitalising on appropriate new or group has a process in place for the transformation risk.
growth opportunities is expanded continuous review of its risks.
As part into two separate risks to reflect In delivering our strategy, it is of the risk management process, each differing risk appetite for new and important that we understand and division reviews its risks and its mitigation existing business and an increase manage the risks that face us.
The table strategies and actions and discusses in acquisition activity.
below outlines our principal risks and relevant risks with each business as identifies which strategic objectives they could impact.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES Invest in people, Operational The products Build on excellence Johnson Best of Collaborate Growth and our core and Matthey big and to leverage from new Customer Create technology strengths sustainability culture small our expertise businesses focus value nn n n n n Growth within our existing business nn nn STRATEGIC New business nn n nn n Technological change nn n n n n MARKET Global economy and political uncertainty nn n n n Environment, health and safety nn n n Supply chain nn n n n n People nn n n Security of assets OPERATIONAL nn n nn n Intellectual property and know-how nn n Failure of significant sites nn n nn n Ethics and compliance nn n n nn n Business transformation PRINCIPAL RISKS 23 The following table sets out the 2014 15 principal risks and uncertainties facing the group, the mitigating actions for each and an update on any change in the profile of each risk during the course of the year.
The net risk rating after mitigating controls is also shown.
STRATEGIC Growth within our existing business Responding to, identifying or capitalising on appropriate growth opportunities within our existing business.
Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2014 The groups existing activities are well The group and each business prepare a strategic annual report placed to deliver good growth over the plan to review demand in existing markets and No change.
Failure to identify and potential new opportunities.
These plans are respond to customer requirements or regularly monitored and challenged.
competitor activity could impact the ability Risk rating The business structure, skills and resources of the group to achieve its strategy and are continuously assessed and amended High or maintain growth and or market share.
New business Responding to, identifying or capitalising on appropriate new growth opportunities.
Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2014 We have identified and continue to The group and each business prepare a strategic annual report identify a number of opportunities to plan to review potential new opportunities.
complement and diversify our business plans are regularly monitored and challenged.
Failure to identify new The group continues to invest in new business opportunities could impact the ability Risk rating development and to identify and convert targets of the group to achieve its strategy for acquisition.
Medium and or maintain growth and or We continue to target market share.
potential new markets and develop new businesses, both organically and through acquisition.
The most significant development for new businesses is the formation of the battery materials business.
Technological change Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2014 Johnson Matthey operates in highly The group continues to invest in existing and new annual report competitive markets in which technology products and technologies through R&D including No change.
Constant product through its technology centres around the world innovation is critical to maintain and as part of our ten year technology plan.
There is constant innovation and development Failure to keep up with changes in the in cooperation with our key customers.
Low market place and to maintain our The group invests in its people to ensure that it Our commitment to technology pipeline could result in a lack maintains a high level of relevant scientific expertise.
innovation, research and of competitive products and erosion of development is described margins and or loss of market share.
We are extending our network of group research technology centres and continue to collaborate with leading academics and institutions around the world.
We also opened a new technology centre for our diagnostic services business.
We invested 169.9 million in R&D in the year 2013 14 152.3 million.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 24 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 1.
Overview Risks and Uncertainties continued MARKET Global economy and political uncertainty Responding to changes in global political and economic conditions or future environmental legislation.
Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2014 The global nature of the groups business The group maintains a balanced portfolio of annual report exposes it to risk arising from economic, products and businesses and serves a wide range No change.
political and legislative change in the of diverse customers which reduces the impact of countries in which it operates.
a change to any one market.
Risk rating Failure to respond to sudden short and Management continuously monitors the medium term changes in the market performance of our businesses across the world High or economy or a sustained period of at both business and group level.
economic weakness in our markets Our cost base contains a significant variable could have a material adverse effect element and is flexible to changing political and on the groups results.
The group has no influence upon Forthcoming changes in emissions legislation are changes in inflation, interest rates or well understood and our products are designed other economic factors affecting its to meet these increased requirements.
In addition, the possibility of Profit margins can be maintained with continuous political unrest and legal or regulatory improvements in technology to reduce the cost changes also exists in countries in and improve the effectiveness of our products.
Regular reviews are undertaken to monitor areas Over 60% of the groups sales are driven of new potential legislation.
by environmental legislation, particularly Lobbying activities are undertaken where legislation over emissions from light and appropriate to improve the understanding of heavy duty vehicles.
Further tightening regulatory and legislative bodies.
of global emissions legislation generally requires improved technological solutions and the extension of emissions legislation to new applications can create opportunities for the group.
A curtailment in environmental legislation around the world could limit the groups growth potential and undermine profit margins.
25 OPERATIONAL Environment, health and safety Operating safely, including in line with changes in health, safety, environmental and other regulations and standards.
Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2014 In common with similar manufacturing Detailed health, safety and environmental processes annual report companies, the group operates in a are documented in our operating manuals, No change.
challenging safety environment that communicated and reviewed regularly and used as is subject to numerous health, safety the basis for continuous training and development.
Risk rating and environmental laws, regulations Robust maintenance programmes are undertaken and standards.
in order to ensure that our facilities and assets meet Low Failure to operate safely and respond the applicable group and legislative standards.
Health and safety is a core to changes made to applicable laws, The group carries out regular internal audits to value.
Our commitment to regulations or standards could adversely ensure compliance with current group policies and health and safety and impact the groups employees or other applicable laws, regulations and standards such environmental performance stakeholders, our manufacturing as ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
Our quality is described on pages 58 capability or the marketability of standards are also scrutinised externally by to 61 and pages 74 to 77 our products.
customers, suppliers and the relevant authorities.
Changes in legislation are carefully monitored and, if required, the composition of our products is amended to comply with the latest legislation.
We are committed to proactive communication and to building open relationships with the authorities and relevant legislative bodies, both directly and through the relevant trade associations.
Supply chain includes availability of strategic materials.
Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2014 The group operates in a number of We are working with our suppliers to ensure annual report locations across the world.
It sources the integrity of our supply chain and continually New risk.
and supplies goods nationally and review mode of transport and shipping routes.
internationally and is therefore exposed We employ and buy in specialist knowledge to risks associated with a complex and to understand and comply with international Risk rating international supply chain.
It uses many trade requirements.
Medium raw materials within its manufacturing Although most of the worlds platinum is mined processes, several raw materials are in South Africa, the group has access to world available from only a limited number markets for platinum and other precious metals of countries and or suppliers.
and is not dependent on any one source for Disruption to the supply or a change in obtaining supplies.
the groups ability to access sufficient Appropriate sourcing arrangements are in place quantities of these raw materials, most for other key raw materials to ensure that the notably platinum group metals, rare earth group is not dependent on any one supplier.
materials or narcotic raw materials, could Where possible the group enters into fixed price adversely affect the groups operations.
contracts for key raw materials.
This may be due to increased prices or because our ability to manufacture We work closely with key suppliers to ensure and supply products to customers may availability, including through audits, be impacted.
benchmarking and specific risk reviews.
We regularly monitor forecast requirements and hold buffer stocks.
We look to identify alternative raw materials where appropriate.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 26 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 1.
Overview Risks and Uncertainties continued OPERATIONAL continued People The effective recruitment, retention and development of high quality staff to support the growth of our business.
Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2014 The group relies upon its ability to recruit, Global employee development programmes are in annual report retain and develop employees around place.
These include training of manufacturing Over the past two years a the world with the necessary range of leaders to run our operations in a consistent and number of changes have skills and experience to meet its stated efficient way.
been made across the objectives, including in relation to A talent review process has been introduced to senior management team.
focus on strategic people issues.
The senior management succession has been The existing management team has Regular reviews of management succession plans successfully managed.
many years of experience at Johnson are carried out and are closely monitored by the This risk is unchanged Matthey, operating in the markets and Nomination Committee.
developing the technologies in which Global remuneration policies are in place to ensure the group maintains a presence.
appropriate rewards to motivate and retain staff.
Ineffective succession on the departure Risk rating We undertake a continuous assessment of the skills of senior management or the lack of an required within the group and action plans are put in Medium appropriately skilled workforce could place to address identified gaps.
adversely impact the groups ability to perform in line with expectations.
Security of assets Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2014 On any given day, the group has The group has well developed security, assay and annual report significant quantities of high value other process controls.
precious metals or highly regulated We complete security checks to safeguard both substances on site and in transit, the our tangible and intangible assets.
Risk rating security of which is critical.
Annual security audits are carried out across A material loss due to a breach in the Low the group.
groups security measures, including Insurance cover is maintained for losses from theft or fraud, could be significant to theft or fraud.
Intellectual property IP and know-how Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2014 The group operates in markets in which The group has established policies and procedures annual report the generation and application of for registering patents and for monitoring its existing Increasing due to advances technology know-how and IP allows an patent portfolio and those of third parties.
in technology and our advantage to be maintained.
Careful We defend infringement claims and challenge new competitor landscape.
monitoring of competitors IP is required patents where appropriate.
to ensure that breaches of their rights We continuously evaluate operating restrictions are not made by the group.
Risk rating and opportunities available to us through the use Failure to establish the groups IP rights of our IP and know-how.
Medium or to identify third parties IP rights could Know-how is protected by non-disclosure undermine the groups competitive agreements and legal measures.
advantage, particularly given the groups We restrict internal and external access to IP and expansion into new markets.
not noting the expiration of patents held by third parties could mean the We complete security checks to safeguard our loss of potential business opportunities.
intangible assets, including cyber checks.
Protecting our broader know-how is We invest in information security, employee equally important to ensure that we awareness and IT systems to prevent and maintain this advantage.
Our investment in technical developments partially mitigates the risks to our IP and know-how.
27 OPERATIONAL continued Failure of significant sites Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2014 While the group operates from a variety Business continuity plans include consideration annual report of locations, certain sites are critical to of circumstances in which alternative back up No change.
the group due to their scale or the specific locations may be required.
nature of their production activities.
Capacity and demand planning includes Risk rating Failure of one of our critical sites could consideration of the sites significance.
significantly impact the performance Medium Given the nature of the groups operating activities, of the group.
these can be replicated at other locations with reasonable ease and in a short time frame.
Ethics and compliance Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2014 Due to the markets in which we operate, We have policies and procedures in place and annual report and the complexity of our supply chain, conduct training to ensure employee awareness Whilst there has been the group is exposed to a changing and understanding.
little in the way of new and increasingly stringent governance We operate an independent confidential legislation, we have seen and regulatory environment.
Ethical whistleblowing hotline for employees, contractors increased enforcement misconduct, breaches of applicable and third parties.
laws and regulations could impact We keep abreast of applicable laws, recruit New risk.
our reputation, licence to operate, specialist staff and use third party support shareholder value and financial results.
Risk rating Medium Business transition Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2014 To transition our business we are Ongoing supervision and oversight by the annual report investing in our core functions systems, Chief Executive and the GMC who report to There are a number of upgrading our business information the board on key initiatives.
programmes being systems and enhancing our human Project and portfolio management and undertaken in addition to resources and talent management governance frameworks are in place to monitor our investment plans for IT processes.
systems which will result in Failure in our transition programme significant change.
We have Human Resources support and communication and change management process and therefore concluded that are in place to manage change.
governance could impact our ability this is a new risk which will Continuous review of our IT infrastructure and to deliver our strategy and exploit the increase in the short term.
Failure of one IT disaster recovery and general business or more of our major IT systems over continuity plans are regularly updated.
Risk rating an extended period could impact our ability to manufacture or to report our Medium operational performance.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
