RISK MANAGEMENT The Board is responsible for identifying the nature and extent of the The Group has identified the following key risks.
This is not an risks the Group has to manage in order to pursue its growth strategy exhaustive list but rather a list of the most material risks facing the successfully and generate shareholder value over the long-term.
The impact of these risks, individually or collectively, could Board confirms that they have carried out a robust assessment of the potentially affect the ability of the Group to operate profitably and principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten generate positive cash flows in the medium to long-term.
As a result, its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
these risks are actively monitored and managed, as detailed below.
TheBoard uses a risk framework which is designed to support the process for identifying, evaluating and managing both financial andnon-financial risks.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATING ACTION STRATEGIC RISKS GROWTH Jimmy Choos long-term growth is dependent The Board has approved well-structured growth plans STRATEGY on making strategic choices to move into new and ensured that those plans are adequately resourced.
The wrong strategy or poor execution could put future The Board regularly challenges the strategic plans to growth at risk.
ensure that downside risks are mitigated.
The Board closely monitors the progress against the Strategic Plan, redirecting strategy or execution effort when required.
COMPETITIVE Jimmy Choo competes with other luxury goods Senior Management monitors competitor movements ENVIRONMENT companies for clients, talent, retail sites, wholesale and ensures Jimmy Choo hires and retains the best customers and supplier capacity.
Failure to compete people to compete effectively in each area, including: well in any of these areas risks future growth.
Design and Merchandising continuously focusing on future design and consumer trends: Supply Chain negotiating and building strong relationships with current and future suppliers: Retail seeking and acquiring appropriate store locations and striving for operational excellence: Wholesale nurturing strong relationships with keycustomers: and CRM and client engagement building on our relationships with clients to increase their engagement with the brand.
CHANGES IN Future success depends on Jimmy Choos ability Design and Merchandising teams have a structured CONSUMER to shape, predict and respond to fashion trends and approach to monitoring trends internally and externally PREFERENCES consumer preferences on both products and channels.
and use the feedback to develop each collection to be ANDTRENDS Failure to do so risks surplus inventory, missed sales coherent with future design and consumer trends.
opportunities and reducing salience of the brand with clients.
Retail teams monitor client channel preferences.
Inaddition, Jimmy Choo has started a programme ofOmnichannel development, which is planned to beginaprogressive roll out before the end of 2016.
Marketing and Brand Image teams ensure the brandbook and marketing are aligned and relevant to the marketplace.
OPERATIONAL RISKS KEY PERSONNEL Jimmy Choo needs to attract and retain the best People policies and management culture are reviewed people in each area.
regularly to ensure that they continue to be effective in maintaining Jimmy Choo as an attractive place to work.
Bonuses and incentive plans are reviewed regularly with the Remuneration Committee to ensure that they remain competitive with the industry.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 42 RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATING ACTION THIRD PARTY If suppliers do not produce product on time, in the Jimmy Choo has a dedicated supply chain, as well as PRODUCTION rightquantity, at the right quality levels, or fail to meet product development and engineering offices, close to local laws and regulations, this would constrain the where the suppliers are located.
This helps to build availability of stock in stores and for delivery to our strong relationships with suppliers and manages those wholesale customers.
suppliers tightly to production deadlines and contracts.
To ensure product availability to support future growth, Jimmy Choo plans volume and capacity clearly in advance.
Jimmy Choo maintains knowledge of supplier capability on an ongoing basis to determine where constraints could arise in the future.
IT SYSTEMS Jimmy Choos IT systems need to be robust against Senior Management reviews the IT strategy and power outages, computer, network, telecommunications operation regularly to ensure that IT systems are robust, failures, computer viruses, security breaches and user secure and continue to be appropriate for the size and error.
Failure to do so could lead to critical data loss, complexity of Jimmy Choos business.
delays or interruption to business operation.
In addition, Jimmy Choo maintains a disaster recoveryplan.
OUTSOURCING Logistics, IT and transactional accounting activities are Legal contracts and service catalogues have been SERVICES TO outsourced to JAB Luxurys shared services company, signed between Jimmy Choo and GBS.
Both parties are GLOBAL BUSINESS LLX Global Business Services SA and its affiliates committed to improving the KPIs over time.
Reductions in GBS performance risk impacting Jimmy Choos operations and reductions in GBS Performance is monitored on a daily and periodic basis efficiency would lead to lost business and increased and reported monthly.
A clear remediation process is in costs for Jimmy Choo.
PROGRAMME RISK Interruption or reduced performance during Strong programme governance, structures, planning AND CHANGE implementation of the operational transformation processes, reporting frameworks and communication MANAGEMENT programmes would impact current operations.
If the plans are put in place on all programmes in Jimmy Choo, scope of transformation reduced, future development linking project delivery teams from GBS to key staff in the plans of the business would be put at risk.
Within these programmes, Senior Management is prepared to enact decisions quickly as required to The operation of enterprise-wide systems like SAP ensure the programme is implemented successfully.
requires a careful and controlled change management process to avoid system changes disrupting Smaller scale changes are managed through a Change performance and affecting operations.
Request Board consisting of Jimmy Choo and GBS Senior Management.
This ensures that system and operational changes are fully documented, agreed, managed and implemented in an effective way to avoidrisk and disruption to the business.
It is also noteworthy that while the wholesale business was slightly disrupted by the transfer to the new supply chain in the early part of the year, remedial measures taken were effective and a substantial portion of the shortfall was recovered in the second half and we are proceeding to resolve all remaining issues.
COMPLIANCE RISKS COMPLIANCE Changes in laws and regulations could result in Employees in each area monitor regulatory requirements WITH LAWS AND JimmyChoo being non-compliant or incurring costs in their area e. g. Design, Merchandising and Supply REGULATIONS tobe compliant e. g. system changes.
If third parties Chain on consumer product safety, Retail on health and e. g. suppliers are not compliant, there would be a safety in stores and Supply Chain and Logistics on riskto brand image or of financial penalties.
The Jimmy Choo legal team liaise with these teams, provide an overall review and act swiftly should instances of non-compliance arise.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 43 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATING ACTION CUSTOMER Failure to comply with legal requirements and Jimmy Choo restricts access to customer data.
Robust CONFIDENTIALITY restrictions on the use of and access to customer data protocols are in place to ensure that client data is secure.
could harm Jimmy Choos brand reputation, credibility and client trust.
The security function within GBS undertakes regular audits to payment card industry standards.
FINANCIAL RISKS EXCHANGE RATE Products are purchased in Euro and sold in local The Board has approved a hedging strategy which seeks FLUCTUATIONS currencies.
In addition, store costs are incurred in local to minimise the adverse impact of exchange rate currencies.
Adverse movements in foreign exchange fluctuations on adjusted earnings.
rates would impact revenue growth reported in Sterling, as well as gross and net margins.
However, the impact of significant foreign exchange movements such as those seen in 2015 has a more fundamental impact beyond the direct financial effects, as it affects consumer behaviour and client purchase choices.
This is managed through careful attention to recommended retail pricing.
ECONOMIC Economic downturns in countries where Jimmy Choo Economic environment and international market risks DOWNTURN AND sells products may reduce sales and increase inventory.
are regularly reviewed by Senior Management, with INTERNATIONAL appropriate action taken as required e. g. reallocation MARKET RISK Changes in international trade laws, transportation of product or resources between regions and active costs, or local government instability could all impact management of inventory.
This has been evident with the continued slowdown in Russian clients travelling, especially in Europe, although the growth in Chinese visitors has offset this in 2015.
REPUTATIONAL RISKS IMAGE AND If Jimmy Choos products, stores, marketing, customer Brand quality is at the core of everything that the REPUTATION OF service and corporate profile fail to retain the distinctive business does.
THE BRAND Jimmy Choo character, quality and values, brand equity could be reduced and sales impacted.
This ensures that all areas of the business retain, maintain or improve the reputation of the brand and the Company e. g. design and quality of products, quality of marketing, store environment and client service.
Jimmy Choos contracts with franchisees, distributors and licensees are drafted to ensure the control of the brand is rigorously enforced.
CONTROL OF Wholesale customers and franchise stores could present Senior Management review all distribution partners THEWHOLESALE the brand in a manner not in keeping with Jimmy Choos carefully in advance of accepting them as a Jimmy Choo DISTRIBUTION brand positioning and DNA, damaging the image and partner.
CHANNEL reputation of the brand.
Jimmy Choos contracts with distribution partners aredrafted to ensure control of elements of the brandpresentation and these are rigorously enforced with partners.
I approve the Strategic Report set out on pages 11 to 44 on behalf of the Board.
PETER HARF NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN 21 March 2016 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 44 GOVERNANCE ONE YEAR INTO PUBLIC COMPANY LIFE WE HAVE SEEN A SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENT IN STANDARDS OF GOVERNANCE IN THE BUSINESS ALONGSIDE A STRONG AND ROBUST BOARD PETER HARF NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 47
