Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties New and existing risks were identified and assessed over The Board has carried out a robust thecourse of the year as the Groups overall risk profile assessment of the principal risks continued to evolve.
The Executive team and the Board performed further analysis to prioritise these risks, with facing the Group.
a focus on those considered to pose the greatest risk to achieving our objectives.
This included those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity to ensure the There are general business risks faced by JUST EAT, such principal risks and uncertainties were properly identified, as those disclosed within note 35, which are those generally evaluated, prioritised and addressed.
faced by other comparable online businesses.
However, there are also more concentrated risks and uncertainties During the course of the year, the Board defines the risk that affect our business or specific industry.
The principal appetite and monitors the management of significant risks risks presented below are those risks considered by the toensure that the nature and the extent of the significant Board to have a potentially material impact on the Group risks taken by the Company are aligned with the overall goals not achieving its long-term strategic objectives.
There are and strategic objectives that have been communicated.
The additional risks that the Group is exposed to, which are not Groups risk appetite influences the culture of our business considered material but could have an adverse impact.
and how we operate, and this is reflected in our management framework see page 47.
The Executive team supports the During 2015, the Board reduced the priority of two of the Board in monitoring the exposures through regular reviews.
principal risks highlighted in the previous year the risk Exposures outside of our appetite are communicated to the of changing consumer behaviour and the risk of nonBoard alongside actions to reduce the risk.
compliance with corporate reporting regulations.
Mitigating actions taken throughout the year have addressed the risks to a level that the Board no longer considers them to be principal risks in the current year.
Change in Strategic initiative Principal risk risk status potentially impacted Impact Controls to mitigate Competition All initiatives Demand for the Groups In line with our strategic initiatives, we will services and thereby continue building on our existing marketThe Group faces competition its prices, revenues, leading positions.
This includes focusing on our and potential new entrants margin and ultimately consumers, our restaurants and new innovation.
to the industry and to its market share could the markets in which we We monitor competition in the market and be affected.
use data analytics to ensure we can respond toconsumer and restaurant trends on a proactive basis.
Business growth Bringing Fragmentation of new We continue to perform extensive due diligence greater choice or expanded operations, of all new acquisitions and we closely monitor Challenges in growing and which are not aligned the market and country information being scaling the business both with the Groups provided.
A dedicated integration team is organically and through strategy.
Loss of control established to ensure all the benefits of any mergers and acquisitions.
resulting in financial or new entity are fully maximised and they are reputational damage.
integrated to the Group structure to allow the continued growth in that market.
A key challenging in growing organically is having sufficient cash resources with which to fund the business.
The Group remains PCI compliant and maintains a very favourable working capital cycle, with net operating cash flow representing 97% of Underlying EBITDA after adjusting for the impact of restaurant cash.
indd 28 06 03 2016 20:56 Strategic Report Change in Strategic initiative Principal risk risk status potentially impacted Impact Controls to mitigate Regulation and legislation Bringing Costs could be incurred Legislative changes continue to be monitored greater choice in ensuring compliance by our in-house legal and compliance functions Regulation and legislation with any new laws and our strategic responses are adjusted for for the food industry in key Driving or regulations.
The compliance function works across markets around the world channel shift compliance could be the business to ensure we remain compliant canchange, sometimes at damaging to the Groups with existing regulation and are able to highlight shortnotice.
reputation, and result in where changes may impact business processes.
penalties and heightened In key markets, we engage with different risk in the industry.
regulatory authorities such as trading standards New regulation or and other government agencies to keep abreast legislation could of the regulatory landscape.
materially impact the behaviour of restaurants and or consumers in our sector to our detriment.
Culture All initiatives Loss of culture may We focus on reinforcing our cultural values in cause key employees all manner of activities that staff are engaged in, The Groups culture may to leave or operate from work to social events.
Further information change detrimentally as the differently within the on the JUST EAT JAM is provided in the CSR business grows, affecting business, resulting section on page 31. theability to retain and in a loss of crucial recruittalent.
Employee ambassadors are engaged to ensure knowledge and or our the JUST EAT culture is promoted throughout competitive advantage.
the business, led proactively by senior management where appropriate.
We recognise the importance of retaining and attracting our highly qualified employees and strive to maintain a positive working environment which encourages innovation.
Technology dependency Improving The inability to service We have invested and committed considerable consumers or TRs will resources into upgrading existing technology, the consumer High dependency on experience result in reputational ITinfrastructure, and communication systems, technology and advanced damage and financial as well as developing and acquiring new information systems and the Bringing loss.
risk that such technology or greater choice systems could fail or could A continuous testing programme is employed not be scaled rapidly to meet to ensure functionality of product offerings business needs.
In particular, any damage to, Continual monitoring of the market is or failure of online systems performed by a dedicated team to ensure all and servers via external newdevelopments are assessed for their impact attack such as DDOS, access on our operations.
to JCT terminals and other The Group has a business recovery plan to restaurant systems, could minimise the disruption experienced during result in interruptions to anypotential service interruption.
The Group carefully monitors all new products in development and invests in high-calibre support when required.
Data protection Improving Reputational damage Sophisticated security mechanisms are deployed the consumer and financial losses to ensure all sensitive and confidential data is Increased brand awareness experience arising from penalties fully encrypted.
increases the risk of attracting and fines.
attacks on our brand, business Driving Regular communications to our stakeholders to operations and our consumers.
channel shift increase their awareness of potential threats.
The Group has established processes and systems to detect misuse of systems in order toreduce the likelihood of data loss.
Systems are regularly tested and continued investment in infrastructure will ensure they remain robust.
Key Risk impact new or increasing Risk impact unchanged 29 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs028-029.
