Principal risks and uncertainties Risks can materialise and impact on both the achievement of business Risk Risk description Potential impact Mitigation strategy and the successful running of our business.
A key element in achieving 01 our strategy and maintaining services to Market risk customers is the management of these risks.
Our risk management strategy is A rapid downturn in Inability to maintain a sustainable level of financial Failure to continue in operation or to meet Diversification of our markets, both in terms of geography and market segment.
therefore to support the successful performance throughout the construction industry our liabilities.
our markets Strong balance sheet.
market cycle which grows more than many other running of the business by identifying industries during periods of economic expansion and Leveraging the global scale of our Group.
and managing risks to an acceptable falls harder than many other industries when the Having strong local businesses to address geographic markets.
level and delivering assurances on this.
02 Strategic risks Failure to procure A failure to continue to win and retain contracts on Failure to achieve targets for revenue, Continually analysing our existing and target markets to ensure we understand the opportunities that satisfactory terms and conditions in our existing and profit and earnings.
new contracts new target markets if competition increases, customer Structured bid review processes in operation throughout the Group with well-defined selectivity criteria that requirements change or demand reduces due to are designed to ensure we take on contracts only where we understand and can manage the risks involved.
Losing our market share Inability to achieve sustainable growth, whether through Failure to achieve targets for revenue, Continually seeking to differentiate our offering through service quality, value for money and innovation.
acquisition, new products, new geographies or industry profits and earnings.
A Business Development function focusing on our customers requirements and understanding our competitors.
Minimising the risk of acquisitions, including getting to know a target company in advance, often working in joint venture, to understand the operational and cultural differences and potential synergies, as well as undertaking these through thorough due diligence and structured and carefully managed integration plans.
Implementing annual efficiency and improvement programmes to help us remain competitive.
Non-compliance with our Not maintaining high standards of ethics and compliance Losing the trust of our customers, suppliers Having clear policies and procedures in respect of ethics, integrity, regulatory requirements and contract in conducting our business or failing to meet legal or and other stakeholders with consequent management.
Code of Business Conduct regulatory requirements.
adverse effects on our ability to deliver Maintaining training programmes to ensure our people fully understand these policies and requirements.
against our strategy and business objectives.
Operating and encouraging the use of a whistleblowing facility.
Substantial damage to Kellers brand and or large financial penalties.
03 Financial risk Inability to finance our business Losing access to the financing facilities necessary to fund Breach of banking covenants or failure to Procedures to monitor the effective management of cash and debt, including weekly cash reports and regular the business.
continue in business or meet our liabilities.
04 Operational risks Product and or solution failure Failure of our product and or solution to achieve the Financial loss and consequent damage to Continuing to enhance our technological and operational capabilities through investment in our product teams, required standard.
project managers and our engineering capabilities.
Ineffective management of Failure to manage our contracts to ensure that they are Failure to achieve the margins, profits and Ensuring we understand all of our risks through the bid appraisal process and applying rigorous policies and delivered on time and to budget.
cash flows we expect from contracts.
processes to manage and monitor contract performance.
our contracts Ensuring we have high-quality people delivering projects.
Causing a serious injury or Failure to maintain high standards of Safety and Quality.
Damage to employee morale leading to A Board-led commitment to achieve zero accidents.
an increase in employee turnover rates, fatality to an employee or Visible management commitment with Safety Tours, Safety Audits and Safety Action Groups.
loss of customer, supplier and partner member of the public confidence and damage to our brand Implementing management systems that conform to Occupational Health & Safety Assessment System 18001. reputation in an area that we regard as Extensive mandatory employee training programmes.
Not having the right skills Inability to attract and develop excellent people to create Failure to maintain satisfactory Continuing to develop and implement leadership, personal development and employee engagement Movement in risk a high-quality, vibrant, diverse and flexible workforce.
performance in respect of our current programmes that encourage and support all our people to achieve their full potential.
to deliver Increased contracts and failure to deliver our No change strategy and business targets for growth.
Reduced KELLER GROUP PLC 26 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk Risk description Potential impact Mitigation 01 Market risk A rapid downturn in Inability to maintain a sustainable level of financial Failure to continue in operation or to meet Diversification of our markets, both in terms of geography and market segment.
performance throughout the construction industry our liabilities.
market cycle which grows more than many other industries during periods of economic expansion and Leveraging the global scale of our Group.
falls harder than many other industries when the Having strong local businesses to address geographic markets.
Not having the right skills Inability to attract and develop excellent people to create Failure to maintain satisfactory Continuing to develop and implement leadership, personal development and employee engagement a high-quality, vibrant, diverse and flexible workforce.
to deliver contracts and failure to deliver our strategy and business targets for growth.
KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 27 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk management How we identify risk The Board is responsible for setting the Groups Our risk management process has been built to Developing the viability statement risk appetite and ensuring that appropriate risk identify, evaluate, analyse and mitigate significant In developing the viability statement, it was management systems are in place.
The Board risks to the achievement of our strategy.
Our risk determined that a three-year period should reviews the Groups principal risks throughout identification processes seek to identify risks from be used, consistent with the period of the the year as part of its normal agenda, adopting both a top down strategic perspective and a Groups business planning processes and an integrated approach to risk management by bottom up local operating company perspective.
reflecting a reasonable approximation of the regularly discussing our principal risks.
In addition, maximum time taken from procuring a once a year the Board formally assesses the The Board project to completion.
Groups principal risks, taking the strength of The Board has overall responsibility for risk the Groups control systems and our appetite management, the setting of risk appetite and the Management reviewed the principal risks, and for risk into account.
implementation of the risk management policy.
considered which of these risks might threaten The Board reviews and challenges the Groups the Groups viability.
It was determined that The Board delegates responsibility for day-to-day principal risks on an ongoing basis.
none of the individual risks would in isolation risk management to the Executive Committee, compromise the Groups viability, and so a including the identification, evaluation and The Audit Committee number of different severe but plausible monitoring of key risks facing the Group and the The Audit Committee ensures adequate principal risk combinations were considered.
implementation of Group-wide risk management assurance is obtained over the risks that are processes and controls.
identified as the Groups principal risks.
The A downside sensitivity analysis, as well as a Audit Committee is also responsible for the consideration of any mitigating actions available The Audit Committee keeps the effectiveness independent review and challenge of the to the Group, were applied to the Groups of the Groups risk management systems under adequacy and effectiveness of the risk three-year cash flows forecasted as part of the review and reports to the Board on the results of management approach.
business planning process and presented to the its review.
The occurrence of any material control Board for discussion, further to review by the issues, serious accidents or major commercial, Executive Committee Audit Committee.
The Board discussed the financial or reputational issues, or the identification The Executive Committee is responsible for process undertaken by management, and also of new significant risks, are reported to the Board the identification, reporting and ongoing reviewed the results of stress testing and or Audit Committee as appropriate.
management of risks and for the stewardship performed to provide an illustration of the of the risk management approach.
The Executive reduction in cash flows that would be required Following changes to the UK Corporate Committee reviews and assesses the key to break the Groups covenants or exhaust all Governance Code in 2014, and changes to our strategic risks to the Group and the outputs available cash, to ensure that they did not strategy and organisation in 2015, we have carried of the assessment are sent to the Divisional adversely impact on the Groups viability.
out a robust assessment of our principal risks and Presidents for inclusion in their local risk uncertainties.
Our revised principal risks are set assessment exercises.
The Directors viability statement is contained out in the table on pages 26 and 27. in the Directors report on page 67.
Divisional Presidents Culture Divisional Presidents are responsible for the The Board is aware that the effectiveness of risk identification, reporting and ongoing management management is dependent on behaviours.
In 2016 of risks in their respective regions.
The outputs of we will launch a refreshed Code of Business these assessment exercises are reviewed and Conduct to provide a common and consistent challenged by the Executive Committee as part framework for responsible business practices.
It will of their assessment of the key strategic risks reinforce the standards we expect our people to facing the Group.
follow in their day-to-day activities, no matter where they work in the world, and tell others that Our risk appetite they can rely on our integrity.
It will be supported We use an assessment of the level of risk and our by our Ethics and Compliance programme, associated risk appetite to ensure the appropriate which aims to ensure compliance with our focus is placed on the correct risks.
KELLER GROUP PLC 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
