Managing risk IDENTIFY, MITIGATE AND MONITOR Oversight of the risk management We assess each risk for likelihood reporting of any exceptions and overdue process including identifying key risks, and impact.
Risks are rated on both an actions.
Significant control weaknesses their impacts and any mitigating controls inherent and residual basis that is, after or failures of sufficient scale and is provided by the Investment Manager, taking into account the effect of any seriousness are escalated to the Board.
the Audit Committee and, ultimately, the mitigating factors and are rated on a red, This review informs necessary revisions Board.
Day-to-day management of those amber and green scale.
We maintain of the Group risk management policy and risks is embedded in everything we do a formal risk register, with appropriate framework and may also guide future and is integral to all of the Investment inputs from the Investment Manager, iterations of the Groups strategy.
Managers transactional, operating and the Administrator and the Non-Executive financial activity.
The risk register is designed Our principal risks are detailed on the to capture key risks, their associated following pages, which also show the Assessment and risk register mitigating factors and an assessment impact on the business prior to mitigation KWE defines risk appetite as the amount of the adequacy of controls in place.
and the likelihood after mitigation as well and sources of risk that we are seeking, as the perceived change in the level of willing to accept or looking to avoid in Review risk compared to last year.
pursuit of our business objectives over The risk register is reviewed and updated a set period of time.
every quarter at the Audit Committee meetings to test for completeness of risk and control capture, effective testing of key control measures, and recording and Principal risks heat map 7 3 6 9 10 5 4 8 1 Risk increased since last year 2 Risk reduced since last year Risk unchanged since last year Low Medium High Likelihood of occurrence after mitigation 32 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Potential impact before mitigation Low Medium High Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Principal risks and uncertainties Macro-economic risks Risk Impact Mitigation Turbulence in stock markets and weak The Board and Investment Manager global and European growth indicators regularly review the economic 1 coupled with a concern that central banks environment to assess whether are unable or unwilling to provide support, any changes in outlook present risks, General economic remain a concern in our current markets as well as opportunities which should conditions of operation the United Kingdom, be taken into account in the execution Ireland, Spain and Italy.
Link to 2015 goals: The Investment Manager has a 1, 3, 4 A slowdown in economic recovery broad investment mandate, which increases the risk of lower than expected gives it flexibility to invest across the rental levels, occupancy deterioration real estate markets in Europe with and asset valuation uncertainty.
limited restrictions across asset class, sector or capital structure, resulting in diversification of risk across the portfolio.
Any deterioration in the occupier market would have a muted shortterm effect on the Groups turnover, due to high occupancy levels 96.0% and long WAULT 7.3 years.
Reduced appetite for real estate lending The Groups borrowings are 2 may adversely impact our ability to diversified between fixed and floating refinance facilities and reduce our debt and benefit from a weighted financing capacity for future investments.
average term to maturity of 5.9 years.
Availability of finance We are committed to maintaining the Groups BBB stable credit rating Link to 2015 goals: through careful management of 2, 4 unencumbered asset ratios.
The Investment Manager maintains strong relationships with our financing partners, credit rating agencies and advisors in the various jurisdictions in which we operate.
The establishment of our 2,000 million EMTN programme during 2015 further diversifies our financing options.
Strategic risks Risk Impact Mitigation Poor execution of our investment The Investment Manager has a strategy could result in a significant strong investment sourcing capability 3 underperformance and reduced and maintains long-standing market profitability.
relationships, to ensure access Failure to implement and poor to future opportunities.
execution of the investment strategy Specific execution risks include, Expert local knowledge, combined among others: with a significant and continued Link to 2015 goals: investment in people and 1, 3, 4 timing of investment and divestment infrastructure, provides an effective decisions base upon which to deliver the incorrect allocation of capital investment strategy.
exposure to any development risk or All investment decisions are subject significant refurbishment programme to risk evaluation, taking into account failure to implement the approved the expected returns and risk business plan appetite.
Thereafter, KPIs and excessive exposure to one particular financial metrics are continuously sector, asset, tenant or regional monitored to track performance and, concentration.
if necessary, adapt business plan to achieve targets.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Managing risk continued Strategic risks continued Risk Impact Mitigation Property development projects inherently At any point, aggregate development carry risks with them.
These include: costs will not exceed 15% of the 4 Groups most recently published NAV, planning risk: the inability to secure thereby reducing the overall potential Development and construction planning consent due to political, impact of development risk.
legislative, regulatory and other risks The Investment Manager has a Link to 2015 goals: inherent in the planning environment strong and experienced construction 1, 3 construction risk: timing delays, and development management reliance on third parties, including team.
They undertake extensive the risk of contractor failure, and consultation, design and technical additional cost overruns work prior to beginning any project, occupier risk: occupiers may be as well as engaging with relevant reluctant to take space upon project authorities at a local and national completion.
level, to ensure development proposals are in line with current and emerging policy.
For each project, we make a judgement about apportioning of construction risk.
Where we retain this risk, we fix costs early in the process, subject to other market factors, with key contractors subject to a formal tender process and ongoing financial covenant review.
Market cycle and likely customer demand are assessed before committing to new developments and pre-lets are secured where appropriate.
Operational risks Risk Impact Mitigation Adverse interest rate or foreign Interest rate risk is mitigated through currency movements may result a combination of fixed rate debt 5 in reduced earnings.
and derivative instruments, such as interest rate caps.
As at 31 December Leverage and Treasury Breach of bank facility or bond 2015 85% of our borrowings were covenants could result in default and fixed or subject to hedging.
Link to 2015 goals: the requirement to repay debt ahead Foreign currency movements are 2 of planned maturities.
offset by a combination of natural hedging through local currency Lack of control over bank accounts borrowing and derivative instruments, and cash movements across multiple such as cross-currency swaps.
As jurisdictions and or failure to monitor at 31 December 2015 83% of Euro the creditworthiness of counterparties assets are hedged in this manner.
could result in sub-optimal returns or We regularly monitor our LTV and financial loss.
associated covenants, both on an actual and forecast.
Our prudent treasury management policy ensures the Group always carries a sufficient level of cash to deal with unforeseen contingencies, as well as ensuring loan documentation includes cure rights for covenant breaches.
The Investment Manager provides a dedicated treasury management team, with cash control and monthly cash sweep mechanisms in place across the Group.
The credit-rating and deposit rates of our banking partners are continuously monitored.
34 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Operational risks continued Risk Impact Mitigation Underlying income, rental growth and The Investment Manager monitors 6 capital performance could be adversely our market letting exposure including affected by weakening occupier demand, vacancies, upcoming expiries and resulting from variations in economic breaks, tenants in receivership or Occupier demand, tenant defaults conditions in our target markets and administration and our weighted and income sustainability corresponding weakening of consumer average unexpired lease term.
work with our tenants to tailor their Link to 2015 goals: space requirements to their business 1, 3 Changing consumer and business needs and their ability to pay for practices including the growth of internet the space they rent.
We engage retailing, flexible working practices and experienced letting agents, with demand for energy efficient buildings, track records and expertise relevant new technologies, new legislation and to the particular asset class.
alternative locations may result in earlier We have an increasingly diversified than anticipated obsolescence of our tenant base and monitor our exposure buildings, if evolving occupier and to individual occupiers or sectors.
regulatory requirements are not met.
At 31 December 2015 no single tenant accounted for more than Failure to monitor rent collection rates 6.7% of the rent roll.
We perform and control arrears could lead to increased appropriate occupier covenant checks bad debt rates and financial loss.
and review these on an ongoing basis.
The Investment Manager regularly liaises with property managers to ensure prompt rent collection and chasing of any arrears.
We rely on the Investment Manager Performance of the Investment 7 for its real estate investment, asset and Manager is reviewed at the Board development management expertise, level and there is an effective working which drives our financial and operational relationship between the Board Dependence on the Investment performance.
Manager The Investment Manager and its The Investment Managers failure to retain, management and advisory team Link to 2015 goals: develop and incentivise key personnel or have significant capital invested in 1, 3 to allocate appropriate time and resources, the Company, which closely aligns may impact business relationships, its interests with those of our reputation and the achievement of the other shareholders.
The Investment Manager is also financially incentivised and aligned, through the potential to earn a performance fee under the terms of the investment management agreement IMA.
Any performance fee due is satisfied in shares of the Company and locked-up for three years.
The Investment Manager and its associates have continued to recruit throughout 2015, providing highly competitive performance-driven remuneration packages to attract and retain senior members of the management and advisory team.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35 Managing risk continued Regulatory and compliance risks Risk Impact Mitigation Non-compliance with multi-jurisdiction The Investment Manager employs regulatory requirements, including but not dedicated senior personnel, with 8 exclusive to AIFMD, UK listing, disclosure relevant expertise, to ensure and transparency rules, and money compliance with enhanced regulatory Regulatory and environmental laundering and financial crime legislation, requirements and develop protocols could adversely affect our financial position to deal with future changes.
Link to 2015 goals: through fines and penalties, and damage Up-to-date and regular training 3 to our reputation and operating status.
is provided to the management and advisory team and the Board.
Increased environmental and health and Systems and procedures are in place safety regulation may lead to higher costs.
across the Group and tested regularly to ensure effectiveness.
As tenants increasingly differentiate Specialist environmental consultants between properties based on sustainability advise the Group on environmental and related environmental factors, and health and safety regulations to occupational demand may reduce if our ensure all operations are compliant.
buildings do not meet future requirements.
Increased taxation or other associated Robust procedures are in place charges, or changes in new interpretations to ensure that the Company and 9 of taxation laws affecting the real estate its subsidiaries are managed and sector and or jurisdictions in which the controlled in their local jurisdictions, Taxation Group operates or holds assets may have with appropriately qualified and a material adverse effect on financial experienced boards.
Link to 2015 goals: conditions, residency status, Group Developments in the taxation 1, 2 performance and results.
environment in the countries that we operate in are monitored both There remains little guidance as to the by experienced Investment Manager application of UK Diverted Profits Tax professionals and our expert advisors.
and uncertainty around the way in which We engage with tax authorities and governments will legislate in coming industry associations, to better years to implement the OECD Action understand future legislation and, Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting.
where possible, mitigate the impact.
The appropriateness and cost-efficiency of the Groups corporate structure is reviewed on a regular basis.
The consequences of Britains potential The Groups real estate portfolio exit from the European Union, a renewed is geographically diversified and 10 push for Scottish independence and other benefits from exposure to a wide unforeseen government actions could range of tenants and low voids.
Political affect the economic and investment It is difficult to predict the impact of climate across Europe, resulting in an event such as Britain leaving the Link to 2015 goals: reduced growth and occupier demand.
We will continue to monitor the 1, 4 potential consequences and will procure appropriate advice, in order to adapt our strategy to mitigate any downside impact and to ensure that we are well placed to take advantage of opportunities that might arise.
36 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Acquired a loan portfolio with Avon UK loan underlying collateral of five fire control centres totalling 114,900 sq ft, leased disposal to the UK Government 100.3m Cambridge, Castle Donington, Sale proceeds Durham, Wakefield and The leases benefited from a strong Wolverhampton covenant, long lease lengths of 15.1 England, UK years, including five yearly rent reviews Acquired 4 June 2014 with fixed 2.5% per annum indexation 14.6% Sold underlying collateral, post year end, to UK infrastructure fund for 100.3 Return on cost on disposal million, forming part of targeted 300 million non-core disposal programme Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37
