Principal risks and uncertainties The nature of the industries and the business On behalf of the Board, the RMAC identifies the risks environment in which the Group operates are that it considers most likely, without effective inherentlyrisky.
Although it is recognised that it mitigation, to have an impact on the Group and its is not possible to eliminate all such risks and strategic priorities.
If emerging risks are identified in uncertainties, the Group has well-established risk between these annual reviews, these are incorporated management and internal control systems to immediately into the risk management process.
has been no change to the Groups principal risks this year: these are set out below, together with a summary of the actions taken to mitigate each risk.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS OLD ICONS NEW ICONS Risk Mitigations Current ranking and movement since 2014 Contract delivery Contracts in progress are controlled and The Group has several hundred live managed through the Groups operating 1st 2014: 2nd contracts at any point in time and the structure and procedures.
This includes risks to which the Group is exposed are regular monthly contract reviews of dependent on the nature of the work, contract-to-date financial performance the location, the duration and the legal against budget as well as comparing form of the contract.
If these risks are end-life forecast against tender.
Project not managed effectively, the Group will risk registers are also reviewed.
In suffer contract losses, delays and addition, our procurement function potential reputational damage.
manages subcontractor and supplier st 1 relationships across contracts.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS Relevant strategic priorities: The monthly reviews are supplemented Achieve top quartile by a quarterly review process which performance andefficiency operates across all divisions of Impact theGroup.
P rovide sector-leading customer experience OLD ICONS NEW ICONS Systems Kier recognises that IT plays a The efficient operation of the Group is fundamental role in supporting the 2nd 2014: 3rd increasingly dependent on the proper business.
AllIT activity is managed by operation, performance, security and Kiers IT department in partnership with development of its IT systems.
The the business and according to agreed Group is maintaining legacy systems service levels.
Significant investments prior to implementing an ERP system.
and programmes are subject to Board nd 2 Ifimplementation is unsuccessful, this review and approval, such as the will impact the Groups efficiency development of the new ERP system andprofitability.
that will standardise the back-office functions.
Kier has contingencies in Relevant strategic priorities: place to deal with cyber security threats.
Achieve top quartile performance andefficiency Impact E nsure we have investment in technology and back-office systems Key: Minor Moderate Major Critical 33 Likelihood Likelihood Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigations Current ranking and movement since 2014 OLD ICONS NEW ICONS Funding Cash flow is forecast regularly to provide The Property and Residential divisions up-to-date and accurate information on 3rd 2014: 4th rely on finance provided by the Group the Groups current cash position and its and external sources.
and Services divisions rely on Group bonding facilities.
Without these, Borrowing facilities have been recently revenue and profit would reduce.
The Group has strong, long-term relationships with Relevant strategic priorities: the providers of its bonding lines and has an in-house team which monitors rd 3 Accelerate growth to be headroom and advises on bond terms a top three player in our and conditions.
chosen markets The Groups Investment Committee Impact isresponsible for approving capital investment and optimising the allocationof capital.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS People The Group monitors staff turnover The Group depends on members of its closely.
Pay and conditions are reviewed 4th 2014: 1st senior management team and on a regularly against the prevailing market to flexible, highly skilled, diverse and ensure that we remain competitive.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS well-motivated workforce.
As core markets emerge from recession, Succession planning and staff employee turnover has increased.
development are managed at all Ifthe Group does not succeed in levels in the Group.
The Group has th 4 attracting, developing and retaining aperformance review process which skilled people, as well as understanding isdesigned to assist in the career and embracing the diversity of those development of its staff and also to people, it will not be able to grow the identify potential successors to roles business as anticipated.
within the Group including at senior management level.
Relevant strategic priorities: Impact Accelerate growth to be a top three player in our chosen markets Attract and retain highly motivated, high-performing teams Key: Minor Moderate Major Critical 34 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Likelihood Likelihood Risk Mitigations Current ranking and movement OLD ICONS NEW ICONS since 2014 The market The Group has a structure to manage The Groups strategy depends on the and mitigate risk with the following key 5th 2014: 8th planned level of expenditure within components: both the public and private sectors.
Smaller markets will likely result in A wide geographic regional network lower revenue for the Group.
of offices across the UK well integrated into local communities, Relevant strategic priorities: the client base and the supply chain: A high number of framework th 5 Accelerate growth to be agreements and partnerships with a top three player in our Government, local authorities and chosen markets theprivate sector: Kiers integrated offering, with Property typically peaking earlier in Impact the economic cycle and Services later, provides a natural mitigation against recession: and A developing capability to predict market changes, in particular future Government priorities.
The Group also carries out monthly and quarterly reviews of its workload and forecasts its overhead levels as a percentage of future work in order to maintain a steady ratio of overhead costs to revenue.
Fuel and other OLD ICONS NEW ICONS materials that are in high demand, OLD ICONS NEW ICONS suchas steel, are hedged or forwardpurchased when deemed necessary.
Tender pricing The Groups appetite for very long-term, The work for which Kier tenders is large, competitively tendered 6th 2014: 7th often complex and long-term with construction contracts is limited.
Tender isinfluenced by the desire to maintain assumptions may be inaccurate or the quality of workload and to manage risk.
risks associated with the tender may Tenders for contracts are subject to a not be fully understood.
If risks are governance structure which includes under-priced, contract losses and Group-wide standing orders and a potential reputational damage will gateway process, with approval by the result.
If risks are over-priced, order chief executive finance director, other th 6 books will suffer.
executive directors or divisional directors, depending upon the value and Relevant strategic priorities: nature of the contract.
Tenders with defined specific risks are reviewed by Achieve top quartile the Groups Risk Review Committee.
Impact performance andefficiency Provide sector-leading customer experience Key: Minor Moderate Major Critical 35 Likelihood Likelihood Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigations Current ranking and movement OLD ICONS NEW ICONS since 2014 Compliance The Group monitors and responds to The Group is subject to a number of legal and regulatory developments in the 7th 2014: 9th complex, demanding and evolving legal areas in which it operates.
It conducts and regulatory requirements.
A breach risk assessments to assess material of laws or regulations could lead to legal changes and the policies and proceedings, investigations or disputes procedures it needs to manage them.
resulting in a disruption of business, ranging from additional costs incurred The Groups policies require that all of OLD ICONS NEW ICONS on a project or in the overall its subsidiaries, employees, suppliers management of the breach, to civil and subcontractors comply with and or criminal penalties as well as applicable laws and regulations.
Group updates its policies to ensure th 7 that it complies with changes in Relevant strategic priorities: legislation and regulation.
Certain mandatory training is provided on Impact Operate a safe and relevant areas of law and regulation.
sustainable business The Group operates and encourages the use of a whistle-blowing process that P rovide sector-leading enables employees to raise concerns.
customer experience OLD ICONS NEW ICONS Contracts entered into by the Group are subjected to a review process to ensure that contractual risks are identified and, wherever possible, mitigated appropriately.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS Change All change programmes are tightly Shortly before year end, the Group controlled by both a programme steering 8th 2014: 10th acquired Mouchel and is currently group and by regular review by theRMAC.
undertaking its integration through a The integration programme, inparticular, tightly governed change programme.
provides a weekly update report that Inaddition, the ERP programme has provides details on progress, risks, issues completed its planning and development and executive decisions that are required.
phase and is expected shortly to move into implementation and roll-out.
Unless carefully managed, these programmes th 8 risk diverting management attention away from core operations, causing a loss of focus on key market opportunities and control of the existing business.
Impact Relevant strategic priorities: Achieve top quartile performance andefficiency Ensure we have investment in technology and backoffice systems Key: Minor Moderate Major Critical 36 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Likelihood Likelihood Risk Mitigations Current ranking and movement since 2014 Safety Detailed policies and procedures The Groups activities are inherently existtominimise such risks and are 9th 2014: 5th complex and potentially hazardous and subject to review and monitoring by the require the continuous monitoring and operating businesses and Group.
All management of health, safety and operating businesses have a director environmental risks.
who is responsible for co-ordinating health & safety activities.
Failure to manage these risks OLD ICONS NEW ICONS couldresult in injury to employees, Compliance with the SHE management subcontractors or members of the system is monitored through a number OLD ICONS NEW ICONS public or damage to the environment.
of tools including audit, leadership tours th 9 This could also expose the Group to and inspections.
significant potential liability and reputational damage.
The Groups behavioural change programme is designed to change Impact Relevant strategic priorities: behaviours at the supervisor and workforce level while the Visible Operate a safe and Leadership Programme is encouraging sustainable business appropriate engagement bythe business leadership with theworkforce.
Accelerate growth to be The SHE audit programme continues a top three player in our tobeused as a key method in identifying chosen markets common areas of non-compliance acrossthe business, helping us drive improvements proactively rather thanreactively.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS OLD ICONS NEW ICONS Reputation With the increasing profile of the Group in The Groups ability to tender for new both business to business and business 10th 2014: 6th business and its relationship with to customer markets, the ability to monitor customers, supply chain partners, its and measure the Groups reputation OLD ICONS NEW ICONS employees and other stakeholders through client and customer feedback is depends in large part on the good key.
Customer satisfaction monitoring has OLD ICONS NEW ICONS reputation that it has established and been implemented across the Group and, how it is perceived by others.
The with the development of a digital strategy Groups growth targets are unlikely to including social media, we are better be achieved if this risk is not managed.
informed of issues that may arise.
th Relevant strategic priorities: 10 Operate a safe and sustainable business Impact Accelerate growth to be a top three player in our chosen markets P rovide sector-leading customer experience Attract and retain highly motivated, high-performing teams Key: Minor Moderate Major Critical 37 Likelihood Likelihood Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168
