Risks Given the scale of our businesses, the Board of Directors recognises that the nature, scope and potential impact of our key business and strategic risks are subject to constant change.
As such, the Board has implemented the necessary framework to ensure that it has sufficient visibility of the Groups key risks and the opportunity to regularly review the adequacy and effectiveness of our mitigating controls and strategies.
The Board has considered the risks following the review of the business and strategy by the Leadership team and the risks have been amended to reflect the future operations of the business.
During the year the Board has also considered the nature and level of risk that we are prepared to accept in order to deliver our business strategies and has reviewed and approved our internal statement of risk appetite.
This describes both the current and desired levels of acceptable risk, supported by high level qualitative risk statements, ensuring that risks are proactively managed to the level desired by the Board.
The Corporate governance report on page 33 describes the systems and processes through which the directors manage and mitigate risks.
The Board considers that the principal risks to achieving its strategic aims are set out below.
Group risks Mitigation Organising Kingfisher as a more We are organising the business differently, becoming a more unified company rather than unified company with a common a collection of individual businesses.
The new leadership team structure reflects the new customer offer rather than a organisational design.
collection of individual businesses As with all initiatives undertaken, the leadership team will monitor the programme and fails to deliver the anticipated benefits realisation on a regular basis, ensuring sufficient resources are available to deliver benefits.
We will continue to ensure that changes are only implemented once we have completed an appropriate level of planning and testing, relative to the risk.
In addition, we ensure that the assumptions and insight, that support the introduction of new products or services, will deliver the benefits to both our customers and our shareholders prior to their introduction.
Our investments fail to deliver value We continually review and assess opportunities for expansion, in terms of both online to the Group, especially our and bricks and mortar retail, across all of the territories and regions in which we operate.
investment in the IT strategy We are investing in our financial and operational systems to develop a company-wide IT programme.
The IT strategy project is supported and monitored via the programme team and the programme office.
Each business is represented on the project team to ensure the appropriate solution is delivered to the company.
Regular updates are given to the leadership team and all decisions are approved in line with our investment methodology.
Country and market entry strategies are based on the application of a proven operating model and supported by the part of the business with the most relevant experience, capabilities and capacity to successfully lead a market entry strategy.
We also ensure that any proposed acquisition or market entry strategy is subject to an appropriate level of challenge and due diligence from both the leadership team and specialist Group functions, which may include the Tax, Treasury, Legal, Group Finance and Group Risk and Internal Audit functions.
This due diligence is also supported by external and independent advisors when necessary.
Following an acquisition, integration plans are prepared and monitored at divisional and Group levels.
Existing management teams are supplemented with Group resources to monitor and assist with the integration.
All investments are evaluated and monitored via our post investment review methodology in place across the business.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 26 Strategic Report Group risks Mitigation We fail to deliver the benefits of a We aim to offer customers a product range which is differentiated from that of our more unified and unique offer and competitors through innovation and exclusivity.
To support this, we continue to evolve standardised activities and and innovate across our product ranges, formats and customer offer.
x Project teams to identify the optimum opportunities for presenting the same products in our stores across Europe, e. g. a unified bathroom and garden offer.
x Performance of the ranges and brands is tracked and strategies updated accordingly.
x A strong sourcing network which is focused on securing Group buying opportunities.
x Initiatives to take the best practice and best product from across the Group.
We fail to create enough innovation We view innovation as an area of future growth.
The leadership team is responsible for opportunities.
The leadership team reviews the opportunities identified and works within a risk weighted project appraisal framework.
We fail to identify and maximise Ensuring we operate efficiently and reduce our costs is a key area of focus for us.
As part of potential cost reductions and our five year planning process each business reviews its cost base and identifies potential efficiency savings.
savings which are then monitored as part of the budgeting and forecasting processes.
As part of our investment in IT we have identified a number of benefits and benchmarked these externally.
In future, the cost base will be reviewed across the Group to identify further potential savings.
Reviews of our processes and infrastructure will be carried out to develop a unified approach and realise further costs and efficiency savings.
Our investments in new store We continue to invest in our Omnichannel strategy.
We continue to invest in Omnichannel formats, customer markets and technologies and take learnings from our businesses which have well developed models, customer proposition strategies e. g. Screwfix.
We are developing a platform which will be rolled out across the Group to offer fail to stimulate increased consumer alternative channels for customers.
Our investment in the IT strategy programme will provide spend and do not deliver the systems and capabilities to respond to the changing ways that customers shop.
desired sales growth in our We continue to invest in our existing store portfolio whilst seeking to minimise its cost base mature markets.
Where there are opportunities to expand and innovate we will do so using a combination of existing and new formats.
We will pursue low risk market entry and new flexible store format strategies based on the utilisation of current skills and capabilities available within the Group.
com 27 Risks continued Group risks Mitigation Uncertainty surrounding the The spread of countries in which the Company operates aids in the mitigation of this risk, resilience of the global economy however, with continuing market volatility and uncertainty across all of the economies and increased geo-political volatility, in which we operate, particularly within the Eurozone, we continue to monitor potential particularly in Russia, may impact exposures and risks and provide effective risk management solutions to both our both consumer confidence and the businesses and our strategic suppliers.
These include: long-term sustainability and x The provision of supply chain finance programmes to support strategic suppliers.
capabilities of our supplier base.
x Support from a strong portfolio of international banking partners that provide flexibility, access to funding and reliable local retail cash and card payment processing services.
x Diversification of cash holdings across a number of financial institutions with the strongest short-term credit rating.
x An appropriate and prudent mix of hedging policies, cash deposits and debt financing to minimise the impact of foreign exchange currency volatility on the Group.
x The geo-political drivers for uncertainty and volatility in the Eurozone are being monitored continuously, such that if risks escalate, measures are implemented to ensure there is sufficient and co-ordinated contingency planning.
x A cross-functional steering group established to monitor developments in Russia, consider business continuity action and undertake scenario planning.
We do not make the necessary Across our businesses we are developing our talent and building our leadership capacity.
investment in our people to ensure Specific examples of this include: that we have the appropriate x The Chief People Officer will join the leadership team to prioritise the build of capabilities, capacity, skills and experience.
effective KPIs and relevant reward structures.
We have begun to align reward structures across the Group.
x Focused development activities for our store-based colleagues and an increased focus on how we support and recognise the role of our customer advisors across the organisation.
x We are creating a strong pipeline of developing talent through structured programmes including graduate and high potential schemes e. g. LEAD programme for the development of senior leaders.
x Our commitment to sustainability remains one of Kingfishers key values and across the We fail to deliver our sustainability organisation we continue to ensure that we engage and take advice from our expert targets due to not integrating our partners BioRegional and Forum for the Future.
sustainability plan into the day to day operations of the business.
x As part of our business planning process, we set and annually review sustainability plans for each business.
x Monthly Board reports monitor the progress of our largest operating companies in achieving their sustainability targets.
x Data is reported annually to the Group and signed off by the local Boards.
x Within each business, responsibility has been assigned to a team or individual for the delivery of the sustainability targets.
Meetings of the sustainability teams are held twice a year to exchange best practice and progress common initiatives.
x Our Net Positive Advisory Council provides an external review of our processes and provides technical support and advice.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 28 Strategic Report Risk Mitigation A lack of perceived price Significant investment in pricing to reinforce and communicate our value credentials.
competitiveness, particularly when This is supported by: compared to more discount based x The use of improved customer insight and analytical tools to optimise product ranging or online competitors, would affect and pricing strategies.
our ability to maintain or grow market share.
x More targeted use of online and mass media tools to communicate and reinforce price perception for example, price comparison websites, such as kitchen-compare.
We fail to maintain a safe With 79,000 employees and millions of customers visiting our stores each week, robust environment for our customers health and safety systems are a priority.
The Board is committed to creating and sustaining and store colleagues which results a safe environment for both our staff and customers and regularly reviews and challenges in a major incident or fatality that Health & Safety performance, standards and targets across our businesses.
is directly attributable to a failure in As regulatory requirements vary from country to country, each operating company is our Health & Safety management required to designate a director with specific responsibility for health and safety.
is then responsible for ensuring that a written health and safety policy is communicated and that appropriate health and safety arrangements are in place to protect our employees and customers and that we comply with local regulatory requirements.
The Group Health and Safety Committee sets the policy and standards for the Group.
Compliance is monitored across our businesses through a programme of self-certification and Health & Safety audits, with issues reported through local Audit Committees and escalated to the Group Executive, Group Audit Committee or Board where necessary.
Kingfishers reputation and brand Both employees and suppliers working for or with Kingfisher must conduct themselves are affected by a major according to our minimum standards of ethics and behaviours as defined by our Code of environmental or ethical failure, Conduct.
Responsibility for compliance with our Code of Conduct rests with each Group a significant corporate fraud operating company Chief Executive and appropriate resources are available to our or material non-compliance businesses to ensure that both staff and suppliers are aware of, and comply with, the code with legislative or regulatory and our businesses can manage the legislative or regulatory challenges presented by their requirements resulting in punitive respective jurisdictions.
