Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risks and Risk Management Our processes and systems help to ensure that risk management is continually embedded and understood in the operations of the business.
Jonathan Moore Corporate Risk Director INTERNAL CONTROL PRIORITISING OUR RISKS The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal The principal risks from the Corporate Risk Register are plotted control and risk management and reviewing their effectiveness.
on the risk heat map opposite and are explained in more detail There is an ongoing monitoring and review process of the risks on pages 22 to 23. facilitated by the Corporate Risk Director.
Management are MANAGING RISK WITHIN THE BUSINESS responsible for monitoring and reporting on the effectiveness of Day-to-day responsibility for operational risks, at the level of the controls.
Reporting is sufficient for the Board to understand the pub or brewery, rests with the pub managers and Head its risk appetite and the strength of the control environment in Brewers.
The controls operated at each site are part of wider mitigating risk to an acceptable level.
management systems designed to reduce internal risks, The Executive Directors are responsible for the implementation including food hygiene, health and safety, business continuity of the risk management and internal control system.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
SUPPORTING COMMITTEES By their nature, such a system provides only a reasonable and The Corporate Risk Director chairs three committees which not absolute defence against material errors, losses, fraud or form an essential role in risk management.
The committees breaches of the law.
are attended by a range of representatives from the business The key features of the risk management and internal control to ensure that the focus of attention remains relevant system are: to operations.
Compliance Committee A clearly dened management structure operating A register of legislation appertaining to Marstons activities within a framework of policies and procedures covering is maintained and conrmation is given to management that authority levels, responsibilities and accountabilities operations are compliant.
Any breaches, or risk of breach are detailed opposite.
reported to the Board by the Committee.
The Committee also A detailed formal budgeting process for all Group activities, considers any emerging areas of legislation or any changes in with the annual Group budget and projections for future years operations which may impact upon compliance.
being formally approved by the Board.
Business Continuity Committee Established procedures for planning, approving and Marstons operates a business continuity management monitoring capital expenditure and major projects.
system to ensure that all contingency plans are regularly reviewed, remain appropriate and are sufciently understood.
Board approval is needed for all major investment, The Committee reviews the management system, the status of divestment and strategic plans and programmes.
the contingency plans and the resolution of any incidents that At each meeting the Board reviews financial and nonfrom time to time may occur.
financial progress towards the Groups goals.
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee The internal audit strategy and compliance testing takes into The Committee oversees the CSR targets of the Group and account the key business risks and provides assurance to the reports to the Board annually on the activities adopted to Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the management achieve these targets.
The Committee is also responsible for systems mitigating them to an acceptable level.
the external reporting of these activities within our Corporate Responsibility Report and under the Responsibility Deal.
20 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information marstons risk management framework board audit committee INTERNAL AUDITING CORPOR ATE RISK DIRECTOR COMPLIANCE TESTING Risks and controls subject to internal auditing and compliance testing ENTERPRISE-WIDE RISK MANAGEMENT Regular risk assessments, corporate risk register, risk ownership, mitigating controls identied and reviewed BUSINESS CONTINUIT Y & HEALTH & SAFETY MANAGEMENT SECURITY MANAGEMENT corporate social business continuity compliance responsibility committee committee committee BUSINESS CONTINUITY SYSTEMS GROUP H&S MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SITE SECURIT Y Maintenance of crisis plans, business Group auditing, policies, incident repor ting, Risk assessment, system evaluation, impact analysis, scenario testing, escalation of risks, remedial actions, new technology emergency messaging accident investigation Breweries: day-to-day responsibility for Breweries: day-to-day responsibility rests with Pubs: operational responsibility rests businesscontinuity and security rests with the Head Brewer, overseen by individual site with thepub managers, overseen by the theHead Brewer Health & Safety Committees Health&Safety Committee RISK TRANSFER Insurance policies insurance captive company selfinsurance levels claims risk likelihood, control and impact viability statement No The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation control that the Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next five years.
A period of five years has been chosen as this is the timeframe currently adopted by the Board as its strategic and financial planning horizon.
This assessment of viability has been made with reference to the Groups current position and future 4 prospects, its strategy, the market outlook and its principal risks 2 and management thereof, as set out in the Strategic Report.
The strategy and risks to achieving the Groups five-year plan 5 1 are reviewed by the Directors at their annual Strategy Day and again when the budget for the following year is considered.
The five-year plan considers the Groups earnings growth 6 3 High potential, its cash ows, nancing options and key financial level of ratios.
The plan takes into account the economic outlook and control principal risks in arriving at its key assumptions on expected Low likelihood High likelihood turnover and cost pressures across the pub estate and beer Low priority business.
It also takes account of estate development through innovation, investment and .
Medium priority impact of the risk High priority The Risk number corresponds to the Principal Risks overleaf.
