Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The following risks are, in the opinion of the Board, the principal risks which affect Marstons.
It is not intended to be a complete analysis of all risks and may change over time.
Strategic Risk The Potential pillars context risk impact affected Mitigation Economic Economic A fall in Value for money, competitive proposition.
consumer The basic cost of living Customer choice, flexible pricing options and a 1 confidence could could rise at a faster range of pub brands and formats.
impact upon our rate than income, which 3 High standards of service and quality.
sales and our would impact upon the investment plans.
Eating-out remains resilient to difficult spending capacity of economic conditions.
The UK economy continues to grow and there is less uncertainty in the short term.
Unemployment is falling, oil and commodity prices have also fallen, all of which helps Movement our customers.
Continuing cuts in public expenditure and the probability of an increase in interest rates next year may impact upon consumer confidence.
Regulatory Changes in Increased Maintain excellent levels of compliance through 2 regulation regulation affecting training and monitoring.
Marstons operates 2 impacting Marstons directly, across heavily Robust health and safety management systems.
upon the cost or our suppliers, regulated areas Active consultation with Government, trade of business, could increase the alcohol licensing, food bodies and the BBPA.
or obstructing cost of compliance.
hygiene, sale of alcohol, growth.
Anticipate legislative changes and structure transport, property operations accordingly to minimise impact development and wherepossible.
The Small Business and Enterprise Act 2015 stipulates a requirement for a Statutory Code for pub companies to adopt, and an Independent Adjudicator to regulate the relationship Movement they have with their tenants.
In mitigation of this risk Marstons already operates a Code of Practice, and handles its lease and tenancy agreements in a fair and transparent manner.
Additionally Parliament has introduced a market rent option for tenanted and leased pubs which would have the effect of providing licensees with free-of-tie agreements.
In recent years Marstons has taken steps which minimise the impact of this change, including the introduction of franchise-style agreements and the disposal of weaker pubs.
We continue to keep this under review pending clarification of the details of the legislation.
The Government has announced a new National Living Wage of 7.20 an hour for those aged 25 years or over currently 6.50 from April 2016.
This will rise to over 9 an hour by 2020.
Increases in the National Minimum Wage have been anticipated by Marstons and have been incorporated into our forecasted results.
Investment plans Investment Reduced return In-house property team with many years of 1 plans do on investment.
Increased competition 3 notmeet Investment in for development sites Tracking of new site availability.
new-build pub for new-build pubWell managed pipeline of sites into the future.
restaurants and restaurants and lodges.
Flexible investment model between developing pub-restaurants or lodges.
Competition for new-build sites has been strong and this is likely to continue, however Movement no shortage of opportunities is envisaged.
Marstons has a strong pipeline of sites in development and in recent years has expanded its new-build pub-restaurants into Scotland.
22 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information A reminder of OUR FIVE STRATEGIC PILLARS Operating a high quality pub estate 1 Operating a range of pub brands and formats 2 Offering value for money, great food and drink, 3 andcategory innovation Leadership in the UK beer market 4 Our people Marstons The Place to Be 5 Strategic Risk The Potential pillars context risk impact affected Mitigation Anti-virus and firewall protection.
Reduction in the 1 Loss, theft or effectiveness Access control, password protection and IT Marstons has a heavy 4 corruption of of operations, policy adherence.
Denial of business Network controls and monitoring.
interruption and Penetration testing and remediation.
efficiently, process loss of profit.
Internal auditing and independent review of transactions and report Regulatory fine cyber protection.
5 as a result of the Backup procedures.
Data recovery plans and rehearsals.
Global cyber risk threats have increased in recent years.
Theft of personal data is more common.
There is an expectation that businesses must manage cyber risk as a key business risk.
Movement Marstons has conducted penetration testing on its network for many years now.
Speciccyber risk audits are conducted on the protection of personal data by a team independent from our IT department.
Our staff and licensees Failure to attract Financial targets Training and induction programmes.
5 or retain the and strategic Increased demand for Staff appraisals and development 5 bestpeople.
objectives are high calibre people.
Marstons operates Delivery on action points identified by our staff.
in a very competitive Redevelopment of our head office to provide environment: as a result a modern, vibrant environment for staff to its strategic objectives workin.
have a heavy reliance Flexible agreements with our tenants and upon the quality of franchisees.
The sustained growth in our business has allowed for improvements in training programmes, and given more opportunity for staff to progress.
Movement The opening of our newly refurbished head ofce early in 2016 will provide an exciting and engaging environment that will encourage the creativity of staff and interaction betweenteams.
Financial covenants Incorrect Loss of investor Detailed management accounts, budgets and 1 and accounting controls reporting of confidence and forecasts.
reputational The Groups financial Constant monitoring of financial ratios.
Potential systems have to handle 3 Internal audit programme.
loss as a result of a large number of Breach of fraud.
Breach of Annual external audit.
financial covenant, resulting Extensive segregation of duties.
Accurate reporting 4 covenants with in additional of financial results Access controls over the financial systems our lenders.
financial operating is key to running the accurately aligned with responsibilities.
business effectively Appropriate levels of authority.
and critically important for compliance with financial covenants.
There are strong controls mitigating this risk to a low level.
There has been no change Movement in the risk since last year.
