23 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 OUR PERFORMANCE R RISK MANAGEMENT We believe that eff ective risk management is critical to the achievement of our strategic objectives and the long-term sustainable growth of our business.
APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT same time maintaining a simple and PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES practical approach.
This year we have The Board has overall accountability for As with any business, we face risks and placed signi cant focus on developing ensuring that risk is eff ectively managed uncertainties on a daily basis.
It is the our approach to risk appetite.
across the Group and, on behalf of the eff ective management of these that places Board, the Audit Committee reviews the us in a better position to be able to achieve The objective of our risk management eff ectiveness of the Group Risk Process.
our strategic objectives and to embrace approach is to identify and assess all Each business area is responsible for opportunities as they arise.
signi cant risks to the achievement of identifying, assessing and managing our strategic objectives.
Risk appetite is Overleaf are details of our principal risks and the risks in their respective area.
an important consideration in strategic uncertainties and the mitigating activities in decisions made by the Board.
It is an Risks are identi ed and assessed by all place to address them.
It is recognised that expression of the types and amount of risk business areas half-yearly and are measured the Group is exposed to risks wider than we are willing to take or accept to achieve against a fide ned set of criteria, considering those listed.
However, we have disclosed our plan and should support the fide nition likelihood of occurrence and potential those we believe are likely to have the of mitigating activities required to impact to the Group.
The Group Risk greatest impact on our business at this manage risk likelihood and impact to function facilitates a risk identi cation and moment in time and those that have been within acceptable levels.
By fide ning our assessment exercise with the Executive the subject of debate at recent Board or risk appetite we aim to support consistent, Board members.
This information is Audit Committee meetings.
risk-informed decision-making across combined to form a consolidated view of To achieve a holistic view of the risks facing the Group.
The top risks based on likelihood and our business, both now and in the future, impact form our Group Risk Pro le, which is This year we have taken steps to strengthen weconsider those that are: reported to the Executive Board for review our approach to risk appetite, starting with External to our business: and challenge, ahead of final review and the fide nition of draft, Group-level risk approval by the Group Board.
The purpose of these Core to our day-to-day operation: is to articulate the Boards desired riskTo ensure that our risk process drives Related to business change activity: and taking approach to the achievement of our continuous improvement across the strategic objectives, in the context of Those that could emerge in the future.
business, the Executive Board monitors managing our principal risks.
During the the ongoing status and progress of key The risk radar below maps our principal 2015 16 financial year we will further develop action plans against each risk quarterly.
This tool is our approach to risk appetite, re ning these also used to facilitate wider Executive and statements and integrating them with our KEY AREAS OF FOCUS Board level discussions on risk.
For We continue to drive improvements to our more information on this, please see p45.
risk management process and the quality of risk information generated, whilst at the RISK LIKELIHOOD AND IMPACT RISK RADAR Identi cation CORE EMERGING EXTERNAL Risks highlighted EXTERNAL AREAS and documented G G RISK in a centrally G managed Risk 3 Register 10 N 5 STABLE KNOWN CHANGING NEW G G Assessment Risks assessed 1 2 6 in terms of 12 likelihood of N 11 7 occurrence and N N 4 9 potential impact 8 on the Group CORE BUSINESS INTERNAL OPERATIONS CHANGE Mitigation N KEY Required actions 1 GM customer 6 IT change 10 Staff retention are agreed and engagement 7 M&S.
com business 11 Programme and assigned, with MINOR MODERATE MAJOR CRITICAL 2 Food safety and integrity resilience workstream management target deadlines 3 Food competition 8 International expansion 12 GM supply chain and and quarterly IMPACT logistics network status updates GM margin Our people 4 9 5 Information security GROSS RISK LEVEL BEFORE MITIGATION NET RISK LEVEL AFTER MITIGATION G N LIKELIHOOD UNLIKELY POSSIBLE LIKELY ALMOST CERTAIN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 24 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATING ACTIVITIES BRAND AND REPUTATION Our updated values of Inspiration, Innovation, Integrity and In Touch in uence how we do business and our reputation for being one of the UKs most trusted brands As we strengthen our brand Continual updates to the GM CUSTOMER Regular engagement with recognition and reassert our M&S.
com website to enhance customers through data ENGAGEMENT 1 GM quality and style credentials, the online customer shopping gathered by our Customer Continued loss of it is important that we understand experience.
Insight Unit and focus groups.
and address our customers needs in engagement with Ongoing improvements to store Updated brand positioning and an increasingly competitive market.
environment, addressing speci c our customer marketing approach with greater customer feedback.
Targeted marketing and Continued focus on product promotional activity using quality and style, including customer loyalty data.
adherence to our Clothing Quality Charter.
As a leading retailer of ne quality Dedicated team responsible for Food Standards Agency FOOD SAFETY fresh food, it is of paramount ensuring that all products are endorsed approach to reducing AND INTEGRITY 2 importance that we manage the safe for consumption through campylobacter.
A food safety or safety and integrity of our products rigorous controls and processes.
Updated supplier and depot and supply chain, especially as we integrity related Continuous focus on product auditing programme.
grow our global food business quality.
incident occurs or is not and given the heightened risk eff ectively managed Proactive horizon scanning, of fraudulent behaviour in the including focus on fraud and supply chain.
With the current upheaval amongst FOOD Signi cant focus on product Regular review of price the supermarkets and the innovation to retain point positioning.
COMPETITION 3 polarisation between value and of diff erence and drive Simply Food expansion to provide Loss of market share, premium, it is important that we customer loyalty.
continue to provide a point of due to changes in the Continued focus on product diff erence through product quality, competitive landscape availability to customers.
value and innovation, as well as or customer behaviours convenience.
DAY-TO-DAY OPERATION We are a customer-centric business and strive to deliver an effi cient and eff ective operation As we drive increased GM margin Margin targets fide ned and Strong sourcing capability GM MARGIN through improved design and regularly monitored.
led by experienced overseas 4 Failure to improve sourcing capability it is essential that Sourcing Directors.
Robust and established supplier margin whilst we maintain our ethical sourcing ethical audit programme in place.
End-to-end review of GM design, standards and continue to drive maintaining our quality trading and sourcing underway.
and Plan A standards The business is subject to external Extensive security controls Tight control of sensitive data INFORMATION threats from hackers or viruses, or in place including policies, through limited and monitored SECURITY 5 sensitive data is accessed without procedures and security access and the roll-out of We experience a major authorisation.
breach in cyber, system or information security Established team dedicated to managing security requirements for M&S.
As we undertake a number of Clear decision-making process Proactive management of crossIT CHANGE signi cant change programmes, for system changes, including programme dependencies 6 Unforeseen impact the rate and scale of IT change is established Change Approval including release management of IT changes to new substantial, with potential to Board process and change approach to Group system signi cantly impact our complex freezes during critical changes together.
and existing systems and interdependent systems.
disrupts business Robust disaster recovery plans in place for critical operations business applications.
25 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FIND OUT MORE Read our Audit Committee Report on p46-50 Read Risk in action on p44 RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATING ACTIVITIES SELLING CHANNELS We have ambitious plans for our UK, International and multi-channel businesses as part of our evolution to be a truly international, multi-channel retailer As our online traffi c grows and our M&S.
com command Business continuity plans, network infrastructure and operating centre operates 24 7 to incident reporting and RESILIENCE 7 model evolve, it is increasingly monitor website availability management procedures are A major failure of our important to ensure that the and performance.
well established and tested, with M&S.
com business and key regular monitoring including Social media monitored to dependencies are resilient.
quarterly Business Continuity at our Castle Donington observe and respond to trends Committee meetings.
distribution centre impacts our ability to trade online INTERNATIONAL As we continue to increase our Geographic spread mitigates Property Board approval of new international presence and build against localised geo-political store openings and monitoring EXPANSION 8 a leadership position in priority or economic risks.
Our plan to grow our markets it is crucial that we maximise Local market knowledge International representation in performance in both legacy and International business provided by franchise and key Group initiatives.
new markets, supported by robust joint venture partnerships.
is limited by global systems and supply chain capability.
Performance monitoring by volatility, the start up region, country and store, It is also critical that we have systems pro tability of new including focus on like-for-like in place to ensure that we can respond markets or substandard performance and action planning proactively to any geo-political issues, infrastructure for poor performing stores.
and to local regulatory matters, including taxation.
PEOPLE AND CHANGE Our people are fundamental to the long-term success and growth of this business As our evolution to a truly Robust employee engagement Fast decision-making enabled OUR PEOPLE international, multi-channel retailer process.
through the removal of 9 Our organisational continues, it is essential that our structural complexity.
Alignment of employee culture and structure organisational set-up allows us to development programmes Employee reward based on respond to market changes and limit our ability to with business strategy.
performance in line with our competition with pace.
adapt to market values of Inspiration, Innovation, Integrity and In Touch.
changes with pace From our expert food technologists Succession planning in place STAFF RETENTION and product developers to our for key roles and senior leaders.
10 Failure to retain key recently strengthened GM design Performance management people due to off ers teams, our people are in demand process and bonus scheme from our competitors.
from competitors or structure focused on rewarding loss of con dence in high performers.
the business PROGRAMME AND We continue to undertake a number Our Strategic Programme Offi ce Status and bene ts realisation of major programmes to underpin the provides central governance updates provided to the WORKSTREAM 11 achievement of our plan: the delivery for major Group initiatives, Executive Board.
MANAGEMENT of forecasted bene ts is critical to this.
including cross-programme Proactive management of inter-dependencies, supported Bene ts from our major programme portfolio and by robust project management associated bene ts in the context business programmes discipline.
of current market conditions and and workstreams are the Groups three-year plan.
not realised As we stabilise and leverage the GM SUPPLY CHAIN Ongoing simpli cation and Robust programme capability of our Castle Donington stabilisation of Castle Donington governance in place, including AND LOGISTICS 12 distribution centre, we must continue distribution centre ahead of interdependencies with other NETWORK to focus on the implementation of peak 2015.
We fail to evolve our our single-tier network, to provide a Phased approach to distribution Management team strengthened modern and exible infrastructure supply chain and centre transformation.
through external hires into for our business.
logistics network to Ongoing review of progress maximise availability against agreed operational to customers and and financial objectives.
speed up delivery times Notes: The Group Risk Pro le will evolve as mitigating activities reduce net risk over time, or as new risks emerge.
Two new risks have been added to the Group Risk Pro le since the prior year Food competition and Staff retention : the remaining risks have essentially remained the same.
No risks have been removed from the Group Risk Pro le since the prior year.
The risks listed do not comprise all those associated with Marks & Spencer and the numerical referencing does not denote an order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse eff ect on the business.
Further information on the financial risks we face and how they are managed is provided on pages 113 to 116.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 26 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT OPERATING PERFORMANCE FOOD Our mission in Food is simple: inspire our customers with high quality, great value products in stores full of new ideas.
STEVE ROWE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, FOOD 1 UK FOOD REVENUE MARKET SHARE NUMBER OF NEW LINES 5.2bn 4.1% 1,700 3.4% 0.1% PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW INSPIRATION and more locally, meaning that our convenience format is one of our key This year we introduced 1,700 new products, Following another very strong year in Food, diff erentiating factors.
In terms of our we have now seen 22 consecutive quarters equivalent to over a quarter of our entire in-store environments, we updated the look of like-for-like sales growth.
Our teams of technologists, chefs and feel of our stores, introduced chefs and been to become more relevant, more often and nutritionists searched the world for increased the roll-out of Deli counters, interesting new food ideas.
Thanks to the for our customers.
We have achieved this adding theatre to the shopping trip.
through our constantly evolving ranges, our longstanding bond of trust between us quality and our innovation.
We continue to and our customers, we can be counted on R SUPPLY CHAIN AND INTEGRITY excite people with our products, whether to source the most exotic and authentic avours.
Popular new lines included our We continued our programme to rebase our they are doing the weekly shop, buying for tonight or picking up a treat for a loved one.
Taste range of cuisine from Thailand, Mexico, supply chain.
By streamlining our processes, At M&S we have a Food business that is Vietnam and Japan.
Whether customers optimising volumes and consolidating ambitious in nature, adventurous in scope wanted a pho or a taco, a gyoza or a pad thai, factories we have generated effi ciencies we had it covered.
We also launched our and savings.
We have reinvested this money and growing in size, highlighted by us outperforming the market by 3.5%.
39-strong Frozen Meals range, which rmly in price and quality, and also shared it with destroyed the notion that ready meals are suppliers to help them create further QUALITY AND PRICE limited to lasagne and cottage pie, with effi ciencies, thus establishing a virtuous new dishes including Slow Cooked Chicken circle.
Nothing is more important to us Our industry-beating growth springs from and Chorizo Stew and Pulled Pork with than food safety and we have led the way our focus on the provenance, taste and Potato and Kale Hash.
The convenient dishes in reducing campylobacter in our poultry, excitement of the food on our shelves.
We showed customers that a busy lifestyle a stance which has been endorsed by the have maintained a competitive stance on shouldnt be an impediment to a delicious Food Standards Agency.
For example, this year we refused to meal.
We continued to perform particularly match the industry in cutting the price of A well on special occasions, from Valentines SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES milk.
The reason is simple: our milk is better Day to Christmas.
Our Collection range of than our competitors.
At M&S we will not Food waste is a key concern for our gifting and chocolate treats saw sales rise by compromise on either our quality or customers.
Our priority is to reduce food 27% over the festive period.
our relationships with our farmers.
We waste whilst ensuring that, where there is independently taste test all our food and food surplus, we put it to the best possible STORES upgrade or eliminate any product that does use by working with redistribution partners not exceed our rivals equivalent.
We know Our store opening programme continued at like FareShare and Community Shop.
that customers like this stance.
This year we opened 62 Simply Food The first social supermarket in the UK, we are growing our market share.
stores in the UK and ten overseas.
We also Community Shop, gives shoppers on the upped the opening target set in 2013 14 of cusp of food poverty access to surplus 200 new stores by 2016 17 to 250.
The Simply products that would otherwise have been Food format plays into evolving shopping wasted.
We believe supporting communities habits.
People are shopping more regularly in this way is the right thing to do.
Our relaunched Adventures in brand marketing campaign pioneered new camera techniques and won us a raft of awards.
Our Dine In deals continued to grow in popularity.
Over the Valentines weekend, 830,000 couples enjoyed our menu.
As the market-leader in healthy 1.
3. meals, our share of the market is 44% and we sold 40 million meals Note 1 In January 2015 Kantar Worldpanel changed its methodology for recording M&S variable weight barcodes and as a result historical market share data was from our healthy ranges.
The market share data used in this report is based on these updated gures.
This data is not comparable to any published before January 2015.
27 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 OPERATING PERFORMANCE GENERAL MERCHANDISE We have improved the quality and style of our ranges and delivered strong gross margin growth.
JOHN DIXON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, GENERAL MERCHANDISE UK GM WOMENSWEAR LINGERIE MENSWEAR KIDSWEAR 1 1 1 1 REVENUE MARKET SHARE MARKET SHARE MARKET SHARE MARKET SHARE 4.0bn 9.0% 26.3% 10.8% 5.9% -2.5% -0.2% pts 0.4% pts 0.8% pts 0.4% pts PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW source fabric and raw materials more INSPIRING OUR CUSTOMERS eff ectively whilst ensuring we uphold our We have made a number of improvements Two of M&Ss key priorities for 2014 15 were quality credentials perceptions of quality to increase our GM gross margin and to to our stores to make them easier and more were up 6%.
Weachieved the inspiring places to shop.
We presented outt former, with a 190bps increase one of the ideas to customers in smarter ways through Sales for the year as a whole were better use of mannequins and pictures in largest margin improvements ever seen in disappointing.
The UK retail sector was one year at M&S.
The rise was largely due our stores.
We introduced a new Menswear impacted by the third warmest autumn to better buying and sourcing, resulting in layout with simplied displays and strong on record and we were disproportionately an overall increase in profitability for our images emphasising our style and quality.
aff ected due to our high market shares in We extended our Womenswear Limited GM business.
We also focused on further winter categories such as knitwear and improving our clothing ranges, which Edition brand to all stores and our popular coats.
We also faced disruption to deliveries were well received by customers and the Rosie for Autograph lingerie and sleepwear due to the unsatisfactory performance of fashion press, most notably Womenswear.
ranges to more stores, giving our customers our online distribution centre over the peak more choice no matter where they shop.
This was underlined by our fourth quarter Christmas period.
At the start of the year, we performance we ended the year in growth said that our GM sales would be negatively on a total and like-for-like sales basis, giving WORKING EFFICIENTLY AND impacted by the settling in period of our A us positive momentum totake into the new WITH INTEGRITY new website.
Since then, good progress has financial year.
com sales were back in Much has been going on behind the scenes growth in the fourth quarter.
to improve our supply chain.
We have MARGIN AND SALES successfully rolled out the first new system OUR PRODUCTS Despite a highly promotional marketplace, to improve the replenishment of our we remained focused on full price sales and products and availability.
Along with the Overwhelmingly positive press coverage we reduced the number of price promotions ongoing improvements we are making to gave customers confidence to turn to us this year.
This approach also contributed to how we design, source and buy, further for our interpretation of the key trends.
our substantial gross margin improvement.
planning system changes will be made in Customers feedback was equally However, whilst we remain the UKs clothing the coming year.
encouraging: they were excited to see leader, our focus on margin growth and full more confident, bolder collections.
R Responsible supply chain management price sales has impacted our discounted is a key part of ensuring we off er customers We continue to improve the style of our market share, contributing to a slight the high-quality products they expect ranges customer perceptions of style were reduction in our overall market share.
We believe that great quality starts up 4%.
We listened to customer feedback We also changed the way we buy our with good factory and supply chain ethics, and brought greater consistency to the merchandise.
We now design 35% of our and we continue to work closely with t of our garments across all product products in-house compared to 20% last our suppliers to ensure these rigorous categories and brands.
Overall, customer year, and we are making good progress standards continue to be upheld.
complaints fell by 34% over the year as against our long-term target of 60% by customers noticed the improvements to 2016 17.
We continue to use our scale to our Womenswear.
In response to customer demand, we opened a registration list for our Autograph Suede Skirt heroed by the fashion press as a key item for this summers 1970s trend thousands of customers joined the list.
We launched David Gandy for Autograph, a luxurious range of sleepwear and underwear wesold over 450,000 items.
We were pleased to be included on 1.
Ethispheres Worlds Most Ethical Companies list.
Note 1 We continuously work with Kantar to ensure an accurate representation of our business as well as our sales performance.
This has resulted in the recalibration of historical market share data to provide a more accurate representation.
This data is not comparable to any published before November 2014.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 28 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT OPERATING PERFORMANCE CHANNELS We aim to deliver a consistent, convenient and inspirational experience for our customers whichever way they choose to shop with us.
LAURA WADE-GERY EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, MULTI-CHANNEL TOTAL UK FULL LINE M&S SIMPLY FOOD M&S SIMPLY FOOD STORES STORES OUTLET STORES OWNED FRANCHISE 852 302 46 198 306 PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW coordinated ways to show customers how customer satisfaction rose by 18% and they might wear the latest styles.
We conversion rates improved as customers got To ensure that we have one view of the M&S upgraded the environment in many of our more familiar with the new site layout.
Some customer, we brought our UK Retail and stores, including new Menswear departments 7 million shoppers have now registered on M&S.
com channels together under single in our top 70 stores, with elements of the the site, surpassing the number on our former management this year.
The change re ects new scheme rolled out to a further 48, and Amazon-run site.
Customers enjoy the sites our need to deliver a consistent and refreshed Womenswear departments in strong editorial point of view we know they convenient experience for our customers 44stores.
Stronger visual merchandising in are more likely to buy if they see supportive however they shop with us, whether its on a Food helped customers to discover new editorial alongside a garment they like.
On computer, a tablet, a mobile phone or in one avours.
We have started the roll out of our average, conversion was 20% higher on of our 852 UK stores.
It has been a pivotal new Food Hall concept, which adds theatre products that were featured as Editors Picks.
year in terms of our infrastructure.
Whilst we and adventure to the shopping trip.
faced some diffi culties during the bedding in R Our performance was impacted by period, our investment in M&S.
com and our operational challenges at our Castle Knowledgeable employees are our bedrock, distribution centre at Castle Donington are and this year our training initiatives continued Donington distribution centre over the peak the right thing for our business in the long to ensure that customers had an easy and Christmas period.
Highly automated sites like term.
We are now t for the future and in this often need re nement during their first enjoyable shopping experience.
Our control of our multi-channel ambitions.
period of sustained demand and we have colleagues know that our unyielding focus on Presentation, Availability, Cross-selling and made progress in addressing the issues.
We STORES service, and Knowledge our PACK priorities have learned from this, made improvements to our systems, and strengthened our is what separates us from the competition.
We focused our space growth on the Simply management team who continue to closely Food format, opening 62 new stores, which M&S.
We are con dent in increased customer access an additional our long-term ability to serve our customers 1.2 million people are now within ten minutes Following our move from the Amazon web better.
Customers saw improvements in our drive of a Simply Food.
Although our strategy platform, this was the first full year in which we delivery proposition as the year progressed, is to add no net new GM space to our store had control of our website.
Whilst it proved to with the introduction of a 10pm cut-off for estate after 2015 16, we continue to review our be technically resilient, the new site presented paid next day home delivery and a 5pm portfolio to ensure that our stores are in the a bigger change for our customers than we cut-off for free next day store collection.
We opened two anticipated and sales were aff ected.
We Since it opened, Castle Donington has full line stores at Monks Cross in York and worked hard to address this and made a handled over 85 million products.
number of updates to improve the shopping experience.
Our customers liked the Our website and distribution centre are Within our stores we concentrated on enhanced functionality and cleaner look of powerful engines for growth.
Following creating an environment that projects our the site, which we continually ne-tune to our investment in them, we now have a big products style and innovation credentials.
make as intuitive as possible.
com sales opportunity to drive online sales growth, Guidance was a central theme.
Using the returned to growth in the fourth quarter and increase our online pro tability and set M&S Way principles, we merchandised our we saw gradual improvement across all key M&S up for years to come.
collections in more cohesive and colour metrics: over the year traffi c grew by 10.9%, 1.
The number of visits to our equivalent to the energy website via mobile phones needed to power 1,190 rose from 7 million in 2012, houses.
A We installed the UKs our first full line store to be largest single roof-mounted given a full PlanA eco re t, solar panel array on our and features a 167sqmetre distribution centre it will green wall irrigated with generate over 5,000 MWh rainwater.
29 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 OPERATING PERFORMANCE INTERNATIONAL This year, we accelerated the roll-out of our Food stores overseas and continued to focus on our priority markets.
PATRICK BOUSQUET-CHAVANNE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, MARKETING & INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL REVENUE STORES TERRITORIES 1.1bn 480 59 -5.7% 25 NET NEW STORES PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW However, with a strong International consumer and we are tapping into that trend.
management team and proven overseas We opened six stores in Paris and four in Hong From Paris to Prague and from Cairo to partners, we remain committed to the longerKong over the year, taking the total number Kolkata, M&S is seen as a trusted and term opportunity which we rmly believe of international Food stores to 31.
Overall progressive brand with a strong sense of exists within our international markets.
sales per square foot are in line with our best British identity.
We now trade from 480 stores performing Simply Food stores in the UK.
Our and online in 59 territories across the world.
OUR PRIORITY MARKETS recipe for success is the same as in our home We accelerated the roll-out of our Food stores market: we sell good value, delicious food overseas and continued to focus on our We are growing in scale and relevance in our from convenient locations.
priority markets, delivering some strong two key markets of India and China.
In India performance in key owned markets such as we opened 12 stores and our store opening NEW OPENINGS India and Hong Kong.
Following the action plan is on track.
Sustainable economic we took to restructure our business in the development, a burgeoning middle class, In May 2015, we re-entered Brussels with a Republic of Ireland and the Czech Republic, and an instinctive understanding of the new 54,000 square foot store at Toison dOr we were pleased to see improvements in M&S brand make India a fertile market for and in November we will open a second store pro tability in both markets.
In Greater China, we in Macau at The Venetian Mall.
We have an opened a store in Macau and announced exciting pipeline of openings in the Middle However, sales in our International business our intention to open agships in Beijing East.
In February we opened our largest fell by 2.1% on a constant currency basis.
The and Guangzhou from next year, and we will international store in Kuwait.
The View is a pro tability of our franchise business was continue to invest in our existing agship 72,000 square foot agship that is operated impacted by a geopolitically turbulent year store portfolio.
However, following the by our longstanding franchise partner in a number of our franchise territories.
This completion of a review, we are closing five of Al-Futtaim Group.
The store contains our particularly aff ected performance in Russia, our smaller stores in the Shanghai region as largest Clothing, Food, Home and Beauty Ukraine and Turkey, where our franchise we refocus our emphasis on stores in the off er in the region and houses a 60-seat caf.
partner was impacted by political instability more affl uent areas.
We are also seeing and local currency uctuations which resulted R signi cant online growth in China on our GLOBAL LANDSCAPE in lower shipments.
Elsewhere in the Middle site on the Tmall.
com marketplace sales The last year has been volatile economically East region, the macroeconomic situation increased by 200% on last year.
We launched and politically in a number of our territories.
has impacted consumer demand and our a new dedicated Kidswear store on Tmall.
com However, there are two ways that our franchise partners have adapted to the and a new clothing store on JD.
The International strategy mitigates any risk challenging environment by managing their success of our online expansion further stemming from events beyond our control.
businesses prudently and ordering less stock.
strengthens our continued commitment Firstly, our geographical diversi cation means A review of our international store estate, to China.
that we are not too exposed to any one coupled with the adverse euro exchange rates country.
Secondly, the growing role of Food and tough consumer environment, resulted INTERNATIONAL FOOD GROWTH internationally means that we eff ectively in writedowns of 37.2m relating to certain We have seen tremendous success from the have two businesses overseas, giving us a underperforming stores in Western Europe, roll-out of our Food stores overseas.
Around broader and more stable international Ireland and China.
the world, grocers are moving closer to the footprint.
The in-store bakery in our branch in La Dfense, Paris, takes more money than any other bakery in our entire estate.
We now have five standalone Lingerie & Beauty stores in the Middle East and India.
A We are rolling out the Marks & Spencer Clothes Exchange, known as Shwopping in the UK, to our international markets following a successful trial in our Czech Republic and Hong 1.
Kong stores, which saw 35,000 items donated.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 30 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT OPERATING PERFORMANCE OUR BRAND W We reinforced our strengths as a trusted and unique Br Briitish lifestyle brand with a new approach that told the many stories that make our products diff erent.
PATRICK BOUSQUET-CHAVANNE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, MARKETING & INTERNATIONAL PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW handwriting extended to M&S.
com and SEASONAL AND FOCUSED its daily publications hub, Style & Living.
That was our After last years Leading Ladies campaign As a modern retailer, we must provide an mission this year: to speak in unison across re-established M&Ss style credentials, our inspiring digital or printed expression of the GM and Food sides of our business, approach to marketing this year has been who we are on every platform.
across communication channels, and across more product focused and richer in digital geographies.
By uniting all narratives under video content.
We sought to emphasise our THE CONNECTED CONSUMER the Only M&S umbrella, we reinforced our leadership in authoritative categories such strengths as a trusted and unique British Our Christmas marketing campaign The as knitwear, occasionwear and cashmere.
Two Fairies was a great example of how all In Food, our January marketing focused our channels can come together to tell a on our health ranges while our Adventures We raised the bar with our advertising, holistic and believable story.
The campaign in Imagination campaign highlighted the gaining strong brand recognition for our followed two fairies as they spread expertise, creativity and passion behind renewed focus on product.
In Food, we Christmas magic and sparkle across the our food ranges from around the world.
showed that we are at the forefront of land.
It started secretly and quickly went Customers will see even more of this discovery and creativity.
We remained viral as we covertly carried out random acts storytelling next year as our marketing focused on our core strength as a speciality of kindness in schools, hospitals and stores.
In Clothing, we Our @TheTwoFairies Twitter tag amassed demonstrated that our ranges are fresh, R 30,000 followers before we revealed that STAYING RELEVANT stylish and in sync with the current trends.
The TV ad that followed We may have a broad church of customers an escapist fantasy that continued the around the world, but by harnessing A FRESH APPROACH random acts of kindness theme achieved technology and leveraging the power of Our new logo M&S Est.
Customers liked the our Customer Insight Unit, we can talk designed to show our brand heritage in a warmth and wit of M&Ss first truly social to all 33 million of our customers in a more contemporary and relevant way.
There is always a risk the logo, we are expressing our roots but that brands will lose their relevancy, but Today, all our communications start with also showing that we are a modern brand by engaging with our customers and a core idea that gets expressed across all that has inspired the British high street adapting to their needs, we will remain the consumer touchpoints: stores, online, for generations.
With 131 years of trading pertinent to their everyday lives.
mobile, social media, print media, billboards under our belts, our heritage is a great and TV.
Our award-winning Adventures in diff erentiator and we are rightly proud of it.
Food TV ads harnessed online videos to We revamped all our publications to reect get their message across.
Today, a fifth of this new look, from our Home catalogue our media budget goes on social media, to our Food to Order catalogue, and we four times more than three years ago.
This launched Womenswear and Menswear Style approach reects how people live today Guides for the first time.
The new brand and how they expect to engage with M&S.
The combined size of our social media audience through platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Pinterest is 2,606,000, up 22% on the previous year.
M&S was one of the offi cial sponsors of London Fashion Weekend.
The partnership demonstrated our fashion credentials.
The Cook with M&S app we launched this year saw 250,000 people sign up in just four months 1.
3. and was featured as the #1 Food & Drink app in the Apple App Store.
31 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 OPERATING PERFORMANCE PEOPLE Our people continue to be the most important part of our company they drive the high performance culture that is vital for our future success and embrace the values that make M&S diff erent.
AVERAGE NUMBER EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT TRAINING AND OF EMPLOYEES SCORE DEVELOPMENT DAYS 83,069 77% 1.5 PER CUSTOMER ASSISTANT OVERVIEW one-day events in locations across the UK largely salesoor-driven one.
In the third including Wembley Stadium.
The events were quarter alone, 15,000 colleagues took part in This year we made a number of changes to designed to inspire these front line managers the new programme.
This resulted in our new the way we do things to ensure that M&S is a and better inform them about why M&S takes starters becoming operationally eff ective collaborative and innovative place to work.
After all, their leadership 40% faster than previously.
Technology is R directly impacts our customers experiences a great enabler when it comes to training.
Around 6,000 employees completed our From the boardroom to the salesoor, app-based The M&S Way training module every one of our 83,000 employees has a ENGAGEMENT AND EFFICIENCY about in-store presentation.
direct stake in our future.
So this year we Considerable internal change meant that undertook a Company-wide employee A PLAN A our Your Say survey showed a slight fall in engagement programme.
Fit for the Future employee engagement levels this year.
In 2014 we celebrated a decade of our was designed to ensure that we are in the However we were pleased it remained high Marks & Start employability scheme.
Along best shape to face the challenges and at 77%.
Our Your Manager score rose by 4% with our Make Your Mark youth scheme, we opportunities of a fast-changing retail to 83%, demonstrating the commitment have helped over 13,600 people who face landscape with an environment and of our managers in driving a high significant barriers to employment take culture that encourages innovation.
their first steps into the job market.
We plan As a result of the programme, we improved to provide opportunities to another 4,400 We implemented numerous new operational organisational effi ciency and simplied people by 2016. systems over the year.
Our Resource our decision-making processes.
We also Planning System increased our eff ectiveness We have a duty of care for people all through introduced a raft of measures to encourage when it came to establishing colleagues our supply chain.
We surveyed over 100,000 entrepreneurialism and a more digital work patterns.
And our centralised payroll, workers via text message in countries mindset.
Taken together, these initiatives time and attendance system, which has now including China, India and Bangladesh.
spread a sense of ownership throughout been in place over a year, won Personnel Their feedback on issues such as workplace M&S.
Our people are now equipped to Todays Managing Change Award, one of the health and safety helped us to align our challenge behaviour that slows us down numerous accolades we received this year.
and champion ideas that will inspire our customers.
THE POWER OF 92 M&S is a very diff erent business to the one it was five years ago.
In that time we have An informed workforce is a motivated upskilled our teams in areas such as digital, workforce.
Last summer we directly international, logistics and design to ensure engaged with the greatest inuencers on we have the right capabilities to compete.
our store staff : our 3,500 Section Managers.
Our new Customer These people manage 92% of our salesoor Assistant Induction programme replaced a colleagues, and our The Power of 92 workshop-heavy induction process with a engagement programme saw us hold 1.
A Since 2010, weve provided design for our store colleagues this training to over 652,000 workers year, which re ects the modern in our GM supply chain, improving look and feel of the new M&S knowledge and skills in areas like branding.
It is already in our top 70 health and nutrition, financial stores and is being rolled out to all management, sanitation, childcare, stores by January 2016. education and community leadership.
2,000 of our International staff took part in Beyond the Barcode, an app-based training module about 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
