Strategic Report Risk Management and Principal Risks Managing risk to deliver strategic objectives Approach to risk management Framework Risk management is the responsibility of the Board and is a key factor in The Board: the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
The Board establishes the culture of effective risk management and is responsible for maintaining determines the Groups approach to risk, its policies and the appropriate systems and controls.
The Board sets the risk appetite and procedures that are put in place to mitigate exposure to risk.
determines the policies and procedures that are put in place to mitigate exposure to risks.
The Audit Committee: Process has delegated responsibility from the Board to oversee risk There is a formal ongoing process to identify, assess and analyse management and internal controls: risks and those of a potentially significant nature are included in the reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management Group Risk Register.
During 2015, the Risk Register process has been andinternal control procedures: and independently reviewed by KPMG, in its capacity as the Groups internal auditor, and a number of design improvements have been monitors the effectiveness of the internal audit function and theindependence of the external audit.
The conclusion of this review has been that the process continues to be a robust mechanism for monitoring and controlling the Groups principal risks.
Executive Directors: Internal audit: The Group Risk Register is reviewed and updated at least every are responsible for the undertakes independent 6 months by management and twice a year by the Board, and the effective maintenance of reviews of effectiveness of overall process is the subject of regular review.
Risks are recorded with the Groups Risk Register: internal control procedures: a full analysis and risk owners are nominated who have authority and oversee the management reports on effectiveness of responsibility for assessing and managing the risk.
All risks are aligned of risk: management actions: and with the Groups strategic objectives and each risk is analysed for monitor risk mitigation provides assurance to the impact and probability to determine exposure and impact to the and controls: and Audit Committee.
business, and the determination of a gross risk score enables risk exposure to be prioritised.
External risks include the weather, political monitor the effective and economic conditions, the effect of legislation or other regulatory implementation of actions, the actions of competitors, foreign exchange, raw material action plans.
prices and threats from cyber security, new technologies and business models.
Internal risks include investment in newproducts, Operational managers: new business strategies and acquisitions.
Environmental and are responsible for identification of operational and strategic risks: sustainability considerations are also taken into account.
are responsible for ownership and control of specific risks: and The Group seeks to mitigate exposure to all forms of strategic, financial are responsible for establishing and managing the and operational risk, both external and internal.
The effectiveness of implementation of appropriate action plans.
keymitigating controls is continually monitored and such controls aresubjected to internal audit and periodic testing in order to provideindependent verification where this is deemed appropriate.
Theeffectiveness and impact of key controls are evaluated and this is used to determine a net risk score for each risk.
The process is used to develop action plans that are used to manage, or respond to, the risks and these are monitored and reviewed on a regular basis by the Groups Audit Committee.
M Marshalls plc arshalls plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Principal risks and uncertainties The Directors have undertaken a robust, systematic assessment of the Groups principal risks.
These have been considered within the timeframe of 3 years, which aligns with our Viability Statement page 23.
Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors Change Macro-economic and political The Group is dependent on The lower activity levels could The Group closely monitors trends Economic risk has reduced as economic the level of activity in its end reduce sales and production andlead indicators, invests in and sector outlook and growth rates markets.
Accordingly, it is volumes and, therefore, could have market research and is an active have improved.
susceptible to economic an adverse effect on the Group's member ofthe CPA.
There continues to be growth potential downturn and the impact financial results.
The Group benefits from the in certain focus areas, e. g. Rail, Water of Government policy.
diversity ofits business and Management and Street Furniture, and Theavailability of credit endmarkets.
forward indicators in the core business totheGroup's customers remain positive.
The Group focuses on sales isakeydeterminant of opportunities and strategic growth The economic outlook for the Eurozone economic activity.
initiatives, together with quality, continues to be difficult, although proactive service and its supply chain.
development of the product range continues to be positive.
Weather The Group is exposed to the The lower activity levels could The Group has a continuing focus Weather conditions are totally impact of prolonged periods reduce sales and production on new product development, beyond the Groups control.
volumes and, therefore, could have including landscape water an adverse effect on the Group's management.
The Group is developing its internal flooring offer and developing its international strategy in order to diversify its activities.
Customers The UK business has a number The loss of a significant customer The Group focuses on brand and Although the underlying risk ofkey customers, in particular may give rise to a significant new product development, quality continues, the effective the national merchants.
This adverse effect on the Group's and customerservice improvement.
management of key relationships ispartly as a result of the financial results.
and the ongoing diversification The Group maintains a national consolidated nature of ofthe business are serving to network of manufacturing and thismarket.
The Group undertakes ongoing reviews of trading policies and relationships and maintains constant communication with customers.
Strategic objectives Organic expansion Shareholder value Sustainable profitability Brand development Relationship building Effective capital structure andcontrol framework M Marshalls plc arshalls plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Risk Management and Principal Risks continued Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors Change Competitor activity The Group has a number The increased competition The Group has unique selling points The improved market outlook ofexisting competitors couldreduce volumes and that differentiate the Marshalls brand.
has increased demand relative whocompete on range, price, marginson manufactured to available supply and this has The Group focuses on quality, quality and service.
led to a reduction in such service, reliability and ethical competitive pressure.
Potential new low cost standards that differentiate Marshalls competitors may be attracted from competitor products.
There is continuing demand into the market through for imported natural stone The Group continues to have increased demand for imported products, although Marshalls the lowest cost to market.
brand development and The Group has a continuing focus product differentiation onnew product development.
continue to mitigate the risk.
Threat from new technologies and new business models Reduction in demand The increased competition could Good market intelligence.
The ongoing diversification fortraditional products.
reduce volumes and margins on of the business and the Flexible business strategy able to traditional products.
continued development of the Risk of new competitors embrace new technologies.
Marshalls brand continue to andnew substitute Significant focus on research and mitigate the risk.
Failure to react to Development of a digital strategy.
Cost and availability of raw materials The Group is susceptible to The increased costs could reduce The Group benefits from the diversity Cost inflation remains a significant increases in the margins and may be further of its business and end markets.
riskasdemand for raw price of raw materials, utilities, impacted in the event of imbalances materials increases.
The Group focuses on its supplier fuel oil, haulage costs and in the mix of regional activity.
relationships, flexible contracts and The improved market outlook vehicle availability.
The risk of market demand the use of hedging instruments.
has increased demand relative As demand increases, the Group exceeding raw material supply could to available supply, but the risk The Group utilises sales pricing and is potentially more exposed to lead to inefficient production, which of temporary shortages has purchasing policies designed to the risk of temporary raw could reduce margins.
stabilised due to proactive mitigate the risks.
supply chain management and The Group uses specialist the use of alternative suppliers.
IT infrastructure Disruption to the IT environment Ineffective procedures could lead to All IT system development projects The continued investment in could affect the Group's ability to an adverse effect on the Group's areactively and carefully planned and maintenance of IT systems conduct its ongoing operations.
withdefined governance and across the Group give rise to controlprocedures.
good control of this risk.
Regular independent risk and project management audits are undertaken.
The Group ensures that industry standards are adopted and disaster recovery plans and procedures exist andare regularly tested.
Cyber security risks Inadequate controls and Risk of data loss financial and Use of IT security policies.
Currently a high profile area and procedures over the protection reputational risk.
considerable focus is being Restructured IT department of intellectual property, sensitive given to promoting awareness toco-ordinate the stewardship employee information and of IT security policies.
Appropriate tools and training Sensitive data is currently restricted procedures are in place to to selected senior and experienced protect sensitive data when employees who are used to handling stored and transmitted between such data.
parties e. g. encryption of hard Where sensitive data is made available drives, restricted USB devices, to third parties it is done under secure data transmission confidentiality agreements with mechanisms and third-party reputable suppliers.
M Marshalls plc arshalls plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Nature of risk Potential impact Mitigating factors Change Environmental The impact of the Environmental An incident could lead to disruption The Group uses professional specialists The Group is unable to Protocol leads to the need for to production and to financial covering carbon reduction, water predict future changes in increasingly expensive processes.
penalties as well as a potential management and biodiversity.
environmental laws or negative impact on the policies or the ultimate cost An environmental contamination The Group focuses on the Group'sreputation.
of compliance with such event may lead to a prosecution implementation of ISO standards.
The Group has a formal Group sustainability strategy focusing onimpact reduction.
Corporate, legal and regulatory The Group may be adversely An incident could lead to a The Group employs compliance The extension of the affected by an unexpected disruption to the supply of products procedures, policies and independent Groups activities into new reputational event, for example, for customers and to increased audit processes which seek to ensure international markets in its ethical supply chain or due costs as well as a potential negative that local, national and international causes this risk to continue, to a health and safety incident.
impact on the Group's reputation.
regulatory and compliance procedures notwithstanding the are fully complied with.
additional compliance Significant increases in the penalty procedures within the regime have increased the potential supply chain.
financial impact of health and safety incidents.
Health and safety and the potential impact of the Bribery Act continue to be high profile risk areas.
Access to funding The Group continues to require Insufficient access to funding could The Group has significant committed The improved economic debt funding in order to meet its limit the Groups ability to achieve facilities in place, with a good spread outlook and the Groups trading obligations and to grow the desired levels of growth.
ofmedium-term maturities and reduced gearing have the business.
continued to reduce this risk.
There is also improved liquidity The Groups policy continues to be to and increased competition arrange funding ahead of requirements within the banking sector.
and to maintain sufficient undrawn committed bank facilities.
integrated model that incorporates the income statement, balance Viability Statement After considering the principal risks above, the Directors have sheet and cash flow projections.
Key KPIs and financial ratios are reviewed along with the ongoing appropriateness of all assumptions assessed the prospects of the Group over a longer period than the12 months required by the going concern basis of accounting.
Scenario planning is undertaken along with stress testing against downside sensitivities.
The stress testing reflects the principal The Directors separate statement on going concern is set out on page 45.
The Directors consider that the Groups risk management risks that could conceivably threaten the Groups ability to continue operating as a going concern and has critically assessed downside process satisfies the requirements of provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
scenarios that might give rise to sales volume reductions, deteriorating operating margins and increases in interest rates.
The principal risks The Board considers annually, and on a rolling basis, a 3-year and uncertainties are set out above and, in the opinion of the Directors, strategic plan, which is assessed with reference to the Groups the risk of economic downturn, linked to macro-economic and current position and prospects, the strategic objectives, and the political factors, is the most significant driver in the stress test operation of the procedures and policies to manage the principal scenarios.
The stress testing has used the financial impact of the risks that might threaten the business model, future performance lastrecession as the core sensitivity, with significantly reduced and target capital structure.
In this assessment security, flexibility salesvolumes giving rise to a 25 per cent decrease in revenue over and efficiency are the guiding principles that underpin the Groups a2-year period and reflecting a 40 per cent fall in operating margin.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have The Board considers 3 years to be an appropriate period of areasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue assessment as this aligns with the Groups strategic plan and the inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next Directors also consider that they have reasonable visibility of the 3years.
The Groups strategic plan includes an M Marshalls plc arshalls plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
