Melrose Industries PLC Strategic Report 28 Annual Report 2015 Risk management The Board recognises that operating in a dynamic and rapidly evolving commercial environment requires a pragmatic, flexible and responsive risk management framework that changes with the business and provides management with a comprehensive view of the Groups risk profile at any given time.
The Boards risk management across the Group, through regular updates at a specific point in time.
Any material assessment undertaken in 2015 has and discussions with management and changes in risk factors will impact the resulted in a number of changes to our a review of the key findings presented Boards assessment of its risk appetite.
These by the external and internal auditors.
The The Board has a higher risk appetite changes are detailed in the principal Board is responsible for considering the towards its strategic and operational risks risks and uncertainties table on pages Audit Committees recommendations and and a balanced appetite towards macro- 30 to 35. ensuring implementation by management economic and political risk.
The Board of those recommendations it deems seeks to minimise all health and safety appropriate for the business.
A description Risk management strategy risks and has a low risk appetite in relation of the Audit Committees activities during and framework to legal, compliance and regulatory the year on risk management can be found The objectives of the Directors and senior risk.
Similarly, a conservative appetite on page 60. management are to safeguard and increase is indicated by the Board with respect the value of the business and assets of the During 2015, in accordance with provision to pension and finance-related risks.
Achievement of these objectives C. 2.3 of the UK Corporate Governance The results of the risk appetite review requires the development of policies and Code, the Board instructed the Audit will support the Boards decision making appropriate internal control frameworks to Committee to undertake a robust review processes during 2016.
It is the intention ensure the Groups resources are managed of the effectiveness of the Groups risk to undertake a review of the Boards risk properly and any key risks are identified and management and internal control systems, appetite at least annually.
covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance The Board recognises that it is ultimately 2015 risk management actions controls.
The Audit Committee reported responsible for determining the nature In 2014, the Board initiated a root and its findings to the Board.
From this review and extent of the principal risks it is willing branch audit and review of the risk of the risk management and internal control to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
management framework and the underlying systems, the Board did not identify, nor It also recognises the need to define a risk processes in operation in every business was it advised of, any failings or weakness appetite for the Group, to maintain sound across the Melrose Group.
The results which it would determine to be significant.
risk management and internal control of this review were presented to the Board The Board concluded that the Groups risk systems and to monitor its risk exposures and an action plan setting out key risk management and internal control systems and mitigations to ensure that the nature management priorities was agreed.
and processes were operating effectively and extent of risks taken by the Group are and therefore a confirmation in respect During 2015, the Board, supported by consistent and aligned with its strategic of necessary actions to be undertaken the Company Secretary and BDO LLP, objectives.
has not been considered appropriate.
delivered on these priorities and an The Board confirms that there is an enhanced risk management framework The Group operates on a decentralised ongoing process for identifying, evaluating was implemented across the Group.
basis and the Board has established and managing the principal risks faced Specific actions undertaken during the an organisational structure with clear by the Company and that these systems, year include: reporting procedures, lines of responsibility which are subject to regular monitoring and delegated authority, as depicted in the reviewing and reaffirming the Boards and review, have been in place for the diagram on the following page.
Consistent risk appetite: year under review and up to the date of with this, the Group operates a top-down approval of the Annual Report and financial updating and relaunching the Melrose bottom-up approach to risk management, statements.
Risk Management Strategy: comprising Board and senior management The Board further confirms that the oversight coupled with bottom-up risk developing and implementing an systems, processes and controls in place management embedded in the day-to-day enhanced risk management governance accord with the guidance contained in the activities of its individual businesses.
This Financial Reporting Councils Guidance framework defines the Melrose on Risk Management, Internal Control Risk appetite principles for risk management and and Related Financial Business Reporting.
The Board has undertaken a comprehensive sets the standards for the identification, exercise to consider its risk appetite across evaluation, prioritisation, recording, The Audit Committee monitors the a number of key business risk areas.
The review and reporting of risks and their effectiveness of the risk management and results of this review indicate the relative management or mitigation throughout internal control processes implemented appetite of the Board across the risk factors the organisation: Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 29 Risk management framework Review and Identification Evaluation Mitigation Analysis monitoring Financial and nonRisk exposure Risk owners identified Risks analysed for Robust mitigation financial risks recorded in reviewed and risks and action plans impact and probability strategy subject to controlled risk registers prioritised implemented to determine gross regular and rigorous exposure review cascading throughout the Group a new Risk management priorities and managed to ensure the delivery of risk register template and a risk profile long-term value creation.
Further resources for 2016 mapping application.
These provide the will also be devoted to strengthening the Sound progress has been made during Board with greater levels of detail and mechanisms for providing independent 2015 in respect of the Groups risk visibility on the risk management systems assurance on the effectiveness of the management processes.
However, the and processes in place, and illustrate Groups risk management governance, Board recognises that Melrose cannot each principal risk facing the Group from processes and controls.
In 2016, management both a gross risk pre-mitigation and net will continue to focus on refining the risk postmitigation position.
The risk risk management framework and on Risks and uncertainties 30 mapping application provides Directors embedding a culture of effective risk with a clear risk profile for the Group management across the Group to ensure Corporate Governance Report 54 and enables the Board to determine the that risks and opportunities are identified degree to which this profile is aligned with its risk appetite: rolling out a Group-wide education and Risk management responsibilities training programme focused on instilling The Board, having overall responsibility for risk management, has approved and embedding a culture of effective risk a formalised, but pragmatic, Group risk management framework.
management: providing a series of risk management Agrees the Groups risk strategy Top down Board workshops, attended by risk champions and defines its risk appetite at the Group Overall responsibility from each business unit, which provide level, risk Reviews reports and for risk management a forum for sharing, learning and refining oversight and recommendations from Audit risk tools and processes: and Committee on risk governance assessment reviewing and improving the Groups Maintains oversight of key risks and mitigation plans processes around the assessment of principal risks and the monitoring and reporting of the Groups risk management Oversees the risk management Audit Committee processes and controls performance.
Monitors the effectiveness Supports the Board in monitoring of the Groups internal risk exposure against risk appetite Assessment of principal risks control processes During the year the Board undertook a robust, in-depth and comprehensive Set the risk management processes Melrose senior assessment of the principal risks facing and controls management and the Group and specifically those that Consider emerging risks business unit senior might threaten the delivery of its strategic managers Oversee and challenge risk business model, its future performance, mitigation plans solvency or liquidity.
Risk identification, assessment and A summary of the principal risks and Operational managers Bottom up monitoring at the business unit level uncertainties that could impact on the risk exposure and financial Implementing risk mitigation plans Groups performance is shown on pages identification controllers and controls and assessment 30 to 35.
Further information detailing at the business Embedding risk awareness the internal control and risk management unit level and culture throughout the business policies and procedures operated within the Group is shown on pages 56 and 57 of the Corporate Governance Report.
