Melrose Industries PLC Strategic Report 30 Annual Report 2015 Risks and uncertainties The table below lists the principal risks and uncertainties that may affect the Group and highlights the mitigating actions that are being taken.
The content of the table, however, is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all the risks and uncertainties that may arise and nor is the order of the list intended to be any indication of priority.
A risk management and internal controls framework is in place within the Group to ensure that such risks and uncertainties can be identified and, where possible, managed suitably.
Each Group business maintains a risk register which is reviewed regularly by both the management of the business and the Melrose Board.
Risk Strategic Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Responsibility trend Trend commentary priorities Strategic risk Acquisition of new businesses The success of the Groups acquisition strategy depends on identifying available and suitable targets, Structured and focused due diligence undertaken.
Executive Following the disposal of Elster, the Buy 1 and improvement strategies obtaining any consents or authorisations required to carry out an acquisition and procuring the necessary management Group is currently on the lookout for its Focus on acquisition targets that have strong headline Improve financing, be this from equity, debt or a combination of the two.
In making acquisitions, there is a risk of next acquisition.
fundamentals, high-quality products, leading market unforeseen liabilities being later discovered which were not uncovered or known at the time of the due diligence Sell share but which are underperforming their potential process.
Further, as per the Groups strategy to buy and improve good but under-performing manufacturing and ability to generate sustainable cash flows and businesses, once an acquisition is completed, there are risks that the Group will not succeed in driving strategic profit growth.
operational improvements to achieve the expected post-acquisition trading results or value which were originally anticipated, that the acquired products and technologies may not be successful or that the business may Hands-on role taken by Directors and other senior require significantly greater resources and investment than anticipated.
If anticipated benefits are not realised employees of the Group.
or trading by acquired businesses falls below expectations, it may be necessary to impair the carrying value Development of strategic plans, restructuring of these assets.
The Groups return on shareholder investment may fall if acquisition hurdle rates are not met.
opportunities, capital expenditure and working capital The Groups financial performance may suffer from goodwill or other acquisition-related impairment charges, management.
or from the identification of additional liabilities not known at the time of the acquisition.
Timing of disposals In line with our strategy and depending where the Group is within the buy, improve, sell cycle, the expected Directors are experienced in judging and regularly Executive Following the disposal of the Elster Buy 1 timing of any disposal of businesses is considered as a principal risk which could have a material impact on reviewing the appropriate time in a business cycle for management business with minimal retained liabilities, Improve the Group strategy.
Further, due to the Groups global operations, there may be a significant impact on timing a disposal to realise maximum value for shareholders.
the Groups focus is on the buy and of disposal due to political and macroeconomic factors.
Depending on the timings of disposals and nature improve stages of its strategy.
Sell Each disposal is assessed on its merits, with a key focus of businesses operations there may be long-term liabilities which could be retained by the Group following on a clean disposal.
Insufficient allowance for such retained liabilities may affect the Groups financial position.
Diversity of operations Following the sale of Elster, the Melrose Groups operations are less diversified, both commercially and Brush is itself a diversified group comprising Executive Whilst the Elster disposal has resulted in Buy 1 geographically, and comprise only Brush.
Weak performance in Brush, or in any particular part of Brushs Turbogenerators, Transformers, Switchgear and management less diversity within the Group, the Melrose Improve businesses, would have an adverse impact on the financial condition of the Group.
These businesses serve different markets, Board and management are actively different geographies and different customers.
reviewing acquisition opportunities which Sell Anticipated further development of the Aftermarket will mitigate the risks of over-concentration.
business will result in greater diversification and thereby reduce the risk of over-concentration.
1 Comprises executive Directors and Melrose senior management.
Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 31 Strategic risk profile Our updated view of the current strategic risk profile is shown below.
The residual risk scores have been calculated on a post-mitigation basis.
Risk trend since No Risk rating Risk title last annual report High Acquisition of new businesses Increase 2 1 1 and improvement strategies Moderate Timing of disposals Decrease 2 4 5 3 Moderate Diversity of operations Increase 3 8 9 High Economic and political No change 4 6 7 Moderate Loss of key management No change 5 10 Moderate Legal, regulatory and environmental Decrease 6 Remote Unlikely Possible Likely Very likely Low Information security and cyber threat No change 7 Probability Low Foreign exchange rate Decrease 8 Low Pensions Decrease 9 Low Liquidity Decrease 10 Risk Strategic Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Responsibility trend Trend commentary priorities Strategic risk Acquisition of new businesses The success of the Groups acquisition strategy depends on identifying available and suitable targets, Structured and focused due diligence undertaken.
Impact on financial condition Very low Low Moderate High Very high Melrose Industries PLC Strategic Report 32 Annual Report 2015 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Strategic Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Responsibility trend Trend commentary priorities Operational risk Economic and political The Group operates, through manufacturing and or sales facilities, in numerous countries and is affected by Regular monitoring of order books and other leading Executive The fall in oil prices has resulted in a Buy 1 global economic conditions.
Businesses are also affected by government spending priorities and the willingness indicators, to ensure the Group and each of its management challenging year for Brush sales, with Improve of governments to commit substantial resources.
Current global economic and financial market conditions, businesses can respond quickly to any adverse trading difficult end-market conditions expected including any fluctuation in commodity prices in particular, the prices of oil and gas, the potential for a significant conditions.
This includes the identification of cost to continue in 2016.
However, the Sell and prolonged global recession and any uncertainty in the political environment may materially and adversely reduction and efficiency measures.
Board notes that economic uncertainty, affect the Groups operational performance, financial condition and could have significant impact on timing lower levels of investment and a downturn Finance for acquisitions is readily available to the of acquisitions and disposals.
in corporate earnings can depress Group from banking syndicates.
This has proven to be business valuations and this may increase available to the Group even during periods of economic A recession may also materially affect customers, suppliers and other parties with which the Group does the number of potential acquisition downturn, for example during the global financial crisis business.
Adverse economic and financial market conditions may cause customers to terminate existing orders, opportunities for Melrose.
in 2008. to reduce their purchases from the Group, or to be unable to meet their obligations to pay outstanding debts to the Group.
These market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to the Group or to change the credit terms they extend to the Groups businesses.
Loss of key management The success of the Group is built upon strong management teams.
As a result, the loss of key personnel Succession planning within the Group and its businesses Executive Succession planning remains a core Buy 1 could have a significant impact on performance, at least for a time.
The loss of key personnel or the failure is coordinated via the Nomination Committee in management focus for the Nomination Committee Improve to plan adequately for succession or develop new talent may impact the reputation of the Group or lead conjunction with the Board and includes all Directors and the Board.
Succession planning to a disruption in the leadership of the business.
Competition for personnel is intense and the Group may not and senior employees.
of executive Directors and senior Sell be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, particularly engineering professionals.
The loss of management, together with visibility of The Company recognises that, as with most key employees, the Groups inability to attract new and adequately-trained employees or a delay in hiring key potential successors within the Group, businesses, particularly those operating within personnel could seriously harm the Groups business.
Over time, the Groups competitive advantage is defined has been selected as an area for targeted a technical field, it is dependent on Directors and by the quality of its people: should the Group fail to attract, develop and retain key talent, the competitive management focus during 2016. employees with particular managerial, engineering advantage will erode, leading to weaker growth potential or returns.
Appropriate remuneration packages and long-term incentive arrangements are offered in an effort to attract and retain such individuals.
Compliance and ethical risk Legal, regulatory There is a risk that the Group may not always be in complete compliance with laws, regulations or permits, Regular monitoring of legal and regulatory matters Executive Among other initiatives, during 2015, the Buy 1 and environmental for example concerning environmental requirements.
The Group could be held responsible for liabilities and at both a Group and business level.
Consultation with management Group implemented a revised compliance Improve consequences arising from past or future environmental damage, including potentially significant remedial external advisers where necessary.
framework across its businesses, costs.
There can also be no assurance that any provisions for expected environmental liabilities and remediation complemented by an online compliance Sell A robust control framework is in place underpinned by costs will adequately cover these liabilities or costs.
training platform and a best-practice comprehensive corporate governance and compliance whistleblowing line.
procedures at both a Group and business level.
The Group operates in highly-regulated sectors.
In addition, new legislation, regulations or certification requirements may require additional expense, restrict commercial flexibility and business strategies or introduce As part of the Elster disposal, a number Due diligence processes during the acquisition stage additional liabilities for the Group or Directors.
For example, the Groups operations are subject to anti-bribery of legal and regulatory provisions seek to identify legal, regulatory and environmental risks.
and anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, competition, anti-trust and trade compliance laws and regulations.
were transferred, together with their At the business level, controls are in place to prevent Failure to comply with certain regulations may result in significant financial penalties, debarment from corresponding actual or contingent such risks from crystallising.
government contracts and or reputational damage and impact our business strategy.
Any environmental risks that crystallise are subject to mitigation by specialist consultants engaged for this purpose.
External consultants assist the Group in complying with new and emerging environmental regulations.
Insurance cover mitigates certain levels of risk.
Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 33 Risk Strategic Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Responsibility trend Trend commentary priorities Operational risk Economic and political The Group operates, through manufacturing and or sales facilities, in numerous countries and is affected by Regular monitoring of order books and other leading Executive The fall in oil prices has resulted in a Buy 1 global economic conditions.
Melrose Industries PLC Strategic Report 34 Annual Report 2015 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Strategic Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Responsibility trend Trend commentary priorities Compliance and ethical risk continued Information security Information security and cyber threats are currently a priority across all industries and remain Management is working with information security Executive In response to the increased Buy 1 and cyber threat a key UK Government agenda item.
consultants to better understand the extent to which the management sophistication of information security Improve Group is exposed to cyber security risk and to ensure and cyber threats, the Group has worked, Like many businesses, Melrose recognises that the Group may have a potential exposure appropriate mitigations are in place.
and continues to work, with external Sell in this area.
consultants to implement a Group-wide Management has developed an information security strategy to aid the prevention, identification strategy to mitigate the Groups exposure to cyber risk.
and mitigation of any threats.
This strategy, which follows the UK Governments recommended steps to cyber security, covers the following security areas: network security: malware protection: active monitoring of information systems and networks: user education and awareness: home and mobile working: incident management: maintaining a secure configuration of information systems: removable media controls: and managing user privileges.
Financial risk Foreign exchange Due to the global nature of operations and volatility in the foreign exchange market, exchange rate fluctuations The Group policy is to protect against the majority of Executive Consideration for the Elster disposal was Buy 1 have and could continue to have a material impact on the reported results of the Group.
foreign exchange risk which affects cash, by hedging management provided in Sterling.
For repayments of the Improve such risks with financial instruments.
Groups Euro and US Dollar denominated The Group is exposed to three types of currency risk: transaction risk, translation risk and risk that when a facilities, which were predominantly used Sell Protection against specific transaction risks is taken business that is predominantly based in a foreign currency is sold, it is sold in that foreign currency.
The Groups to finance Elster operations, exchange by the Board on a case-by-case basis.
reported results will fluctuate as average exchange rates change.
The Groups reported net assets will fluctuate rate risk was mitigated by entering into as the year-end exchange rate changes.
a contingent foreign exchange trade upon the signing of the disposal agreement, which matured only upon completion.
Potential acquisition targets are analysed for their transactional and translational exposures.
Pensions Any shortfall in the Groups pension schemes may require additional funding.
Following the disposal of the The Groups key funded pension plans are now closed Executive As part of the Elster disposal, Melrose Buy 1 Elster business, through which the Group also disposed of the FKI UK and McKechnie UK defined benefit to new entrants and future service accrual.
Long-term management divested its responsibility for the FKI UK Improve pension plans, the Group has retained the Brush UK and US plans.
As at 31December 2015, these Brush funding arrangements are agreed with the plans and and McKechnie UK defined benefit plans had a net liability of 17.2 million on an accounting basis.
Changes in discount rates, inflation, asset reviewed following completion of actuarial valuations.
pension plans, as well as all Elster-related Sell values or mortality assumptions could lead to a materially-higher deficit.
For example, the cost of a buyout pension obligations.
As at the date of Active management of pension plan assets.
on a discontinued basis uses more conservative assumptions and is likely to be significantly higher than the the Elster disposal, such plans had a net accounting deficit.
Alternatively, if the plans are managed on an ongoing basis, there is a risk that the plans deficit of 112 million and gross liabilities assets, such as investments in equity and debt securities, will not be sufficient to cover the value of the of 849 million.
retirement benefits to be provided under the plans.
The implications of a higher pension deficit include a direct impact on valuation, credit rating and potential additional funding requirements at subsequent triennial reviews.
In the event of a major disposal that generates significant cash proceeds which are returned to the shareholders, the Group may be required to make additional cash payments to the plans or provide additional security.
Liquidity The Group had no external debt as at 31December 2015.
Ensure the Company has adequate resources to meet Executive Following the sale of Elster, Melrose Buy 1 its liabilities by reviewing its quarterly forecasts, ensuring management is debt free, with access to a 200 million The ability to raise debt or to refinance existing borrowings in the bank or capital markets is dependent on Improve there is sufficient headroom within committed bank multi-currency revolving credit facility, market conditions and the proper functioning of financial markets.
Furthermore, in line with the Groups strategy, facilities to cope with market volatility.
Should circumstances Sell investment is made in the businesses capital expenditure in excess of depreciation and there is a requirement change and, in line with the Groups to assess liquidity and headroom when new businesses are acquired.
In addition, the Group may be unable to strategy, the Group requires access to refinance its debt when it falls due.
further funding, it is anticipated that funding shall remain accessible from financial institutions or from the market by means of a rights issue.
Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 35 Risk Strategic Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Responsibility trend Trend commentary priorities Compliance and ethical risk continued Information security Information security and cyber threats are currently a priority across all industries and remain Management is working with information security Executive In response to the increased Buy 1 and cyber threat a key UK Government agenda item.
