Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 RISKS and uncertainties MERLIN CONTINUES TO EXERCISE A PROACTIVE APPROACH TO THE MANAGEMENT OF POTENTIAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES WHICH COULD AFFECT THE HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY OF GUESTS, STAFF OR OUR ANIMALS OR HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUPS BUSINESS PERFORMANCE, DELIVERY OF ITS STRATEGY OR THE INTEGRITY OF ITS FINANCIAL REPORTING.
IT IS AN INTEGRATED BOTTOM UP AND TOP DOWN APPROACH, WITH BUSINESS RISKS IDENTIFIED, EVALUATED, CONTROLLED AND MONITORED BY BOTH OUR ATTRACTION AND CORPORATE MANAGEMENT TEAMS, AND OVERSEEN BY THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES.
EMPHASIS IS PLACED ON IDENTIFYING NEW RISKS THAT MAY AFFECT MERLIN IN THE FUTURE.
In September 2014, new or revised obligations were introduced by Merlins strategic business planning and risk management the Financial Reporting Council in connection with the assessment processes had historically gone some way to meeting these of risk management and internal controls by the Board.
The most objectives and were extended in 2015 to meet the notable of the changes were those that related to: obligations fully.
The ongoing monitoring, review, assessment and reporting of risk management and internal control effectiveness: and  The statement required from the Directors that they have Merlin separates risk and the management thereof into three a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to components.
The Board retains overall responsibility for these continue in operation over a specified assessment components, appointing specific Committees to oversee the period the Viability Statement.
management of the risks in each category as follows: Health, safety and security risk - overseen by the Health, Safety and Security HSS Committee which comprises both Board members and senior management representatives.
Our HSS Committee report on pages 66 to 69 provides more details Merlin continues to of our approach to HSS governance, management and assurance.
exercise a proactive approach Commercial and strategic risk - overseen by the Groups to the management of Executive Committee a non-Board committee, the Commercial and Strategic Risk Management Committee potential risks and CSRMC comprises members of the Executive Committee uncertainties and is chaired by the CFO a full Board member with minutes of the quarterly meetings provided to the Non-executive Board members and a verbal update to the Board provided by the Chairman.
Annually, a detailed report of the discussions and output of the Committee is provided to the Board.
Financial process risk - overseen by the Audit Committee which comprises Non-executive members of the Board.
40 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 RISKS and uncertainties Health, safetyandsecurity HSS risk Risk appetite We are continually working to identify and implement new In fulfilling the Groups strategy, proportionate and considered safety improvements and reduce risks.
Our goal is to provide and commercial risks are taken to maximise profitable growth and maintain the highest practical health, safety and security standards sustainable returns for its investors.
The amount of risk the Group across Merlins portfolio.
We operate a positive and proactive is willing to take to achieve such commercial success must never safety culture with an approach that complies with legislation, compromise the health, safety and security of guests, employees, meets or exceeds industry standards and above all safeguards contractors, animals or other visitors and be aligned with the our guests, employees, visitors and contractors within our care.
Groups policies on sustainability and the environment.
Merlins Health, Safety and Environmental Management System To ensure there is effective governance, monitoring and provides a systematic approach that combines appropriate measurement of the Groups appetite for risk, both quantitative organisational structure, management commitment, planning, and qualitative measures are used.
Quantitative measures include policies, processes, monitoring, incident reporting, auditing, defined financial and non-financial targets, whereas, qualitative reviewing, effective communications, and software that measures consider items such as reputational impact, effectively controls risk and delivers proactive maintenance management effort or compliance with law and regulation.
procedures plus robust systems of work.
In assessing the significant risks the Group faces, the risk appetite Managers at every level are responsible for HSS matters, parameters set by the Board fall into two distinct categories: supported by functional HSS specialists who provide advice and Compliance risk - this covers the requirement to comply with help with all aspects of risk.
Merlins managers are integral to the legislative or regulatory requirements in all territories where effective planning, organisation, control, monitoring and review the Group operates.
It includes, but is not limited to, ride of preventative and protective measures.
safety, accounting practices or fraud and bribery, as well as ensuring compliance with the Groups values and ethical  principles.
In these circumstances the Board is risk averse and The management of commercial and strategic risk is embedded does not countenance any breaches in compliance obligations.
across the Group through a regular cycle of strategic and Commercial risk - this covers the willing acceptance of a risk operational reviews completed at attraction, regional and to earn a commercial reward.
The Group manages this type divisional levels.
Each attraction and central function is required of risk by employing an appropriate analysis of threats and to perform a full risk assessment workshop on an annual basis.
opportunities and structured review processes, independent The purpose of this process is to review any material changes expert opinions and decision-making authority levels.
Factors in the external commercial landscape and to assess whether such as the scale of possible commercial upside, the potential recent trading trends may require an alternative risk management market size, the quantum of downside risk and timescales approach.
These annual assessments are incorporated into the involved may all be relevant to commercial risk decisions.
commercial and strategic section of the risk register for each Operating Group and are aggregated at Group level.
Risk management Each attraction and central function maintains a risk register, being During the year the CSRMC participated in an externally facilitated a record of the material risks it faces categorised into the three workshop to consider whether any new or emerging industry or components of risk identified above.
The registers include a rating macro risks ought to be added as key focus areas in 2016.
Risks of each risk, based on an assessment of likelihood and impact that were added as a result of this process include the fast after taking into account existing mitigating control measures changing technological developments the industry is undergoing.
including front end processes, management oversight and independent review.
Where this assessment indicates a The CSRMC also has oversight responsibility for the treatment high residual risk, additional actions are considered to further of animals in our care.
To ensure that we meet the high standards mitigate the risk.
Risk registers provide the basis for ongoing risk our stakeholders expect, the Group has a team dedicated to management and all are formally reviewed at least once a year.
This team of subject matter This review feeds into the annual strategic business planning cycle.
experts is responsible for ensuring that the Group behaves in an ethical way in the sourcing, transportation, care and display of In addition to the ongoing risk management processes, periodic animals.
The team works across the globe with regulatory bodies, detailed reviews of specific risk issues are also undertaken.
This review process, together with structured audit programmes vets and conservationists to develop programmes that support covering both financial processes and health, safety and security breeding rather than collection from the wild, delivering high controls across the Group, allow the Board to gain assurance quality educational content and identifying improvements in over the robustness of risk management systems.
the already high standards we set for animal care.
41 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 RISKS and uncertainties Financialprocessrisk Mitigations in place supporting the management of the risk to Financial processes within the Group are led and co-ordinated a net risk position are also described for each principal risk by the central finance function.
To manage financial process risks and uncertainty.
we continually assess external regulatory changes, the quality and timeliness of internal financial reporting and other financial risk ViabilityStatement areas such as taxation and treasury.
Key issues are reviewed on In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate a quarterly basis by a senior finance team within Merlin and Governance Code 2014, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a four year period, taking into account the reported to the Audit Committee.
Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks documented on pages 43 to 45.
Based on this assessment, Further assurance is gained from both the internal and external the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation audit processes.
In 2015 the internal audit function, based on an that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its annual assessment of risk, provided audit coverage of material liabilities as they fall due over the period until December 2019. central functions and attractions representing approximately 60% of attraction generated revenue, as well as central revenue The Groups strategic planning process occurs annually on a generating functions, such as e-commerce and call centres.
These rolling basis, in the middle of the year, covering the current activities seek to identify procedural weaknesses and provide a year plus four further years.
Accordingly the Directors have structure to assess and report on managements response.
The determined that a four year period to December 2019 is an Group is also subject to external audit.
Matters arising from appropriate period over which to provide its Viability Statement.
both audit functions are reported to the Audit Committee.
The strategic plan considers all elements of the Groups growth  strategy.
It focuses on capital investment in the existing estate, The Group has in place disaster recovery plans incorporating where the review period matches or is in excess of the preescalation procedures and crisis management protocols.
They determined capital investment cycles: new business development are regularly updated.
including the roll out of Midway attractions and the development of committed new LEGOLAND parks: and the expansion of More broadly, business continuity plans exist to allow attractions our accommodation portfolio.
The Group also considers strategic to recover performance in the event of various adverse incidents.
acquisition opportunities and other uncommitted potential major Examples of such incidents could include prolonged power failure, capital projects within the plan period to assess the availability major IT failure or life support system failure within a SEA LIFE of appropriate funding.
It is recognised that only limited contingency planning can be made against natural disasters such as major flooding or The Board also carried out a robust assessment of the principal earthquakes, however the Groups geographic diversity provides risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its protection against the financial impact of such occurrences.
growth drivers, future performance, solvency or liquidity as well as the Groups approach to risk management as set out in this The Group has performed a review of these business continuity Strategic Report.
The outputs from these reviews are then processes following the accident at Alton Towers in line with its used to perform liquidity and debt covenant headroom analysis, standard response protocols.
Findings from this review will be including the downside sensitivity review based on principal risks.
While the review has considered all the principal risks identified Principalrisks by the Group, severe but plausible events were focused on for The tables on the following pages highlight the main risks that enhanced stress testing.
The results take into account the controls have been identified through the Groups risk assessment implemented by the Group as well as the availability and likely processes and that have the potential to impact on the effectiveness of specific mitigating actions that could be taken to strategic development of the Group.
avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the identified underlying risks.
The diversification of the Groups attractions The risk committees consider both gross and net risk, where helps minimise the risk of serious business interruption for many gross risk reflects the risk exposure and risk landscape before of its principal risks, for example extreme weather conditions or considering the mitigations in place, and net risk reflects the changing economic and political environments.
Also, our ability to residual risk after mitigations.
The gross risk movement from flex the cost base and the ability to rephase or delay capital prior year for each principal risk and uncertainty has been investment protects our viability in the face of macro events assessed and is presented as follows: or uncertainty not in the Groups control.
Stable No change in gross risk exposure Increasing Increased gross risk exposure Reduced Reduced gross risk exposure 42 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 RISKS and uncertainties Gross Description risktrend Mitigatingfactors Health, safetyandsecurity HSS Ride and Health and safety is one of Merlins Stable Proactive ownership of HSS risks by line management attractions Key Performance Indicators.
based on the provision and adoption of HSS policies, safety Codes of Practice and guidance notes.
A serious accident to a guest or staff member Competent and trained operational and engineering on a ride or at an attraction could cause harm staff, backed up by professional HSS teams supporting, to an individual and impact confidence in the monitoring and inspecting attractions.
Utilisation of HSS systems to support the management of risks with annual risk register and action planning processes by each attraction.
Regular internal and annual independent external auditing regimes.
Regular review of performance as well as key policies and procedures.
Contractor The delivery of new attractions and experiences Stable Contractor selection and approval procedures.
management often involve work by sub-contractors.
Poor Major contracts are managed by qualified project workmanship or unreliable delivery could impact managers and are subject to strict tendering processes.
the Groups safety and growth expectations.
Contractor performance is monitored by in-house project management teams.
Terrorism A terrorist attack on, or sabotage of, a ride or Increasing Detailed security protocols.
attraction could cause harm to one or more Regularly tested major incident management plans.
individuals, as well as impacting guest confidence.
Co-operation with local and national security forces.
A terrorist attack on a city in which the Group Availability of appropriate insurance cover.
operates could impact on peoples confidence to visit that city.
Pandemic A material macro event such as the spread of a Increasing Regularly tested major incident management plans.
worldwide pandemic could impact visitation in one or more of the Groups geographies.
Infrastructure The failure of one of the Groups buildings or Stable External independent review processes.
safety other structural elements, through fire, flood, Competent and trained operational and engineering staff, power failure, substandard build quality or monitoring and inspecting facilities in accordance with a degradation, could cause harm to an individual planned maintenance and inspection regime.
This could lead to an adverse impact on the publics confidence in the Groups brands.
43 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 RISKS and uncertainties Gross Description risktrend Mitigatingfactors  Customer Customer satisfaction is one of Merlins Stable Regular and detailed customer feedback collected at every satisfaction Key Performance Indicators.
Data analysed against challenging satisfaction targets and actions taken accordingly.
A downturn in customer enjoyment of our Ongoing investment in our attractions continually attractions could impact repeat visitation.
refreshes the experiences for customers.
Similarly subsequent adverse social media Monitoring public and social media for concerns in order feedback could adversely affect customer to take any requisite action.
People Staff engagement is one of Merlins Increasing Personal development plans in place at all levels of the availability and Key Performance Indicators.
business to encourage long term employment stability.
expertise Succession planning processes embedded across the Merlin is a people business.
The increasing cost of Group and proactively managed.
attracting and retaining motivated, customer Annual employee survey to monitor employee service orientated staff could impact guest engagement and to identify opportunities to develop satisfaction and future expansion.
Foreign Changes in exchange rates can have a positive or Stable Incr eased hedging as a result of further diversification of exchange rates adverse impact on inbound tourism.
If exchange the Groups operations globally.
impacting rates work against a country in which the Group Ability to proportionally upweight marketing activity international generates a high proportion of its revenue this towards either domestic or international audiences tourism can adversely impact visitation.
Animal welfare Growth would be impacted if animals were lost Stable External Zoo Licence audits ensure appropriate to disease or other welfare issues.
Internal ethics committee and the Merlin Animal Welfare and Development team ensure the ethical treatment of animals in our care.
Availability and The Midway and LEGOLAND parks growth Stable Experienced site search and business development teams, delivery of new strategy is predicated on the availability of working several years in advance to maintain a strong sites and suitable sites.
A decline in the pipeline of pipeline of expansion opportunities.
attractions suitable and economically viable sites could Sites regularly update their development masterplans and inhibit this growth.
teams work closely on fostering links with local communities and planning authorities.
Planning permission is often required for The introduction of a dedicated New Openings team in new rides and attractions so growth could 2015 expands the Groups resources to support its roll be impacted if planning permission could out strategy.
Competition Competition for leisure time and new entrants to Stable Diversification to reduce reliance on individual the market could reduce opportunities for growth.
Ongoing investment in sites to ensure continued appeal to visitors.
IT robustness, The Group has grown in the past both organically Increasing IT strategy focused on ensuring the long term stability of technological and through acquisition and as a consequence has operating systems and data security, whilst keeping pace developments varied IT systems across its portfolio.
with the changing face of consumer IT expectations.
and cyber Increasing resilience of the Groups IT stability and security Such systems and associated technical security through an expanded use of secured hosting partners and developments necessary to meet consumer penetration testing regimes.
expectations are integral to the success of the Further measures put in place to mitigate the increasing Groups operations and financial reporting integrity.
threat of cyber security risk.
The Group remains conscious of the increasing threat of cybercrime and speed by which new technology can act as a business interrupter.
Weather Individual attraction performance can be Stable Increased hedging as the proportion of revenue generated seasonality affected by particularly adverse weather at from Asia Pacific and North America regions increases.
Healthy mix of indoor and outdoor attractions.
Strategy to drive an increased percentage of pre-booked business.
44 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 RISKS and uncertainties Gross Description risktrend Mitigatingfactors Financialprocess Anti-bribery and An incident of bribery or corruption could lead Stable Global fraud and bribery training programme in place corruption to prosecution and fines and could cause alongside a fraud policy sign off for all staff.
reputational damage to the Company.
Robust financial and contractual controls with regard to procurement activities.
Internal audit monitors purchasing Merlins business model is lower risk relative to processes on a rotational basis.
other industries as the majority of transactions A separate profit protection team monitors for theft or are of low value and to individual customers.
other criminal activity across the Group and ensures best Merlin has a well embedded culture across the practice for protection is shared between sites.
Group in which fraud and bribery at any level A whistleblowing policy is in place together with an are not tolerated.
Merlin does however operate independently operated employee hotline.
globally and increasingly within territories with a historically higher propensity to bribery and corruption.
Liquidity Many of Merlins businesses are seasonal in Reducing The Group has a 300 million multi-currency revolving Cash flow risk nature, generating cash in peak trading periods credit facility to assist with seasonal cash flow and utilising cash out of season, when capital requirements as necessary.
investments are undertaken and fixed costs Short term cash flow forecasts are updated frequently in continue to be incurred.
order to ensure liquidity for business operations on an ongoing basis.
Merlins growth plans include both the roll out Forecasts cover at least four years and are reviewed of existing Midway and LEGOLAND brands, as regularly to ensure sufficient financial headroom exists well as strategic acquisitions when appropriate and to meet the covenant tests set out in the Groups opportunities present themselves.
needs to have sufficient cash to fund Merlin maintains strong relationships with a number of these activities.
lenders and keeps the debt markets under review in Lack of liquidity and changes to the global credit order to ensure that funding is obtained at the right time market could impact the Groups long term and at the right price to ensure the availability of funds ability to meet current growth targets.
to meet its strategic growth plans.
The continued expansion of the Group outside of Northern Europe reduces the exposure to any one peak trading period.
Interest In addition to equity, Merlin continues to finance Stable Interest rate swap arrangements in place to fix the rate risk its operations through cash flow and long term majority of the debt, all of which are hedge accounted.
As a significant amount of the debt is at floating rates it is exposed to interest rate fluctuations which could impact on financial performance.
Foreign Merlin generates its main profits in Sterling, Increasing The Group presents constant currency figures where exchange Euros and US Dollars and has long term debt in appropriate to show the underlying results of the translation risk these currencies.
Group excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate translation differences.
Merlin reports its results in Sterling and is Treasury policies in place and reviewed annually therefore subject to translation risk from with regular reviews of currency exposures.
exchange rate fluctuations when reporting its Broad match of borrowings in the currencies consolidated results.
Currency exposures hedged where appropriate.
Credit risk Merlin has limited credit risk with its customers, Stable Counterparty credit ratings are regularly monitored and the vast majority of whom pay in advance or at there is no significant concentration of credit risk with the time of their visit.
Merlin has relationships with a number of banks and is therefore inherently exposed to some credit risk.
