ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Risk Management Structure Principal Risks Our internal audit programme of activity focuses on ensuring that The Group recognises that the effective management of risk is assurance is provided over the controls that mitigate the risks important in achieving our Strategic Objectives.
A Group risk review process is in place which identifies both the Our risk management process categorises our principal risks into risks and the mitigating actions required to ensure that all risks are Strategic, Financial, People and Operational.
controlled to an acceptable level as defined in the Groups Risk Appetite statement.
Within this process we assess all risks that could have a significant impact on the ability of the business to deliver its short-term plans The process of risk management is ongoing throughout our and medium and long-term strategy.
business forming part of our strategy, our business plans and the delivery of our daily activity.
The Executive Board and the Board continue to focus on Strategic, People and Financial risks.
For these we disclose KPIs which we It is supported by operational risk registers that are maintained use to monitor the risk impact, and the rewards and incentives we locally at country and process level and consolidated twice a apply to ensure effective management.
year with a formal review by the Executive Board and the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
See strategic framework on page 5.
In the intervening periods the risks associated with changes in either the external environment or as a result of internal proposals Our operational risks are those that the Executive Board have are discussed as part of our ongoing business reviews and are agreed can be managed by our people on a day-to-day basis.
These are included within our risk registers and are reviewed by the Board on an exceptions basis, with the exception of data security We have also established compliance teams within our Group cyber risk which has a more prominent position in the reviews.
Information Systems team, who focus on IT risks and security, together with regional revenue recognition compliance teams who Our risk evaluation includes matters relating to all our key ensure accurate reporting of our revenue worldwide.
stakeholders and encompasses considerations of governance, social, environmental and legal requirements.
Our Risk and Control Framework Risk and Control Framework Controls Functions Review Business Reviews Internal Control Checklists Policies and Procedures Executive Revenue Compliance Board Risk Management Management Board Audit Committee Teams Group Financial Control IT Security Team Risk Registers Audit Reports Internal Audit Quarterly Updates Group Governance Framework 35 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 People development Attraction and retention Shift in business model Delivery of operational efficiencies Strategic People Risk Categories Technology Key systems vendors Financial Operational IT Transformation and change Data Management PageGroups brands reputation Macro-economic Fiscal and legal compliance and contracts exposure Financial management and control Foreign exchange translation risk and promoting our people from within the business, ensuring Risk Appetite consistency of model and business culture across the Group.
Recruitment is inherently cyclical and provides limited forward We maintain a strong sales driven, meritocratic culture with a visibility.
This makes it sensitive to the economic environment and commitment to operating in an ethical, legal and sustainable thus financially volatile creating a higher risk environment.
PageGroup operates in this environment with a low risk appetite, We will always operate a conservative financial position with a seeking to mitigate its strategic risks, maintain a strong financial strong balance sheet, reflecting the degree of operational gearing position and only taking the operational risks it has the experience inherent in the business.
This measured approach to taking risk ensures we are best Our growth model is organic, rolling out the proven disciplines for placed for success globally.
brands to a wide geographic spread.
We drive this by developing 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Risk level 1.
People attraction, development and retention 5.
Information systems technology and key systems vendors 6.
Financial management and control PageGroup Actual Further planned Risk appetite range Net Risk assessment improvements 36 PB
