ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Financial Risks Actions to Mitigate Risk Macro-economic exposure We have diversified our business by expanding We continue to balance our permanent and geographically, by increasing the number of temporary staff in line with the ratio of our Recruitment activity is driven largely by disciplines we support, and by establishing permanent to temporary business in each economic cycles and the levels of business three brands to address the different levels of of the markets in which we operate.
Businesses are less likely to need the recruitment market: the clerical professional temporary business tends to be more resilient new hires and employees are less likely to sector: the qualified professional market: and in times of economic downturn.
move jobs when they do not have confidence the executive search sector.
in the market so leading to reduced We maintain a relatively low fixed cost base recruitment activity.
Our strategy recognises large high potential which allows the Group to scale up and down markets in which we operate, principally according to the economic environment.
Our A substantial proportion of the Groups profit Germany, Greater China, Latin America, South information systems model is service based arises from fees that are contingent upon the East Asia and the US, where we believe it and we have centralised support activities successful placement of a candidate in a is appropriate to continue to invest through at a Group and Regional level to ensure we position.
If the client cancels the assignment at the economic cycles for the long-term.
This benefit from the efficiency of scale and standard any stage in the process, the Group receives investment is principally in our people in these processes where possible.
areas and can be offset by balancing against costs in other regions where we seek to drive further efficiencies.
Foreign exchange translation risk The Group does not actively attempt to hedge The Group does not have material exposure the exposure from translation risk as this is a to foreign denominated monetary assets and The majority of the Groups operating profit reporting risk only and not an operational risk.
is derived from operations outside of the UK, In 2015 the Company entered into hedges to so material changes in the strength of Sterling Note 21 of the financial statements includes cover its investment in foreign entities in the US against the main functional currencies could a sensitivity analysis showing the effect of a and Canada.
have an adverse effect on the Groups reported 10% strengthening of Sterling against other key Sterling profits in the financial statements.
main functional currencies in addition to Sterling are the Euro, Australian Dollar, Swiss Franc, Chinese Renminbi and Singapore Dollar.
Strategic Risks Shift in business model We actively monitor developments in new Our highly trained and often specialised technologies and their use in the recruitment consultants maintain an extensive qualified The emergence of new technology sector, and we have a pro-active social media candidate database which we use to resource platforms including, for example, social media, strategy.
for our clients at an overall cost that they may lead to increased competition and cannot match.
We partner with the large providers, such as pressure on margins which may adversely LinkedIn and Facebook, to ensure that we We have established an Innovations Group affect the Groups results if it is unable to use this form of media to enhance our value comprising senior management who focus on respond effectively.
All consultants are trained in developments in the marketplace.
utilising the benefits of social media in their day-to-day activity.
Our systems strategy will ensure IT is delivered Our back of fice support activity covering IT, Delivery of operational efficiencies on a service model managed by a Global IT Finance, HR and Marketing will be provided via assessed under systems transformation capability which not only ensures an efficient shared service centres to ensure we maximise and Change Risk Appetite service provision but one which is highly our opportunities for process standardisation As our business grows we may be unable to resilient and scalable.
and gain the benefits of scale.
support our front end activities in an efficient and effective manner.
37 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Operational Risks Actions to Mitigate Risk Our core operating systems are governed on We have in place disaster recovery plans for Information Systems Technology a global basis but are regionally based.
We each of our services at global and regional Our systems are an integral part of our recognise the need to ensure best practice is levels which provide a level of service agreed operations.
Loss of systems capability would applied throughout the Group and therefore with the business in the event of a disaster.
have a high impact on our performance our approach is to ensure common platforms, We are in the process of migrating our services impacting the quality of service we provide standards and processes are being applied.
to a cloud-based infrastructure which will to clients and candidates and our ability to Within regions we have developed highly further enhance resilience and our disaster deliver our financial performance.
We have a dedicated security team who ensure our systems are protected from unauthorised access.
This includes ensuring appropriate multi-layered protection at network and local levels and regular monitoring and testing of our capabilities.
Information Systems Key systems We select vendors through a robust vendor We have in place service delivery contracts selection process which ensures those chosen with our key vendors which include levels vendors have the ongoing capability to support our of resilience appropriate to the nature of Our move to the delivery of IT as a flexible business requirements effectively.
service increases our reliance on third party reviewed and managed on an ongoing basis Our service roll-out strategy is to fully pilot new vendors for service delivery.
Should one of through the services delivery team.
services to ensure they operate effectively and these vendors fail we are at risk of a service achieve the benefits planned before they are disruption.
Assessed under technology in our risk appetite System Transformation and change We have successfully rolled-out our Page W e have established a dedicated Group Recruitment System to the majority of the Programme Management Office which The Group is in the process of implementing Group.
The next stage in the programme is co-ordinates the delivery of Group-wide a new suite of IT applications.
This has now to ensure the business is deriving the benefits projects and ensures appropriate prioritisation been successfully delivered to c. 85% of our from the enhanced capability and common of activity through regular reporting into regional users.
We have a working application suitable platforms.
for our business which will deliver benefits on a global basis.
There are still some residual risks around timing.
Data security W e have comprehensive data protection The Board reviews data security on a regular policies and procedures in place for the basis and receives updates on the status of Confidential, sensitive and personal data is held management of confidential, sensitive and our security activity and statistics on attempted across the Group.
Failure to secure and handle personal data.
data breaches, both internal and external.
this data properly could expose the Group to loss of business, financial penalties and or Security vulnerability is assessed as part of reputational damage.
our IT security strategy and the remediation of identified risks and alerts is tracked.
Regular security assurance checks take place across all regions and penetration testing is undertaken by specialist third parties.
Fiscal and legal compliance The Company Secretary and local legal and The Group has central tax and treasury compliance teams are advised by leading functions, which manages the Groups cash The Group operates in a large number of legal external advisers, as required, in regard to position and tax compliance.
jurisdictions that have varying legal, tax and changes in legislation that affect the Groups compliance requirements.
Any non-compliance The Group tax function regularly monitors business, including employment, legislation, with client contract requirements and legislation transfer pricing requirements and developments tax and corporate governance.
or regulatory requirements could have an to ensure that appropriate actions are being adverse effect on the Groups brands or Our staff receive induction training and regular taken and appropriate documentation is financial results.
updates regarding the Groups policies and being maintained to meet local reporting and procedures and compliance with relevant compliance requirements.
legislation covering for example, discrimination The Group holds all normal business insurance legislation, anti-bribery and corruption and cover including employers liability, public pre-employment checks.
liability and professional indemnity insurance.
Contracts include clauses to ensure the Groups rights are protected.
38 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Operational Risks Actions to Mitigate Risk PageGroups brands and reputation W e have comprehensive policies for key areas Our marketing strategy recognises the need including social media, data protection and to engage with candidates and clients using Our brands are material assets of the Group information security.
the latest media available in a way that reflects and maintaining their reputation is key to changing behaviours.
We conduct ongoing continued success.
W e actively monitor media to identify where surveys of clients and candidates to ensure there are unusually high references to the In the short term any event that could cause that we understand their requirements and PageGroup, Michael Page, Page Personnel reputational damage is a risk to the Group, can adapt our processes and procedures and Page Executive names.
We have a clear such as a failure to comply with legislation, or accordingly.
escalation reporting path so that any potential other regulatory requirements, or confidential incidents can be managed effectively.
We train our consultants to effectively use new data lost or stolen.
Use of new social media media making the channels available to them network sites has increased the speed of W e are supported by external advisers who as part of their day-to-day activity.
communication and the reach, increasing the provide ongoing advice on the protection and impact of an incident.
We have a programme of activity which ensures that we effectively communicate the In the medium to longer term, a lack of Page brands, keeping awareness high awareness of the Group brands, or a amongst both current and potential clients deterioration in the quality of service we and candidates.
provide to both clients and candidates, could have a significant impact.
The Gr oup has financial policies and procedures Monthly management information is pr oduced Financial management and control that support effective financial management and and reconciled which facilitates regular Failure to maintain adequate financial and financial control and reporting.
management processes and controls could The Finance structur e mirrors and Ther e are compliance teams located in lead to poor quality management decisions, supports the local, regional and Group each region which ensure revenues are resulting in the Group not achieving its management structure.
financial targets or in errors in the Groups financial reporting.
The Gr oup operates regional share or service centres which, as well as driving efficiencies, enable more effective control of activities.
People Actions to Mitigate Risk People attraction, development We have a well established appraisal process The Gr oup targets its recruitment process to and retention applied throughout the organisation which attract and employ high quality individuals.
reviews performance against objectives The Groups strategy of organic growth, with W e are committed to a competitive pay and supported by personal development plans.
nearly all senior operational positions being benefits structure and use benchmarking to filled from within, relies on its ability to develop We make significant investments in employees ensure we remain competitive.
We incorporate high performing individuals.
training and development across the a performance-led culture with bonus organisation including the opportunity for representing a proportion of pay.
This bonus The failure to attract and retain employees international career development supported by structure is based on team profitability which with the right skill set, particularly the a global mobility policy.
Training is aligned at has been shown to encourage the retention of resignation of key individuals, may adversely the consultant level, set at a high standard and high-performing individuals even in economic affect the Groups operational performance is both broad based and individually focused downturns.
with a 9 step modular programme to support W e make awards of share options linked to the leaders as they develop through the Group.
Groups financial performance to key senior Key high performing individuals are identified employees.
This provides a long-term retention and have progression plans recognising their incentive and aligns their motivations with those specific needs at different stages of their of our shareholders.
The Gr oup employment contracts contain We have a strong focus on succession planning protection in the event of an employee leaving, at all levels of the business with particular which at our senior level usually contain notice focus on the development of high performing periods and provisions relating to confidentiality individuals identified as future team leaders.
We continue to have a strategy of filling senior W e have a strong sense of pride in everything operational positions from within which is a key we do, with a firm belief in teamwork being core part of our retention strategy.
Our employees to the Group culture.
This drives determination observe high performers being rewarded with to succeed both individually and as a team, promotion and know that the Group provides increasing the motivation of our staff and sustainable career opportunities.
making their careers more rewarding.
Increased since prior year The Boards view of direction of travel of gross risk: Similar to prior year Lower than prior year 39 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Stress testing Going Concern The forecasting and budgeting process is also supported by In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial scenarios that encompass a broad range of potential outcomes.
statements for accounting purposes under International These scenarios are designed to explore the resilience of Accounting Standard 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, the Group to the potential impact of the significant risks as the Directors have considered the business activities of the set out on page 37 to 39, or a combination of those risks.
A Group as well as the principal risks and uncertainties as set out range of scenarios were considered, including cyber incidents, on pages 37 to 39.
Based on the Groups level of cash, the level disintermediation by way of innovation, changes in technology, of borrowing facilities available, the geographical and discipline movements in foreign exchange rates, and a global downturn, diversification, the limited concentration risk, as well as the amongst others.
We have assumed that, as in the past, as ability to manage the cost base, the Directors are satisfied that downside risks materialise our headcount will flex through natural the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational attrition in line with the drop of gross profit, such that the impact existence for the foreseeable future, being a period of at least 12 on operating profit is partially mitigated.
months from the date of approval of these accounts.
As a result, the going concern basis continues to be appropriate in preparing The scenarios were designed to be severe, but plausible and the financial statements.
were modelled individually and in combination.
In each case, the Group remained viable throughout.
However, it is considered extremely unlikely that this combination of events would ever Viability Statement occur.
Controls are also in place, where possible, to mitigate Assessing the prospects of the Company the impact of these scenarios and these are described on pages 37 to 39.
Our strategy and the key risks we face are described on pages 6 and 37 to 39.
A full business forecasting process is performed on Various events may also alert the Main and Executive Boards to a quarterly basis, with a full budget, for the following year created a potential threat to viability, for example, macro-events drive the during October and November, being presented to the Board in recruitment industry, a drop in GDP in a particular country may December.
The Board reviews the Groups strategy and approves lead to a reduction in gross profit growth rates.
Performance is then monitored by We consider that this stress-testing based assessment of the the Board through the review of monthly reports showing Groups prospects is reasonable in the circumstances given the comparisons of results against budget, quarterly forecasts and inherent uncertainty involved.
the prior year, with explanations provided for significant variances.
Discussion around strategy is undertaken by the Board in its Confirmation of longer-term viability normal course of business, as well as at an annual dedicated strategy day.
The Directors confirm that their assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group was robust.
We also prepare longer term projections which drive our strategic plan.
These are typically three years.
Our strategic plan provides Based upon the robust assessment of the principal risks and a clear vision for the Group, aligns the Group to one clear uncertainties facing the Company and the stress-testing based culture, provides clarity on investment priorities, branding, belief assessment of the Companys prospects, all of which are in achievable goals: and clarity on the goals for our financial vision.
described above, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet The period over which we confirm longer-term viability its liabilities as they fall due over the period to December 2018.
Within the context of the above, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has assessed the viability of the Group.
Given the inherent uncertainty involved, the period over which the Directors consider it possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Groups longer term viability is the three year period to December 2018.
This period, which represents the period used for strategic planning, has been selected as it is short enough to present the Board and, therefore, users of the annual report with a reasonable degree of confidence, whilst still providing an appropriate longer term outlook.
Whilst the Board has no reason to believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period, the Board has taken into account the short-term visibility inherent in a recruitment business with a permanent recruitment bias.
