Principal risks and uncertainties The Group, in common with all businesses, The Group recognized the inherent risks A full risk register has been developed for could be affected by risks that could have in relation to the integration of the TAG on-going evaluation and mitigation and the a material effect on its short and longer-term business.
It may encounter integration following are the other key risks, potential financial performance.
These risks could cause challenges and unexpected costs.
The impacts and mitigations that are relevant to actual results to differ materially from forecasts integration may take longer to achieve the Group as a provider of software products or historic results.
Where possible, the Group than planned.
In addition the Groups and associated services.
seeks to mitigate these risks through its management and resources may be diverted system of internal controls but this can away from its core business activities due Please also refer to the section on internal only provide reasonable assurance and not to personnel being required to assist in the controls within the corporate governance absolute assurance against material losses.
There is a risk that the report on pages 38 to 41. anticipated benefits arising from the growth With regard to the Groups objectives, opportunities, operational efficiencies and Principal risks for the Group have been the board and executive management team synergies may fail to materialize, or they may identified in the following four categories have identified and prioritized the key risks be materially lower than estimated which Products, Go to Market models, Competition and reviewed the controls in place for may have an adverse impact on the financial and Employees.
management to mitigate those risks.
The Group sought to mitigate these risks by putting in place On 20 November 2014 the Group detailed integration plans with a dedicated completed the acquisition of TAG, a integration team focused on monitoring transformational transaction for the Group.
Products Risk Potential impact Mitigation To remain successful the Group must If products do not meet the requirements In the year ended 30 April 2015 we ensure that its products continue to meet of customers they will seek alternative continued to improve the interaction the requirements of customers.
solutions, resulting in the loss of new between Product Management, Product Investment in research and innovation revenue opportunities and the cancellation Development and Sales and Marketing.
in product development is essential to of existing contracts.
Insufficient focus The Group has developed a structured meet customer and partner requirements on key research and development projects approach to managing its products, in order to maximize revenues and may damage the long-term growth which will be further enhanced during corporate performance.
The Group has prospects of the Group.
the year ended 30 April 2016. a large number of products, at differing stages of their life cycle.
The extent of During the year ended 30 April 2015 investment in each product set needs to the Group strengthened its product be managed and prioritized considering portfolio through the acquisition of TAG the expected future prospects.
with the addition of NetIQ, Attachmate, Novell and SUSE product portfolios.
All of the Groups products will be managed through the global product management and development organization, with a geographic Go to Market organization.
Fundamental to this approach is an analysis of the individual products, their markets, customers and growth potential.
The Micro Focus, NetIQ, Attachmate and Novell products will be managed as a portfolio under Micro Focus, with a defined strategy, target market and growth profile for each product.
Respecting the different characteristics of the Open Source market the SUSE product portfolio will be managed separately and dedicated resources will be focused on the development, customer care and sales and marketing.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 26 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Go to Market models Risk Potential impact Mitigation For the Group to succeed in meeting Poor execution of Go to Market plans Revenue plans are supported by a revenue and growth targets it requires may limit the success of the Group by range of measures to monitor and drive successful Go to Market models across targeting the wrong customers through improvements in Go to Market operating the full product portfolio, with effective the wrong channels and using the wrong models.
In addition to quarterly business strategies and plans to exploit channel product offerings.
reviews with all geographies and monthly opportunities and focus the sales force reviews with regional presidents, the on all types of customer categories.
In President of Sales for Micro Focus and addition, effective Go to Market models SUSE participate in their respective will be more successful if accompanied weekly management team meetings by compelling Micro Focus and SUSE to review sales performance and marketing programs.
Customer sales cycles are reviewed regularly and a bid review process is in place to monitor and maximize customer revenue opportunities.
In addition to sales performance reviews, marketing and product development programs are assessed regularly to optimize levels of qualified pipeline and ensure that marketing programs are supported by appropriate product offerings.
A series of measures are in place to focus the direction of the sales force towards a broad range of customer categories.
These measures include detailed bid management, tailored quota targets and robust pre-sales management.
In addition, marketing programs are in place and reviewed on an on-going basis to draw on differentiated and consistent PR plans across key geographies.
These are supported by targeted industry analyst relations to reach and raise Micro Focus and SUSE brand awareness through key marketplace influencers.
Brand building is also supported by a growing customer reference programs and online programs such as effective search engine optimization, use of social media and improved corporate websites.
In the year ended 30 April 2015 we continued with the internal sales certification program, to improve the level of expertise across our sales force.
In the year ended 30 April 2015 we continued with the Micro Focus Sales Academy, the initiative through which we hire graduate sales representatives to enhance our sales capability and train up new talent with the potential to progress within the sales organization.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Competition Risk Potential impact Mitigation Comprehensive information about the Failure to understand the competitive Group product plans contain analysis markets in which Micro Focus and SUSE landscape adequately and thereby identify of competitive threats and subscriptions operate is required for the Group to where competitive threats exist may to industry analyst firms are leveraged assess competitive risks effectively damage the successful sales of the to better understand market dynamics and to perform successfully.
In addition, customer contact programs are mined for competitive intelligence.
Employees Risk Potential impact Mitigation The retention and recruitment of Failure to retain and develop skill sets, The Group has policies in place to highly skilled and motivated employees, particularly in sales and research and help ensure that it is able to attract and at all levels of the Group, is critical development may hinder the Groups retain employees with the required skills.
to the success and future growth of sales and development plans.
Weak These policies include training, career the Group in all countries in which it organizational alignment and inadequate development and long-term financial currently operates.
Employees require incentivization may lead to poor incentives.
Leadership training schemes clear business objectives, and a well performance and instability.
are in place to support management communicated vision and values, for development and succession plans.
the Group to achieve alignment and Following the acquisition of TAG on a common sense of corporate purpose 20November 2014 a renewed vision among the workforce.
and corporate objectives was shared throughout the organization and continues to be reinforced through regular employee communications plans and performance reviews.
As well as the Micro Focus Sales Academy to attract new talent to the sales organization a Development Academy was launched during the year ended 30 April 2015, focused on addressing areas of potential medium to long-term skills shortages within the development organization.
Succession plans are being developed for key leadership positions within the Enlarged Group.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 28
