Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic Report 29 Our risks Like any other business, we are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, which are influenced by both internal and external factors, often outside our control.
In this section, we describe the principal risks that could have a material effect on the Groups ability to deliver against its strategy together with the controls and activities in place to mitigate such risks.
Risk factors Management of risk Risk assessment We provide information on the nature of In general, the geographical spread of Material risks are identified through each principal risk.
Not all potential risks the Group provides a natural hedge against a detailed bottom up approach as are listed below: some risks are excluded many of the principal risks identified on well as a holistic top down review.
because the Board considers that they are the following pages.
Our risk management The bottom up review encompasses not material to the Group as a whole.
Our activity is directed by the regional the identification, management and processes aim to provide reasonable, not operational heads and functional heads, monitoring of risks in each area of the absolute, assurance that the risks significant led by the Group Chief Executive Officer, business including the hotels and ensures to our business have been identified and and is monitored by the Audit & Risk that risk management controls are addressed.
Additionally, there may be risks Committee with assistance from the embedded in the businesses operations.
that are not reasonably foreseeable at the Internal Audit function as shown in the date of this report such that the Group diagram below.
Risk registers, which The top down review led by the can assess fully their potential impact map the nature of the risks relative to Audit & Risk Committee, supported on the business.
their likelihood of occurrence and severity by management, evaluates the Groups and associated trends, are compiled and operating environment with a particular The order in which risks are presented periodically updated.
Members of the focus on the cash flows of the Group below is not indicative of the relative executive management team are assigned for the three financial years ending 31 potential impact on the Group.
The responsibility for devising risk treatment December 2018.
Such evaluation also risks may, to varying degrees, impact plans to eliminate, minimise or transfer the includes sensitivity analysis based on a the Groups revenues, profits, net assets, relevant risks for which they are responsible, significant decline in hotel profit due to a financial and other resources and and they undertake regular reviews of the combination of the principal risks, as set reputation.
It is often difficult for managerisk register and progress with risk out on pages 31 to 33, materialising for ment to assess with accuracy the likely management plans.
The Board has overall a sustained period or failing to renew impact of an event on reputation, as any responsibility for risk management and debt facilities maturing in the period as damage often may be disproportionate for ensuring that the Groups risks are they fall due.
to the events actual financial impact.
Board of Directors Overall accountability for strategic risk management Audit & Risk Committee Oversight and challenge of the effectiveness of risk management and mitigating controls Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Internal Audit functional and regional operating heads Review of effectiveness of internal controls Operational accountability for management and control of risks and implementation of mitigation measures Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report 30 Our risks continued Review period VIABILITY STATEMENT The Directors have assessed the viability In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, of the Group over a variety of periods.
the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks Whilst the Directors have no reason to facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, believe the Group will not be viable over future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This assessment involved a review a longer period, given the inherent uncertainty involved, the period over of the prospects of the Group over the three year period to 31 December 2018 which the Directors consider it possible taking into account the Groups strategy and the Groups principal risks and to form a reasonable expectation as to how these are managed over this time period, as detailed above.
the Groups longer-term viability, is the three year period to 31 December 2018.
The Directors believe the three year period to be appropriate for the reasons This three-year period has been selected stated above.
The three year plan review is supported by regular Board briefings for several reasons.
provided by management and the discussion of any new initiatives undertaken by the Board in its normal course of business.
First, the three-year period is in line with the Groups rolling strategic and Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that financial planning.
Plans are reviewed the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities, as they by the Board on an annual basis: and fall due, over the period to 31 December 2018.
Second, the landscape of online competition has been changing rapidly and is likely to continue to change further in the foreseeable future.
It would be difficult to form a reasonable judgment of how the online marketplace will evolve beyond a period of three years.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic Report 31 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk and Potential Impact Mitigating Activities Reputation and brand protection Quality of service delivery Consistent delivery of service and product quality is vitally Generally the Group operates properties which it owns, and product important to creating and maintaining brand loyalty and value and therefore is able to exercise control over the service perception and influencing consumer preference.
Lack of and product quality of those hotels.
investment in the Groups assets or the removal of a significant For those hotels we own but do not operate, such as the number of rooms from inventory in order to complete needed Novotel New York Times Square, the Group asset manages refurbishment programmes could have a significant impact on those properties to ensure compliance with its service levels those factors and therefore on the revenues that hotels are able and contractual requirements.
As supply increases, particularly in our key gateway The Group continues to develop property specific asset cities, business may be lost to newer hotels and or rates may management plans which focus on the capital requirements have to be reduced to remain competitive.
of each property in terms of regular maintenance and product enhancement to help ensure the products remain In addition, management of third-party owned hotels under competitive.
Refurbishments are phased appropriately in management agreements, particularly in the Middle East and order to minimise the impact of those programmes China regions, and the use of joint ventures in the Middle East on operations, to the extent possible.
and other markets gives rise to the risk of non-performance on The Group currently endeavours to reinvest one-third the part of the hotel owners and joint venture partners, and the of its EBITDA into its hotel estate.
ability of the relevant hotels to deliver service and product quality The Group has in place brand and operating standards, to Group brand and operating standards, especially when the and regularly refreshes those, to provide for consistent strategic objectives of those parties are not fully aligned with service delivery and product quality among its hotels, those of the Group even if they are owned by third parties and or operated through joint ventures.
Management representatives are assigned to manage the relationships with joint venture partners and third party hotel owners.
Intellectual property rights Future growth and pricing power and the image and reputation In 2015 the Group allocated its hotels and brands into and brands of the Group in general will, in part, be dependent on the distinct collections and updated its brand and marketing recognition of the Groups brands and perception of the values standards to enhance and clarify its brand portfolio.
The ability of the group to protect its Substantial investment continues to be made in protecting intellectual property rights in those brands is instrumental in the Groups brands from misuse and infringement, by preventing them from deteriorating in value.
way of trade mark registration, enforcement of intellectual property rights and domain name protection.
The Group In addition, the proliferation of e-commerce and online sales utilises third party online brand monitoring and protection channels, whether through affiliates, online travel agencies, meta agencies to assist with the Groups enforcement activities.
search websites or otherwise, can give rise to brand confusion and further dilution if the Groups intellectual property is not used appropriately and in accordance with the Groups brand and marketing standards.
Increasing competition The hotel industry operates within an inherently cyclical The Groups flexible financial control and revenue marketplace where competition, both online and offline, management systems help it to control costs and achieve is increasing.
An increase in market room supply, without better yields in volatile trading conditions.
corresponding increases in demand, may lead to downward The Group continues to refresh its digital marketing pressure on rates, which in turn could negatively impact the strategy and invest in its e-commerce, customer relationship Groups performance.
management, revenue management and reservations systems in order to help increase rates, retain existing With regard to online competition, the Groups hotel rooms customers and generate new business.
are booked through a number of distribution channels, one A new advanced central reservations system was of which is the online travel agency OTA.
OTAs tend to have implemented in 2014, providing a platform for future higher commission rates than more traditional distribution enhancements.
Additionally, the Groups website and loyalty channels and are taking an increasing share of bookings across programme are in the process of being upgraded to help the sector.
Over time, consumers may develop loyalties to the improve brand recognition and drive more bookings through OTAs rather than to our brands.
These trends may impact our the Groups own, less costly distribution channels.
In addition, sharing economy platforms, such as Airbnb, may expand their market share and compete with more traditional business and leisure accommodations.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report 32 Our risks continued Risk and Potential Impact Mitigating Activities Talent management and succession Execution of the Group's strategy depends on its ability to The Group has a strong service culture supported by attract, develop and retain employees with the appropriate performance management and recognition systems, skills, experience and aptitude.
This becomes more difficult compensation and benefits arrangements, and training as world travel becomes more prevalent and competition in and development programmes.
Labour relations are the hospitality industry increases.
actively managed on a regional and local basis.
In the second half of 2015 the Group, with the support Failure of the Group to properly plan for the succession of key of an external compensation and benefits consultant, management roles may cause operational disruption, potentially completed a review of its below Board level executive delaying the execution of the Groups strategies and increasing compensation and benefits arrangements and will be costs and inefficiencies.
implementing certain changes in 2016 in an effort to enhance employee engagement and performance.
Financial The Group operates in numerous jurisdictions and trades in The Groups internal Treasury Management Committee various international currencies, but reports its financial results monitors and addresses treasury matters, including in pounds sterling.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates and investment and counterparty risks, in accordance with interest rates may either be accretive or dilutive to the Groups the Groups treasury policy.
The Board and Audit & Risk reported trading results and net asset value.
Committee receive regular updates on treasury matters.
Foreign exchange exposure is primarily managed through Unhedged interest rate exposures pose a risk to the Group the funding of purchases and repayment of borrowings when interest rates rise, resulting in increased costs of funding from income generated in the same currency.
and an impact on overall financial performance.
Interest rate hedges are only used to manage interest rate risk to the extent the perceived costs are considered to outweigh the benefits of having flexible, variable-rate debt.
Compliance and corporate responsibility Legal and regulatory compliance The Group operates in many jurisdictions and is exposed The Group continues to monitor changes in the regulatory to the risk of non-compliance with increasingly complex environments in which it operates, identify its compliance statutory and regulatory requirements, including competition obligations and implement appropriate compliance and law, anti-bribery and corruption and data privacy compliance training programmes.
The Group has comprehensive global regimes.
Non-compliance with such regulations, which differ and, where applicable, regional policies and procedures by jurisdiction and are an area of increasing focus by regulators, in place to address competition law, data privacy, ethical could result in fines and or other damages, including reputational business conduct, whistle-blowing, anti-corruption and damage, being incurred, particularly in the event a data breach bribery, gifts and hospitality and charitable donations, should occur.
The Group maintains in place industry standard insurance In addition, the Group may be at risk of litigation from cover to mitigate many potential litigation risks, such as various parties with which it interacts, either through direct employment practices liability, workers compensation contractual arrangements or as a result of providing services and general liability policies.
Significant costs could be incurred where claims The Group has controls in place to manage and help are not insured or are not fully insured, and litigation could mitigate the risks associated with its various contractual give rise to reputational damage being suffered and relationships, from execution through to termination, management distraction.
insured and uninsured litigation and other disputes.
Regular litigation reports are provided to the Board.
In certain countries where the Group operates, particularly in emerging markets, local practices and the legal environment may be such that enforcement of the Groups legal rights is challenging.
Health and safety and The Group is exposed to a wide range of regulatory The Group has established and maintains health and social responsibility requirements and obligations concerning the health and safety and environmental management systems which safety of employees, visitors and guests.
Failure to implement it seeks to align with the requirements of ISO 14001 and and maintain sufficient controls regarding health and safety OHSAS 18001.
By using these standards the Group is issues could expose the Group to significant sanctions, both committed to working to the highest standards of health civil and criminal, financial penalties and reputational damage.
and safety and to an internationally accredited system.
The Group has adopted various corporate responsibility Furthermore, as a significant property owner and operator initiatives in relation to its employees, guests and the of hotels in multiple jurisdictions, the Group must do more environment.
The Groups operating regions have flexibility than simply comply with local regulations.
We must act in a to tailor such initiatives and adopt new ones to better responsible way towards our stakeholders and the communities conform to local and regional customs and practices.
in which our hotels operate.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic Report 33 Risk and Potential Impact Mitigating Activities Vulnerability to cyber attacks or fraud Increasing reliance on online distribution channels and In 2015 the Group engaged an external consultancy transactions over the internet and the aggregation and firm to conduct security and penetration testing services storage of guest and other information electronically, both on in relation to certain of the Groups websites and company-controlled servers and networks and in cloud-based implemented enhancements following that review.
Also, environments, present heightened risks of attacks affecting the as part of the Groups PCI-DSS compliance activities, all operation of those systems and networks and or a potential loss regions conduct additional internal and external penetration or misuse of confidential or proprietary information.
The testing annually as required.
occurrence of cyber risks could disrupt business, the ability of The Company has in place, and regularly reviews, cyber the Group to take or fulfil bookings or lead to reputational and insurance coverage to protect against certain cyber risks.
monetary damages, litigation or regulatory fines.
Software systems are regularly updated to allow for the latest security updates and patches to be installed.
In addition, various aspects of the Groups operations are Where the Group outsources critical information required to achieve compliance with the payment card industry technology systems, including its point of sale and property data security standards PCI-DSS, and failure to do so could management systems, the Group utilises reputable result in penalties and or withdrawal of credit card payment suppliers that have industry-standard or best-in-class facilities.
The Groups hotels utilise Oracles MICROS property management system, for example.
The regional information technology teams have developed disaster recovery plans and guides with regard to their highpriority systems that need to be up-and-running, and tests are conducted on select mission-critical systems annually to verify their recoverability offsite.
Information technology policies and procedures have been updated to reflect implementation of the latest PCI-DSS compliance standards.
Natural, geopolitical and economic events Sustained levels of occupancy and the Groups ability The Group has in place disaster recovery, crisis response and business continuity plans to enable it to respond to to optimise room rates and profitability can be adversely affected by various external events that may reduce travel major incidents or emergencies.
Management pro-actively monitors geopolitical or increase the Groups operating costs.
developments and seeks to identify emerging risks at the earliest opportunity and implements ownership Such events, which often are beyond the control of management, may be localised to a particular community, structures, internal controls and other steps to minimise these exposures to the greatest extent possible.
city or country or they may have a wider international impact.
Examples of such events include severe weather conditions The Groups flexible financial and revenue management systems help it to control costs and achieve better yields and natural disasters, acts of terrorism, war or perceived risk of armed conflict, epidemics, nationalisation of assets or in volatile trading conditions.
The Groups insurance requirements are regularly reviewed restrictions on the repatriation of funds, increased travel costs, industrial action and political and or social unrest.
Notably the by management to ensure that the coverages obtained are forthcoming UK referendum on EU membership will give rise to appropriate to the companys risk profile relative to the cost further political and economic uncertainty.
Appropriate insurance of cover available in the relevant markets.
coverage may not be available in the market in some instances The wide geographic spread of the Groups properties is or coverage may not be available on commercially viable terms.
a natural hedge against the impact of natural, geopolitical and economic events.
Note: Due to the in-depth review and restatement of the Groups principal risks following the implementation of the Viability Statement a year on year comparison of the status of each risk was not performed as in prior years.
Approval of Strategic Report The Strategic Report comprises the following sections: Chairmans statement, Business review and strategy, Key performance indicators, Financial performance and regional performances, Corporate responsibility which incorporates information relating to greenhouse gas emissions required to be included in the Directors report and Our risks sections.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board and has been signed on its behalf by: Aloysius Lee Group Chief Executive Officer 18 February 2016 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 34 Copthorne Hotel Wellington Oriental Bay, NZ Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 35 Governance 36 Board of Directors 38 Directors report 42 Corporate governance statement 47 Audit & Risk Committee report 49 Directors remuneration report 65 Nominations Committee report 66 Statement of Directors responsibilities 67 Independent auditors report
