Principal risks and uncertainties Identified principal risks to the achievement of our strategic business objectives are outlined in the section below, together with their potential impact and the mitigation measures in place.
The Board believe these risks to be the most significant with the potential to impact our strategy, our financial and operational performance and, ultimately, our reputation.
There may be other risks which are currently unknown to the group or which may become material in the future.
Our key risk categories continue to be: strategic, financial, operational, and regulatory.
Strategic risks Risk Mitigation Contract Central to achieving our strategy is the successful delivery of our Our bid, mobilisation and contract management processes contract portfolio, particularly our large scale, complex integrated operate under strict delegated authorities and are subject to bidding, FM contracts.
Our strong financial position relies on our ability to rigorous executive management oversight and approval for the mobilisation successfully bid, mobilise, operate and manage such contracts.
large and complex integrated FM contracts.
These contracts and We see an increasingly complex service offering as a business are supported by teams of experienced bid, mobilisation and management differentiator to our clients, supported by more sophisticated and operational delivery specialists to mitigate the risk of failure at any complex technological solutions.
When compared to our more stage.
On-going contract assurance occurs together with regular traditional business activities, these solutions necessarily carry client dialogue to ensure service delivery remains in line with the increased risk around bidding, design, delivery and successful clients expectations.
Through these activities we aim to develop implementation.
Winning new and retaining existing contracts long term client relationships, supported by a strengthened of this nature continues to be critical for the future success of framework to retain our existing client base.
Investment and support for the development and deployment of technical solutions is governed by our Board to provide assurance on their on-going performance.
Company The UK market remains our principal macro-economic exposure, We continue to be focused on the delivery of sustainable, profitable with only very limited exposure to the wider global economy.
growth and during the year we completed our exit strategy performance We anticipate a continued improvement in the pipeline of new from more cyclical, complex, margin-diluting markets and have and resourcing opportunities and so our business model needs to adapt and grow fide-risked the business as a result.
We continue to strategically requirements with any on-going economic upturn.
Our ability to recognise and target growth areas with good margins, underpinned by the right impacted by respond to variations in the volume, value and range of services supporting business infrastructure and our financial exposure to change to the required, particularly from our private sector clients, may impact rapid changes in the economic environment is mitigated through the Groups ability to win or retain significant business opportunities.
the continued development of our long term diverse contract market and Resilience is provided by our diverse business portfolio during portfolio.
Formal control occurs over entry into new business areas economic times of economic change, with varying demands on our resources and is subject to Board approval.
conditions dependent on the way in which our client base responds to the economic cycle.
We are well placed to adapt to any policy changes from the Government.
Protecting Maintaining a strong reputation is vital to our success as a The basis for effective reputational management is a strong business.
A loss in market confidence in our ability to maintain corporate governance framework supported by clear and our current business or undertake new client opportunities may be demonstrable values and behaviours, clearly communicated at reputation caused by an adverse impact to our reputation which may, in all levels of our business.
Our governance and ethical business turn, significantly affect our financial performance and growth frameworks provide a set of linked policies, procedures, training prospects: this is particularly the case in our public sector contracts programmes and audits, all centred on our code of conduct One where the need for transparency is paramount.
Significant impact Code, to address specific issues which, if realised, may give rise to to our reputation could be caused by any incident involving major reputational impact.
These frameworks were further strengthened harm to one of our people or our clients partners, corrupt practices in 2014 15 to ensure our people are aware of their responsibilities.
involving fraud or bribery, inadequate financial control processes A strong and consistent tone from the top is provided by our senior or failure to comply with regulatory requirements.
Impacts of management to ensure our values and expected behaviours are this type would potentially result in financial penalties, losses of clear and understood by everyone.
We have also strengthened key contracts, an inability to win new business and challenges in our public relations and external communications programme to retaining key staff and recruiting new staff.
ensure a fair and balanced view of our services is provided to our clients and other interested parties.
As our business continues to grow and develop into new sectors we will remain strongly focused on protecting the strength of our reputation through effective governance, leadership, the continued enhancement of our ethical business framework, and through maintaining open and transparent relationships with all stakeholders.
Financial risks Risk Mitigation Financial Our financial strength makes us an attractive partner to our clients We have mature financial governance arrangements in place, and stakeholders including our funding partners.
Our ability to providing oversight and monitoring of our financial performance strength and grow if our financial performance deteriorates, by weakening including daily monitoring of bank balances, cash flow reporting access to profitability and limiting our ability to access diverse sources of on a daily and weekly basis and regular financial performance appropriately funding on competitive terms, causing an increase in the cost of and balance sheet reviews, which include detailed working scaled and borrowing or cash flow issues which could, in turn, further affect capital reviews.
We have strong banking, debt finance and diverse sources our financial performance.
As a people business staff costs remain equity relationships, a diverse committed long term funding our most significant area of expenditure.
Our ability to pay our portfolio and appropriate levels of gearing for our business.
of funding people and suppliers regularly and at specific times relies upon funding being continually available and, in particular, our ability to manage our cash flow and working capital exposures.
Mitie Group plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Financial risks Reliance We depend on a number of significant counterparties such as We are limited on the dependency of any one counterparty insurers, banks, clients and suppliers to maintain our business and hence the impact of any potential failure, through strategic on material activities.
The failure of a key business partner, supplier, development of a diverse and robust counterparty base.
The counterparties subcontractor, financer or other provider could materially affect Board undertakes a formal review of material counterparty risk the operational and financial effectiveness of our business and our at divisional and business level.
Ensuring on-going relationships with our material counterparties will underpin the Groups ability to meet its strategic objectives.
Lloyds Banking Group is a material counterparty to the Group, providing both banking facilities and being our largest client, accounting for 7% of the Groups revenue.
Operational risks Risk Mitigation Significant Due to our diverse operational portfolio, the potential to cause The Board, through effective governance, oversight and significant harm to our employees, our business partners, health, management standards maintains its commitment to the highest members of the public, or to damage the environment will always standards of quality, health, safety and environmental QHSE safety or exist.
We have an unwavering commitment to safeguarding our performance, which remains the first item on every Board agenda.
environmental people and protecting the environment wherever we operate.
Our performance is achieved through two cornerstones, QHSE incident Failure to maintain our high standards could result in a significant management systems and employee engagement.
Our well incident affecting an employee, their family, friends or colleagues established management systems are certified to the ISO 9001, or lead to regulatory action, financial impact or damage to 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards, and our Work Safe Home our reputation.
programme is central to achieving employee engagement, having been revised and strengthened during the year.
To support our management system and engagement programme we focus on developing training programmes to ensure every employee, at every level of the business, has the core competencies required to do their work safely.
We have a network of dedicated and experienced QHSE professionals who strive to deliver continual improvement in support of the operational delivery of our services.
System, Sophisticated, interdependent business systems underpin The basis of our governance framework is provided by our core our operations.
Such systems form the basis for our contract policies, which are subject to continual review and optimisation to process management and business support activities and we foresee manage our growing and diversifying business requirements in line or control failure increasing future reliance on such capability.
These systems, with sound governance practice.
Our internal control effectiveness may impact our in conjunction with our governance framework of policies and continues to be reviewed formally, supported by a programme operational procedures, will help to drive innovation in customer requirements, of internal audits and self-certification on the operation of key performance improve our operational efficiency and provide the foundation of controls and procedures.
As such they remain critical for Formal testing of our business critical systems occurs to ensure the control and success of the business and the achievement of effective recovery following a potential disaster scenario and we our strategic aims.
have in place an assurance programme to test the adequacy of Operational failure may result in a significant impact on operational our mitigation activity.
IT related governance oversight is provided delivery, contract management and client expectations due to by the IT steering group compromising senior management the business critical nature of these systems.
System failure who continue to monitor the effectiveness of the information could also result in a breakdown in the controls around high security management system, which is aligned with recognised volume transactions and compliance areas such as vetting and international standards.
Financial or other misstatements, fines through statutory non-compliance issues and loss of client and or regulator confidence could occur as a result.
Attracting Attracting and retaining the best skilled people at all levels of the To ensure a pipeline of opportunities exist for staff at every level business is critical.
This is particularly the case in ensuring we have of the business our career development and talent management and access to a diverse range of views and experience and in attracting programmes are a key focus for our management teams.
retaining specific expertise at both managerial and operational levels where Additionally, to ensure a talent pool is identified, developed and skilled the market may be highly competitive.
Failure to attract new talent, ready for succession if needed, succession plans exist for key people or to develop and retain our existing employees, could impact our management.
We are also aiming to develop the next generation ability to achieve our strategic growth objectives.
As we continue of leaders via our graduate programme.
Our focus on training and to grow and diversify into new areas, this risk will continue to be competency at all levels of the business continues to ensure that a focus for the Board.
we develop our people and enable them to successfully manage the changing profile of our business.
Regulatory risks Risk Mitigation Non-compliance As a major employer, further development of the regulatory and A key element of our management system is the legal compliance legal framework in areas where we work may have a material framework, developed to ensure proactive identification of legal with the financial and reputational impact on the business.
As such we and regulatory requirements in our diverse range of business developing continue to provide a strong focus on ensuring, as a minimum areas.
Our operational teams remain primarily responsible for regulatory requirement, legal and regulatory compliance in all of our business ensuring legal compliance, supported by experienced teams framework areas, in particular where we enter into new areas.
Failure to of functional experts and backed up by our assurance teams.
achieve this could lead to enforcement action, fines, adverse Where required we obtain specialist technical advice to support our publicity and therefore potential damage to our reputation, all of in-house teams.
We continue to proactively monitor the developing which would threaten the ability to achieve our strategic objectives.
regulatory framework to plan and budget for on-going compliance.
Mitie Group plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
