18 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risks and uncertainties How we guarantee a great customer experience.
Risk overview This section highlights the top ten Risk management is critical to our corporate Management support, involvement and responsibilities and to the delivery of shareholder enforcement is fundamental to the success principal risks and uncertainties value.
Risk is at the heart of everything we do of our risk management framework and each that affect the Company, together as an organisation.
Therefore the process for member of the Executive Committee takes identifying and assessing risks and opportunities responsibility for the management of the with the key mitigating activities is an integral and inseparable part of the specific risks associated with their department.
in place to manage those risks.
management skills and processes which Our Group risk register clearly outlines the are the core of our business.
alignment of each key risk to an Executive This does not represent a Committee member and an action owner, to comprehensive list of all of the There is an established Risk Committee in ensure responsibilities are formally aligned.
place, which met on four occasions in FY 2015 risks that the Company faces, and continues to meet on a quarterly basis to Therefore, there is a robust and transparent but focuses on those that are review the key risks facing the business.
Key process in place to provide an appropriate level risks identified are reviewed and assessed by of direction and support in the identification, currently considered to be most the Risk Committee in terms of their likelihood assessment and management of those aspects relevant at the current time.
and impact, within the Groups Key Risk of the business which have the potential to Heat Map, in conjunction with associated risk damage seriously our financial position, our mitigation plans.
The processes that are used responsibilities to our staff and customers, to identify and manage risks are described in our reputation and our relationship with the Internal Control and Risk Management key stakeholders.
Our three lines of defence First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence Executive Committee Financial authority limits Group Assurance Leadership group Risk management External audit management processes Operational Practice Team Internal controls Audit Committee and processes Risk Committee Internal policies Health and safety and procedures Technology Training Legal Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 19 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Changes since 2014 Annual Report: Movement and impact: Increased High No change Medium Reduced Low Actively managing potential risks Risk category Risk description Mitigating activities Movement and impact Market risks Consumer taste and Social and demographic changes In FY 2013, the Company conducted a major piece of Changes since brand management are driving the long-term growth consumer research, interviewing 8,000 consumers about 2014 Annual in eating-out while at the same 14,000 leisure occasions.
This research examined macro Report: time leading to a steady decline economic trends, consumer dynamics, competitor and in the sales of on-trade drinks internal brand positioning and the Companys strengths without food.
The business continues to implement Risk rating: together with other developments the outputs from this project to refine further its brand in consumer taste, may reduce positioning and ensure the portfolios continued relevance the appeal of Mitchells & Butlers for guests.
This is discussed in detail in the Business brands to its guests, especially Review on pages 24 and 25. if the Company fails to anticipate The Company uses an online guest satisfaction survey to and identify these changes and collect guest feedback.
This feedback together with the respond to them adequately results of research studies is monitored and evaluated by a and promptly.
dedicated guest insight team to ensure that the relevance to guests of the Companys brands is maintained.
Net promoter score, as defined on page 116, is the key measure of success in this area, and this has improved from 63% in FY 2014 to 65% in FY 2015.
Pricing and market External influences, such as Mitchells & Butlers is focused on the long-term potential of the Changes since changes changes in the general economic eating-out market.
The Company owns sites across the UK 2014 Annual climate or competitor activity, with a wide spectrum of offers targeted at different consumer Report: could have a detrimental effect groups and leisure occasions.
This range allows the on consumers spending patterns Company to respond to changes in consumer expenditure and therefore the Companys either by flexing our offerings or by substituting a different Risk rating: revenue, profitability and brand at a particular location.
This activity is supported by consequently the value of dedicated Sales and Margin Managers and Asset Planning its assets.
teams which analyse and evaluate a range of information including that in respect of competitors.
Operational risks Cost of goods Increases in the price of goods Mitchells & Butlers leverages its scale to drive competitive Changes since price increases for resale and utilities costs as cost advantage and collaborates with suppliers to increase 2014 Annual including energy a result of increases in global efficiencies in the supply chain.
The fragmented nature of Report: price increases demand and uncertainty of the food supply industry on the world commodity markets supply in producing nations gives the Company the opportunity to source products from can have a significant impact a number of alternative suppliers in order to drive down cost.
Risk rating: on the cost base, consequently The Company continually evolves the composition of menus impacting margins.
and retail prices in order to optimise value to the guest as well as profits for the Company.
The energy procurement strategy seeks to reduce the risk of cost increases and uncertainty over energy prices by a rolling programme of short and medium-term purchases against forecast requirements.
A dedicated energy management team is responsible for optimising energy usage across the organisation by promoting energy efficient working practices via training and educational programmes and by the installation of energy efficient equipment.
20 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk category Risk description Mitigating activities Movement and impact Operational risks continued People planning Mitchells & Butlers has a strong The Company makes significant investment in training Changes since and development guest focus, and as such it is to ensure that its people have the right skills to perform 2014 Annual important that it is able to attract, their jobs successfully.
Furthermore, an employee survey Report: retain, develop and motivate is conducted annually to establish employee satisfaction the best people with the right and engagement and this is compared with other Risk rating: capabilities throughout the companies, as well as previous surveys.
There is a risk appropriate, changes in working practices are made that without the right people in response to the findings of these surveys.
our customer service levels would be affected.
Remuneration packages are benchmarked to ensure that they remain competitive and a talent review process is used to provide structured succession planning.
Staff turnover is the key measure of success in this area and the Company has maintained the low rate of 76%.
Business continuity Mitchells & Butlers relies on its The Company has in place crisis and continuity plans Changes since and crisis food and drink supply chain and that are tested and refreshed regularly.
2014 Annual management the key IT systems underlying Report: the business to serve its guests In September 2014, the Companys third-party efficiently and effectively.
Supply back-up facility, for retail support centre employees, Risk rating: chain interruption, IT system was successfully tested to ensure critical business failure or crises such as terrorist systems are able to function in the event of a disaster.
activity or the threat of disease In addition, during FY 2015, departmental Business pandemic might restrict sales or Continuity Plans have been developed and reviewed reduce operational effectiveness.
Disaster Recovery There is a risk that inadequate In FY 2015 a detailed review of Disaster Recovery Changes since disaster recovery plans and and IT Resilience was performed in order to highlight 2014 Annual and IT Resilience Report: processes are in place to mitigate and address any challenges that had been presented in against a system outage, or exploring the viability of a Disaster Recovery test for our failure to ensure appropriate business critical applications.
Mitigating solutions have Risk rating: back-up facilities covering key been critically assessed during the year.
business systems and the recovery of critical data.
National Living Wage There is a risk that increased The National Living Wage will be introduced in April 2016 Changes since costs associated with the at 7.20 per hour, rising to at least 9.00 per hour in 2014 Annual introduction of the National April 2020.
A detailed review of the risks associated Report: Living Wage may adversely with successfully implementing the National Living Wage impact upon overall has therefore been completed.
This review has been operational costs.
undertaken at a strategic level and seeks to ensure that Risk rating: appropriate mitigating actions are in place, some of which are in relation to how the Group carefully manages productivity and efficiency across the estate.
Implementation of the National Living Wage will continue to remain an area of focus as we enter FY 2016.
Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 21 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Changes since 2014 Annual Report: Movement and impact: Increased High No change Medium Reduced Low Risk category Risk description Mitigating activities Movement and impact Finance risks Borrowing covenants There are risks that borrowing The Company maintains headroom against these risks.
Changes since covenants are breached because The finance team conducts daily cash forecasting with 2014 Annual of circumstances such as: periodic reviews at the Treasury Committee, the roles Report: i.
A change in the economic of which include ensuring that the Board Treasury Policy climate leading to reduced is adhered to, monitoring its operation and agreeing cash inflows: or appropriate strategies for recommendation to the Board.
A material change in the In addition, regular forecasting and testing of covenant valuation of the property compliance is performed and frequent communication portfolio.
is maintained with the Securitisation Trustee.
Pension fund deficit The material value of the pension The Company has made significant additional contributions Changes since fund deficit remains a risk.
to reduce the funding deficit.
In May 2014, the Company 2014 Annual reached agreement on the triennial valuation of the Report: Group pension schemes as at 31 March 2013, at an increased funding shortfall of 572m March 2010 valuation 400m.
The value of total liability at the Risk rating: end of FY 2015, following the revised contributions, is 350m FY 2014 425m.
Regulatory risks Failure to operate A major health and safety Mitchells & Butlers maintains a robust programme of Changes since safely and legally failure could lead to illness, health and safety checks both within its restaurants and 2014 Annual injury or loss of life or significant pubs and throughout the supply chain.
The dedicated Report: damage to the Companys or Safety Assurance team uses a number of technical a brands reputation.
partners including food technologists, microbiologists and allergen specialists to ensure that our food procedures Risk rating: are safe.
Regular independent audits of trading sites are performed to ensure that procedures are followed and that appropriate standards are maintained.
Food suppliers are required to meet the British Retail Consortium Global Standard for Food Safety and are subject to regular safety and quality audits.
Comprehensive health and safety training programmes are in place.
