18 Strategic report RISK MAnAGEMEnT The Group has an established risk management risk sits within the Groups internal control those risks.
As a result of these reviews, methodology which seeks to identify, quantify, framework at the level where the impact a number of actions were identified to manage and mitigate both existing and would materialise, with the effectiveness improve controls and the mitigation of risk.
emerging risks, underpinned by a three of the controls and mitigating actions being Also in 2015, the Groups risk management lines of defence model comprising of a monitored and assessed through a Groupmethodology and related processes were comprehensive internal control framework, wide review process which considers the reviewed to ensure alignment with the monitoring and independent assurance ongoing appropriateness and effectiveness requirements of the revised uK Corporate processes.
The Board considers that of the controls and monitoring and assurance Governance Code, with enhanced risk risk management and internal control outcomes in respect of these risks.
Senior assessment tools and internal reporting are fundamental to achieving the Group executives are responsible for the strategic mechanisms being implemented.
aim of creating long-term sustainable management of the Groups principal risks, shareholder value.
including related policy, guidelines and process, The following are the Groups principal risks subject to Board oversight.
and uncertainties, representing those risks that Risks are identified both top down and site the Board feels could have the most significant up through the Groups businesses and are Throughout 2015, the Board Audit Committee effect on achieving the Groups strategy of quantified by assessing their inherent impact reviewed the status of all principal risks and building a sustainable business for the long and mitigated probability to ensure that business specific risks with a notable potential term and delivering strong returns to the residual risk exposures are fully understood impact at both Group and Regional levels, Groups shareholders.
and prioritised for control throughout the together with the controls, monitoring and Group.
The day-to-day management of assurance processes established to mitigate RISK MITIGATIOn Strategy and strategic planning risks Technical leadership One of the core competencies that the Group is focused on The Group has a Chief Technology Officer and a dedicated is materials science.
This is fundamental to achieving the goal technology team which monitors technology and business of continuing to be one of the worlds very best advanced developments globally using technology roadmaps linked to 20 materials companies.
major technology families to ensure it remains at the leading edge of technology development.
Two global Material Centres of unforeseen unmitigated technology obsolescence, the emergence of Excellence are now established to focus expertise and resources competing technologies, the loss of control of proprietary technology in core technologies, underpinned by a Technical Advisory Board or the loss of intellectual property know-how would impact the comprising some of the worlds leading academics, who provided Groups business and its ability to deliver on its strategic goals.
valuable insight, advice and challenge in respect of the Groups technology plans during the year.
The technology team proactively manages the Groups technology pipeline and R&D investment in new improving technologies as well as providing active management of the technology lifecycle.
The technology pipeline and key R&D projects are regularly reviewed by the Group Executive and the Board.
Where Group products are designed for a specific customer, they are developed in tandem with the customer to maintain leading-edge differentiated solutions.
The Group seeks to secure intellectual property protection, where appropriate, for its existing and emerging portfolio of products: external advisers manage this protection globally.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 19 RISK MITIGATIOn Strategy and strategic planning risks continued People management and development A key execution priority for the Group is to increase the investment Making Morgan a safe, fulfilling and rewarding Group to work for is in people management and development, ensuring that the Group the primary means of engaging the workforce and managing this risk.
has strong leadership and deep functional capabilities.
The Group has an hR Director and a network of hR professionals within the business who, along with policies and processes, support The advanced technological nature of the Group requires people Morgans managers to mitigate the risks relating to its people.
Any inability to recruit, retain The hR function covers areas including reward and recognition, and develop the right people would impact the Groups ability to recruitment, talent management, skills assessment and development, achieve its strategic goals.
performance management and employee consultation.
In 2012 the Group launched its Graduate leadership Programme which continued to run in 2015.
The Group continued its global leadership programme in conjunction with Cranfield university, adding an advanced programme to reach more high-potential commercial, functional and technical leaders.
Further detail on People is set out on pages 33 to 35. operational risks Treasury risks The Groups global nature means that it is exposed to uncertainties The Groups treasury function operates on a risk averse basis and in the financial markets and the banking sector which heighten the this is enshrined in the Treasury Policy and procedures which specify Groups funding, foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and liquidity strict controls on the selection of banks, cash management and other risks as well as the risk of bank failure impacting the Groups cash.
treasury practices and payments globally.
The Group treasury team proactively manages and is ultimately responsible for all of the Groups funding, liquidity, cash management, interest rate, foreign exchange, counterparty credit and other treasury related risks.
Treasury matters are regularly reviewed by the Board Audit Committee.
Further detail on Treasury Policies is set out in the Financial review on page 47.
Quality of contracts As a global advanced materials business supplying into critical The Group has an in-house legal function supplemented by specialist applications, the quality of the Groups contracts must match external lawyers.
the quality and nature of its products.
Ineffective contract risk The Group legal Policy requires in-house legal review of high-value management could result in significant liabilities for the Group or high-risk contracts to ensure they contain appropriate protections and damage customer relationships.
CEO approval is required before any part of the business can enter into an unlimited liability contract or one where the liability cap exceeds 5 million.
In 2015, the CEO approved three contracts or tenders with this liability profile, where the underlying risks were considered to be within the Groups risk appetite.
Contract risk management training is provided by the in-house legal function and remains part of the Responsible Business Programme RBP and has been rolled-out in 2015 to further mitigate the risk of ineffective contract management.
Additionally, a Group wide project has been implemented to ensure that appropriate contractual terms and conditions are in place across the business.
To the extent that risk cannot be mitigated through contractual arrangements, the Group has insurance cover in place, including product liability insurance.
IT risks and cyber risks In order to meet the Groups strategic objectives the availability The Group has an IT policy and guidelines in place as well as and integrity of its underlying IT infrastructure and the successful Group and business IT teams to manage the Groups infrastructure, implementation of new core global systems are essential.
If a IT systems roadmap and information security risks.
critical business system were to fail or core systems development During the course of 2015 there has been continued focus on testing implementation were ineffective, the ability of the business to the global infrastructure, reviewing information security and developing deliver on its strategic goals would be impacted.
the Groups business continuity plans in relation to IT risk.
Good Information security cyber risks are dynamic and ever-present progress has also been made in the development and implementation in the external environment.
If the Group lost critical data or of new global systems.
An enhanced, globally consistent, training and information, including proprietary information, through inadequate awareness programme is being developed for implementation in 2016. data management or compromised information security, the The Group insurance programme includes business interruption business would be impacted and suffer reputational damage.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 20 Strategic report RISK MAnAGEMEnT continued RISK MITIGATIOn operational risks continued Product quality, safety and liability Products used in applications for which they were not intended Many of the Groups products are designed to customer specifications.
or inadequate quality control over-commitment on customer Over 90% of the Groups manufacturing output is accredited to ISO specifications could result in products not meeting customer 9001 and the Groups quality management systems and training help requirements, which could in turn lead to significant liabilities ensure that Morgans products meet or exceed customer requirements and reputational damage.
Contracts relating to products used in potential high-risk applications are subject to mandatory legal review.
While a number of minor product quality issues were identified in 2015, these had no material impact.
The Group insurance programme includes product liability insurance: this Group-level insurance is reviewed annually by the Board.
Single-point exposures The Group has a number of potential single point exposure risks, The Group Executive is responsible for monitoring and managing which include: key single-point exposures and has reviewed such exposures during 2015.
The level of business diversification within the Group means Single-point supplier a significant interruption of a key internal that such exposures are kept to a minimum.
or external supply could impact business continuity.
local and Regional management of these risks involves monitoring Single-point customer the unmitigated loss of a major and reviewing supply chains internal and external, dual multiple customer could have an impact on Group profit.
sourcing of materials or strategic stock, site security and safety Single-point profit a key site exposed to a strike, a natural mechanisms, business continuity plans, and maintaining product catastrophe or serious incident, such as fire, could impact quality and strong customer relationships.
One Group site, hayward CA, is situated The Group insurance programme includes business interruption in the California earthquake zone.
cover and specific cover in relation to the impact of an earthquake in California: this Group-level insurance is reviewed annually by the Board.
Environment, health and safety EHS risks The Group operates a number of manufacturing facilities around The Group has a comprehensive EhS programme managed by the the world.
A failure in the Groups EhS procedures could lead to EhS Director, with site-based EhS officers to implement and monitor environmental damage or to injury or death of employees or third EhS compliance at site level.
Independent EhS audits are regularly parties, with a consequential impact on operations and the increased undertaken at site level.
risk of regulatory or legal action being taken against the Group.
During 2015 the Group completed the rollout of its behavioural Any such action could result in both financial damages and damage safety programme thinkSAFE.
As at 31 December 2015 the Group was managing projects to remediate legacy contamination at four former sites and one operational site in conjunction with external specialists and relevant authorities.
The anticipated costs of these projects are provided for in the accounts.
Further detail of the EhS programme in place to manage these risks is available on pages 25 to 31.
Compliance and ethics risks Changes to or non-compliance with laws and regulation The Groups global operations must comply with a range of national The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate and and international laws and regulations including those related to individual behaviour and this commitment is set out in the Groups bribery and corruption, human rights, trade export compliance and Core Values Statement and Ethics Policy, underpinned by ongoing competition anti-trust.
investment in the Responsible Business Programme RBP.
A failure to comply with any applicable laws regulations could In addition to Group compliance specialists, all businesses have result in civil or criminal liabilities and or individual or corporate established compliance officer roles, responsible for supporting fines and could also result in debarment from government-related local training and monitoring with trade export compliance specialists contracts or rejection by financial market counterparties as well in higher risk businesses and jurisdictions.
nine internal compliance as reputational damage.
audits were carried out in 2015.
Full information is available on pages 22 to 24.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015
