k I s d i c e r o n s n t s t i o r f o r y l g s i f y n f f e i u t e r n d t a e h u d e Q r Q u s a k n s i t r i f y y f i n t e n t e r d i I s k Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Risk Management How we mitigate risk Governance and oversight A governance and oversight structure is in place, with clearly Risk management approach defined lines of responsibility, accountability and delegation In common with many businesses, the Group faces risk in all of authority.
The Group seeks to understand its risks and manage them appropriately.
Effective risk management is vital The Board is ultimately responsible for the overall effectiveness in enabling the Group to achieve its strategic objectives and to of risk management across the business, supported by the Risk secure the business for the long term, whilst ensuring the Committee.
The Board delegates day to day responsibility to desired outcomes for consumers.
Risk management is a key executive management.
Executive management owns the element of the Groups decision-making processes, and Group risks, is responsible for ensuring that the business alongside its governance structure and system of internal effectively manages risk and takes appropriate and timely control, gives the Board assurance that risks are being action where issues are identified.
The Risk Committee appropriately identified and managed, in line with risk appetite.
oversees executive management in its management of risks.
Risk Management Processes Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 27 l o I r d t r n e i s o n k c t i m f d y i n t a i e g x r a i o t s t i t i o i n n n o g M Risk Management continued Role Responsibilities Board Approval of Risk Appetite Framework and Statement for the Group.
Carry out a robust assessment at least annually of Principal Risks and effectiveness of risk management and internal control policies: and report to shareholders on such matters.
Assessment of the effectiveness of Risk Appetite Framework and system of internal control on an on-going basis, including receiving and reviewing regular reports on internal control.
Risk Committee Advise the Board on Risk Appetite Framework and Statement for the Group.
Review and oversight of Risk Register.
Assessment of identification and measurement of risks.
Oversight of executive management in management of risks.
Review the procedures for identifying risks including strategic, financial, operational and conduct risks and controlling their impact on the Group having regard, in particular, to any significant failings or weaknesses in internal control that have been reported.
Executive Ensure risk management is an integral part of implementing the business strategy.
Management Operate the business within set risk appetite and tolerances.
1st Line of Responsibility for managing risks and implementing effective controls.
Defence Ensure that appropriate policies are implemented to identify and evaluate risks including strategic, financial, operational and conduct risks.
Risk and Monitor against Risk Appetite Framework and Statement, risk profile, control effectiveness and Compliance management actions.
2nd Line of Monitor and update the Risk Register.
Defence Co-ordinate appropriate and timely delivery of risk management information to executive management and the Risk Committee.
Implement appropriate risk management processes and methodologies.
Advise and challenge management on risk management and internal control processes.
Develop tools, techniques, methodologies, risk framework, analysis, reporting, communication and training.
Internal Audit Monitor effectiveness of risk management processes.
3rd Line of Perform tests of controls effectiveness.
Defence Identify and agree corrective actions with management.
Liaise with Risk and Compliance function.
Report to the Audit Committee.
In addition, the Audit Committee performs an annual assessment of the risk management and internal control framework, covering financial, operational and compliance controls including the: assessment of the risk management framework for identifying and monitoring risks, with consideration of the integration with strategic and business planning processes.
This is supported by independent reporting on risk management and internal controls by the Internal Audit function or independent third parties, including the external auditor: assessment of the extent, frequency and quality of risk management and internal control reporting: review of the resolution of issues arising from internal control failings or weaknesses: and review of the effectiveness of the financial reporting processes.
The Audit Committee makes a recommendation to the Board on effectiveness which the Board considers, together with reports from the Risk Committee, in forming its own view on the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems.
28 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Where risk exposures are identified as being outside appetite, Risk management framework this is escalated and reported to the Risk Committee, alongside During 2015, the Group has made further enhancements to the clear action plans to bring the risk within tolerance, with risk management framework and internal control environment appropriate timescales.
The type and extent of any mitigating and has continued to embed them within the business to actions will be determined by the level and nature of the risk increase understanding and overall effectiveness.
and the Groups risk appetite.
Risk Appetite Future developments Risk Appetite defines the level and type of risk the Group is To support the risk management framework, we are enhancing able and willing to accept in line with its strategic objectives.
our suite of risk management policies, which will set the The Groups risk appetite influences the business culture and requirements and standards for all areas of risk, in line with the operating decisions, and is reflected in the way risk is managed.
risk appetite, and will inform the processes and procedures the The Group Risk Appetite Statement is reviewed annually, in line Group will be measured against.
We will also continue to with the strategic direction of the Group, recent experience and develop our management information, key risk indicators and the regulatory environment, and is subject to Board approval.
assurance processes over internal controls.
Risk identification and assessment We continue to embed a risk culture where risk management is The Group adopts formal risk identification and management part of everyday business decision making and is understood processes which are designed to ensure that risks are properly by our wider business, to ensure all personnel understand the identified and evaluated, in line with risk appetite.
Robust risk risks faced by the business, how risk is managed, and the part and control assessments are carried out at least quarterly they play.
across all areas of the business, in order to understand the strength and performance of the controls in place, and potential gaps and weaknesses.
Management reporting Timely and accurate management information is provided to the right people to support management decisions and manage risk effectively within the Group.
Reporting enables the business to have clear visibility of the most relevant risks: to identify areas of concern and or priority: to have access to detailed information to enable root cause analysis and underlying trends: and to identify, escalate and potentially to mitigate the impact of new operational risk concerns in a timely manner.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 29
