Our principal risks Proactive risk management Our risk and internal control management framework is designed to address all the significant strategic, sustainable development, financial, operational and compliance-related risks that could undermine our ability to achieve our business objectives into the future.
Our risk and internal control management framework Boards Overall responsibility for Group strategy and managing risk Determine risk appetite in line with Group strategy and approve risk management framework Audit committee Sustainable Reviews risk management policy, plan and risk development committee tolerance levels and monitors the effectiveness of the Monitors and reviews material safety, risk management process health, environment and other sustainable Monitors and reviews all risks not covered by the development risks sustainable development committee Executive committee Formulates risk management policies in terms of the approved risk management framework to ensure risks are managed within accepted tolerance levels Internal audit Assesses and monitors risks on an ongoing basis Provides assurance to the Boards and committees on the effectiveness of the risk management process Business units Group functions Evaluates internal control environment to ensure Responsible for identification Responsible for managing areas that controls are operating of emerging risks and for of risk that benefit from central efficiently and effectively implementation of risk management coordination treasury, tax, across all business units policies and procedures information technology, safety and health, sustainable development Work closely with business units to manage and monitor these risk areas Risk-aware culture embedded throughout the organisation 38 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Boards are responsible for theeffectiveness of the Groups risk management activities and internal control processes.
The Boards have put in place procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks that theGroup faces.
The executive committee, audit committee and Boards conduct an annual review of the most significant risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, including how these risks are monitored and managed.
Risk management is embedded in all decision-making processes, with ongoing review of the Groups risks throughout the year as well as risk assessments being conducted as part of all investment decisions.
A number of our most significant risks are long-term in nature and do not tend to change significantly from year to year as they are linked to our strategy.
We aim to manage risk within the risk management framework and accepted tolerance Focusing on fire protection limits which are determined by the Boards in relation to our strategy.
Risks, if they develop In 2012, the executive committee took a decision positively, may lead to opportunities.
Our business units are managed locally and are to upgrade fire protection across all our operations.
responsible for implementing their own risk management policies and procedures within We started by launching our practical fire protection code, looking at how best to safeguard our people the framework approved by the Boards.
Our business units also play a critical role in the and our operations from the hazards of fire.
Certain more specialised risk areas such as information We initiated a six-year programme and we have technology, sustainable development, safety and health, treasury and tax are managed already completed almost 200 projects across our centrally, allowing more effective coordination.
In addition to better fire protection, the programme has Risk management is by nature a dynamic and ongoing process.
Our approach is flexible, achieved a significant improvement in our fire-risk rating from our insurers reducing the total loss to ensure that it remains relevant at all levels of the business: and dynamic to ensure we estimate by more than 25% and reduced our can be responsive to changing business conditions.
This is particularly important given the insurance claims from fire-related losses.
diversity of the Groups locations, markets and production processes.
This report only addresses our most significant identified risks.
A comprehensive review of risks affecting the business is conducted annually at business unit level and the most significant risks are reported to the Group executive committee and subsequently to the audit committee and Boards, in accordance with the Groups risk tolerance threshold.
Our system of internal control is designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and to provide reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance that the Groups business objectives will be achieved.
Our system of internal control comprises three levels of assurance: Boards audit committee approval Approval of Group financial, business conduct, operating and administrative policies Approval of all major investments, following rigorous strategic and commercial examination Approval of the annual internal audit plan Approval of the annual budget and three-year plan Management review and assurance Continuous review of operating performance Regular financial reporting, including monthly results, periodic forecasts and comparisons against budgets and previous projections Six-monthly internal control assessment confirming compliance with Group policies and procedures and listing any weaknesses Independent assessment Centrally coordinated internal audit programme Confidential reporting hotline Speakout operated by an independent third party External assurance including external audit review and insurance assessments Registration and compliance with independent standard-setting authorities such as FSC and ISO the International Organization for Standardization Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 39 Our principal risks A number of our most significant Over the course of the past year, the audit committee has reviewed each of the principal risks are long term in nature and do risks set out below.
In evaluating the Groups risk management and internal control not tend to change significantly in processes, the committee has considered both internal and external audit reports and the short term.
In order to increase received confirmation from the finance heads of the business units that financial control focus on risks relating to the frameworks have operated satisfactorily.
technical integrity of our operations The Boards are satisfied that the Group has effective systems and controls in place to and information technology, the manage its key risks within the risk tolerance levels established by the Boards.
Boards have decided to include both as significant risks.
Our most significant risks David Hathorn 1.
Industry capacity Chief executive officer 2.
Fluctuations and variability in selling 3 prices and gross margins 10 4.
Cost and availability of responsibly 8 produced wood, pulp and paper for recycling 5 7 6.
Energy security and related input costs 7.
T echnical integrity of our operating assets 12 6 11 2 8.
Financial risks Likelihood Risk Response Plant utilisation levels are the main driver of profitability in We monitor industry developments in terms of changes Industry paper mills.
New capacity additions are usually in large in capacity as well as trends and developments in our capacity increments which, through their impact on the supply own product markets.
demand balance, influence market prices.
Unless market Our strategic focus on low-cost production and growth exceeds capacity additions, excess capacity may innovation activities to produce higher value-added lead to lower selling prices.
In our converting operations products, combined with our focus on growing markets newer technology may lower operating costs and provide and consistent investment in our operating capacity, increased product functionality impacting margins.
ensures that we remain competitive.
Changing global socio-economic and demographic Our ability to meet changes in consumer demand Product trends and increased public awareness of sustainability depends on our capacity to correctly anticipate change substitution challenges affect the demand for Mondis products.
and develop new products on a sustainable, competitive and cost-effective basis.
Customers needs and purchasing power are changing in emerging markets.
Our focus is on products enjoying positive substitution dynamics and growing regional markets.
We work Factors that impact the demand for our products include with our customers to develop new markets and reduced weight of packaging materials: increased use newproducts.
of recycled materials: electronic substitution of paper products: increased demand for high-quality printed Our broad range of converting products provides some material: certified and responsibly produced goods: and protection from the effects of substitution between paper specific material qualities.
40 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Impact Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Response Our selling prices are determined by changes in capacity Our strategic focus is on higher-growth markets and Fluctuations and by demand for our products, which are, in turn, products where we enjoy a competitive advantage and variability in influenced by macroeconomic conditions, consumer through innovation, proximity or a production cost spending preferences and inventory levels maintained by advantage.
selling prices and our customers.
Changes in prices differ between products We continue to invest in our high-quality, low-cost gross margins and geographic regions and the timing and magnitude of production assets to ensure we maintain our competitive such changes have varied significantly over time.
Our high levels of vertical integration reduce our exposure to price volatility of our key input costs.
Our financial policies and structures are designed taking the inherent price volatility of the markets in which we operate into consideration.
We have production operations across more than We actively monitor all countries and environments in Country risk 30 countries, a number of which are in jurisdictions which we operate.
where the political, economic and legal systems are We engage in regular formal and informal interaction less predictable than in countries with more developed withthe authorities to ensure we remain abreast of institutional structures.
Political or economic upheaval, anynew developments.
inflation, changes in laws, nationalisation or expropriation New investments are subject to rigorous strategic of assetsmay have a material effect on our operations andcommercial evaluation.
We actively engage with our employees, communities Areas of weaker governance also present the challenge of and other stakeholders for a better understanding addressing potential human rights issues in our operations of the local socio-economic conditions and and supply chain.
From a human capital perspective, we developmentneeds.
face different demographic and social conditions in the Our geographic diversity and decentralised countries we operate in, affecting the availability of skills management structure, utilising local resources and talent for theGroup.
incountries in which we operate, reduces our exposure toany specific jurisdiction.
Wood, pulp and paper for recycling comprise We are committed to acquiring fibre from sustainable, Cost and approximately a third of our input costs.
We have access responsible sources and avoiding the use of any availability of to our own sources of wood in Russia and South Africa controversial or illegal supply.
and we purchase wood, pulp and paper for recycling to responsibly The sustainable management of our forestry operations meet our needs in the balance of our operations.
Wood is key in managing our overall environmental impact, produced wood, prices and availability may be adversely affected by helping to protect ecosystems and develop resilient reduced quantities of available wood supply that meet pulp and paper landscapes.
FSCor PEFC CoC standards and our company minimum We have built strong forestry management resources in forrecycling wood standard that complies with the standard for Russia and South Africa to actively monitor and manage Controlled Wood FSC-STD-40-005, as well as initiatives our wood resources in those countries.
to promote the use of woody biomass from residues of We have multiple suppliers for each of our mills and pulp and paper processes as a renewable energy source.
actively pursue longer term agreements with strategic suppliers of wood, pulp and paper for recycling.
We are involved in multi-stakeholder processes to address challenges in meeting the global demand for sustainable, responsible fibre.
Energy and related input costs comprise approximately We monitor our electricity usage, carbon emission Energy athird of our variable costs.
levels and use of renewable energy.
Most of our larger security and operations have high levels of electricity self-sufficiency.
Mondi is a significant consumer of electricity, which we related input generate internally and purchase from external suppliers.
We focus on improving the energy efficiency of our Where we dont generate electricity from biomass and operations and have invested in our operations to costs by-products of our production processes, we are improve our energy profile and increase electricity selfdependent on external suppliers for raw materials such sufficiency, while reducing ongoing operating costs and asgas, oil and coal.
As an energy-intensive business, we face potential To the extent that we generate electricity surplus to our physical and regulatory risks related to climate change.
own requirements, we may sell such surplus externally.
We also generate revenue from the sale of green energy credits in certain of our operations, the prices of which are determined in the open market.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 41 Our principal risks Risk Response We have five major mills which together account for Our capital investment programme supports the Technical approximately 70% of our total pulp and paper production replacement of older equipment to improve both integrity of capacity and a significant consumer packaging reliability and integrity and our proactive repair manufacturing facility in Germany.
If operations at any and maintenance strategy is designed to minimise our operating of these key facilities were interrupted for any significant breakdownrisks.
assets length of time, it could have a material adverse effect We conduct detailed risk assessments of our highon our financial position or performance.
Accidents or priority equipment and have specific processes and incidents such as fires, explosions or large machinery procedures in place for the ongoing management breakdowns, could result in property damage, loss of andmaintenance of such equipment.
production, reputational damage and or safety incidents.
We actively monitor all incidents and have a formal process which allows us to share lessons learnt across our operations, identify emerging issues, conduct benchmarking and evaluate the effectiveness of our risk reduction activities.
We operate in a high-impact sector and need to manage We ensure that we are complying with all applicable Environmental the associated risks and responsibilities.
Ouroperations environmental, health and safety requirements where impact are water, carbon and energy intensive: consume weoperate.
materials such as fibre, polymers, metals andchemicals: Our own policies and procedures, at or above local and generate emissions to air, water and land.
We are policy requirements, are embedded in all our operations.
thecustodian of more than two million hectares of We focus on a clean production philosophy to address forested land.
the impact from emissions, discharge and waste.
We are subject to a wide range of international, national We focus on increasing the energy efficiency of our and local environmental laws and regulations as well as operations and using biomass-based fuels, reducing the requirements of our customers and expectations of our use of fossil-based energy sources.
We emphasise our broader stakeholders.
the responsible management of forests and associated ecosystems, protecting high conservation value areas.
We operate large facilities, often in remote locations.
We have a zero harm policy.
We continually monitor Employee Accidents and incidents cause injury to our employees or incidents and close calls and actively transfer learnings and contractor contractors, property damage, lost production time and or across our operations.
safety We apply an externally accredited safety management system and conduct regular audits of our operations to support safe and productive workplaces.
We have implemented a project to engineer out the most significant risks in our operations, supported by robust controls and procedures for operating those assets.
Non-compliance with the legal and governance We operate a comprehensive training and Reputational requirements and globally established responsible complianceprogramme, supported by self-certification risk business conduct practices in any of the jurisdictions in and reporting.
which we operate could expose us to significant risk if Our legal and governance compliance is managed not actively managed.
These include laws relating to the at business unit level, supported by a central team of environment, exports, price controls, taxation, human relevant professionals, and is subject to regular internal rights and labour.
We also operate a confidential reporting hotline, Speakout, enabling employees, customers, suppliers, managers and other stakeholders to raise concerns about conduct that may be contrary to our values.
We increasingly work with our suppliers to promote responsible business conduct in the value chain.
Many of our operations are dependent on the availability We have a comprehensive IT Security Policy approved Information of IT services and an extended interruption of such by our Boards.
We conduct regular threat assessments technology services may result in plant shutdown.
Cyber crime and utilise external providers to evaluate and review our continues to increase and attempts are more and more security policies and procedures.
risk sophisticated, with the consequences of successful Where possible, we have redundancies in place, our attacks including compromised data, financial fraud and system landscape is based on well-proven products system shutdowns.
andwe have cyber crime insurance.
Our trading and financing activities expose the Group Our approach to financial risk management is described Financial to financial risks that, if left unmanaged, could adversely in our Chief financial officers review on pages 28 to 30 risks impact our financial position.
These risks relate to the and in note 30 of our Financial statements.
currencies in which we conduct our activities, interest rate and liquidity risks and exposure to customer credit risk.
42 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Going concern The directors have reviewed the Groups budget for 2016, considered the assumptions contained in the budget and reviewed the critical risks which may impact the Groups performance in the near term.
These include an evaluation of the current macroeconomic environment and reasonably possible changes in the Groups trading performance.
The Groups financial position, cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the annual financial statements.
At 31 December 2015, Mondi had 598 million of undrawn, committed debt facilities.
The Groups debt facilities have maturity dates of between 1 and 10 years, with a weighted average maturity of 3.6 years.
Based on their evaluation, the Boards are satisfied that the Group remains solvent and has adequate liquidity to meet its obligations and continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Integrated report and financial statements.
Viability statement As part of the approval of this integrated report, the Boards have assessed the Groups prospects and viability.
The Boards have reviewed the three-year period to December 2018, marking the end of the Groups planning horizon.
The Boards believe that the three years to December 2018 is an appropriate period over which a reasonable expectation of the Groups longer term viability can be evaluated.
In coming to this view, the Boards have considered the inherent volatility in commodity prices and exchange rates, the time taken for new investments in pulp and paper production capacity to be introduced into the market, typical new product development cycles and the Groups funding structure.
Mondis geographical spread, product diversity and large customer base mitigate potential risks of customer or supplier liquidity issues.
Ongoing initiatives by management in implementing profit improvement initiatives, which include ongoing investment in its operations: plant optimisation: cost-cutting: and restructuring and rationalisation activities, have consolidated the Groups leading positions in its chosen markets.
The Groups budget and plan has been tested for severe, but plausible, downside scenarios.
These include lower packaging and uncoated fine paper prices and weaker demand.
The potential impact of a weaker US dollar euro exchange rate and stronger emerging market currencies has also been evaluated.
Based on the results of these scenarios, the Boards are satisfied that the Group will be able to respond to such circumstances through various means, which may include a reduction of capital expenditure and further rationalisation and or restructuring, to ensure that the Group can continue to meet its ongoing obligations.
The Group meets its funding requirements from a variety of sources as more fully described in note 18 of the financial statements.
The Boards are satisfied that the Group will have sufficient liquidity to meets its needs over the planning horizon.
In the scenarios evaluated, the Group remains within its key financial covenant ratio in terms of which its net debt to trailing 12-month EBITDA ratio must not exceed 3.5 times.
Taking into account the Groups long-term strategy, the principal risks described above and the results of the scenario planning detailed above, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group remains viable over the period of the assessment.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 43
