Principal Risks & Uncertainties The table below summarises the Boards view of the material financial and operational risks to the Group and how the Group seeks to mitigate them.
Strategic aim: Best site Be the easiest way for people to find the right products for their needs Risk area and trend Description Risk type Mitigating activities Developments in 2015 The Insurance and Travel markets Loss of market share or reduction SR Evolution of existing platforms Competition have been more competitive in margins as a result of channels to improve customer during 2015, but our Money and and platforms not delivering experience and make Home Services businesses have expected benefits to customers comparing products easier.
We continued our capital investment programme and launched our new platform across our largest channels at MoneySuperMarket and TravelSupermarket.
Changing Reduction in customers if SR Regular engagement with We have continued our the Group fails to adapt to customers to understand technology investment consumer changing consumer behaviours changes in how they utilise programme, designed to ensure behaviour in using new technologies and the Groups services.
that our websites and apps are increasing use of mobile devices robust, flexible, secure and to access the internet or scalable across our different social media.
channels to meet the needs of our customers.
Strategic aim: Earn customer loyalty Trusted destination brands Risk area and trend Description Risk type Mitigating activities Developments in 2015 Loss of confidence by customers SR Innovation and development of We have launched new services Brand strength in the brands operated by the brands and services which help including MyProfile in Group resulting in reduced customers make the most of MoneySuperMarket and My engagement and loyalty their money.
We strengthened the Investment in advertising across MoneySavingExpert editorial a range of media to maintain code in the year in order to the Groups brands in further protect and enhance customers minds the brand.
The Group maintained marketing spend to deliver visitors direct to the Groups websites.
Reduction in customer loyalty OR The Group seeks to build strong Our Customer First programme Product offering with existing customers and an relationships with providers and helps our employees make sure inability to attract new customers operates rigorous checking of its we do the right thing for our if the business fails to maintain websites through audit and customers and users.
We have a competitive price and review to maintain the accuracy increased the size of our provider product offering.
base across all markets, particularly in Travel.
We have worked with providers to give our customers access to best in market offers and products and introduced new services such as pre-approval within credit cards.
Negative impact on reputation OR Rigorous controls and regular Our investment in new platforms Customer trust and loss of customer trust testing of the Groups systems and transfer to cloud gives us through the impact of an and infrastructure.
increased capability and operational event such as improved robustness as well as loss or misuse of customer putting customers in control of personal data.
how their personal data is held and used.
30 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Strategic aim: Preferred partner Be the best way for providers to acquire customers Risk area and trend Description Risk type Mitigating activities Developments in 2015 Providers may increase their SR The Group seeks to innovate in We have strengthened our Relevance to focus on customer retention the solutions and benefits it can relationships and worked closely partners rather than acquisition or offer to providers and maximise with providers in the seek alternative sources the opportunities for providers to development of new tools and of customer acquisition.
acquire customers in a cost services for our customers.
We shared with our providers our improved customer insights to help them understand what our customers want and how they can improve their products.
Core values One team always making things better for customers, providers and our business Risk area and trend Description Risk type Mitigating activities Developments in 2015 Economic Weaknesses in the economic SR Building strong relationships with The diversity of the Group environment may cause providers providers to ensure that the across a portfolio of brands uncertainty to reduce product range or Group is able to provide solutions and channels offers the Group tighten acceptance criteria for to the needs of providers.
protection from cyclical customers seeking to obtain economic changes.
This may reduce Focusing on maintaining control competition between providers of the cost base in order that the Our commercial teams focused and choice for consumers.
business is an efficient customer on building stronger relationships acquisition route for providers.
Changes to existing regulation or SR The Group Risk and Compliance The Group enhanced its Regulation the introduction of new function works across the processes for identifying and regulatory requirements which business to ensure it remains managing regulatory change.
It requires changes to the core compliant with existing regulation has also proactively engaged with business model in order to and is able to highlight where regulators including FCA, Ofgem comply.
changes may impact business and CMA on new and emerging processes.
Key Risk type: Strategic risk SR Operational conduct risk OR Risk trend: Increasing Decreasing Static Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 31
