Principal risks and uncertainties Looking forward, the Group will focus on the following key areas of risk: Risks Assessment Management Potential impact Concession and contract renewal Much of the Groups business Approximately 65% of the Groups total A reputation for high quality services helps High issecured through renewing revenue is either contract or concession to win and retain contracts.
The Group contracts and concessions, based.
These contracts vary in length hasagood record of retaining contracts particularly in our North andaretypically awarded for between ona historical basis: no national coach AmericaSchool Bus and Transit 12months and 20 years.
concession in Spain hasbeen lost before businesses, in Spain andin Rail.
and retention ratesin School Bus are Following the successful retention of the typically very high 98% in 2015 and 97% Essex Thameside rail franchise, the Group in2014.
has been shortlisted as a bidder for the Greater Anglia franchise In the UK.
The ALSA is well prepared to submit high quality Group continues to bid for rail contracts bids on its own and other concessions as inGermany and bus contracts in the and when they are called to tender.
The concession renewal process in Spainhas changed, with the most significant difference being the removal ofthe incumbent advantage.
Following ageneral delay in tendering, ALSA still currently expects about 50% of its nationalcoach concessions to be bid forin2016 and2017.
Economic conditions and austerity The economic outlook inNational Risk that revenues in the Bus, Coach and The Group seeks to mitigate theserisks High Express key territories continues Rail businesses in the UK and Spain are through proactive costcontrol, revenue tobe generally positive, although impacted by lower passenger demand: management systems, the careful economic government austerity measures in there is also some positive risk that modelling ofnew and existing contracts, the UK and Spaincontinue to be a theGroup will benefit from the prospect of including sensitivities around expected risk.
Whilst some of the Groups modal shift towards its forms of transport.
growth rates, and through sharing risk businesses have naturally defensive In Spain, the division may beaffected by withcontracting parties.
characteristics, some of the more the effects of austerity butmay benefit discretionary parts of the business from the outsourcing offurther urban may be adversely affected by busoperations.
Political and regulatory The Groups businesses are Changes in political and regulatory The risk is reduced by maintaining close Medium subject to numerous laws in the environments can have a significant impact relationships with key stakeholders and jurisdictions in which they operate, on regulated public transport operators, ensuring that theeconomic advantages of regulating the operation of from adding significant cost to changing ourbusiness models are fully understood concessions, safety procedures, thefundamental nature of a market.
equipment specifications, Forexample: In the longer term, the Group canmitigate employment requirements, The proposed new Buses Bill in the UKwill risk by diversifying its operations into environmental procedures provide new powers to local government othergeographies.
that are likely to have asignificant impact onthe bus industry in the medium term.
The Spanish Government has agreed the imposition of a fee on new concessions and the removal of a 5% incumbency advantage on new national intercity concessions.
Contract bidding The Group makes a significant An inherent risk in contract bidding is The Group seeks to mitigate the risk through Medium investment in bidding for new thatbid assumptions might prove to be careful economic modelling of new contracts, contracts and concessions.
If the Groups significant bid and bysharing revenue risk with the awarding assumptions prove to be incorrect, this body: for example with the Department for 2016 continues to see some could have an adverse effect on results Transport in Rail.
significant bidding activity, as ofthe operations and the Groups theGroup continues to seek Proper mobilisation is a key part financialcondition.
toexpand its operations in the ofensuringthat risk of divergence from Middle East and Germany.
30 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Risks Assessment Management Potential impact Contract mobilisation The mobilisation to deliver new While mobilisation is a core expertise of the Start-up activities are formally managed Medium services following a contract Group, operating in new geographies and withdedicated, skilledlocal teams award is involved, often requiring cultures increases the complexity and supported byGroup expertise.
Close the purchase of new vehicles challenge of successful new contract seniormanagement oversight ensures and in some cases, such as in start-up.
The Group successfully launched anykey risks or issues arerapidly Germany and the Middle East, a new bus operation in Bahrain and started escalatedand resolved.
thecreation of a new operating its new RME Rail franchise businessoperation.
The following are ongoing risks within the business: Fuel cost All of the Groups businesses are Fuel costs constitute approximately 10% The Group seeks to mitigate risks of Medium exposed to fuel costs primarily of the Groups costs and consequently, to increases in fuel costs by entering into fuel diesel for buses and coaches.
the extent that price increases cannot be swaps and forward purchase contracts in Fuel prices are subject to passed on to customers, increases infuel line with the Groups hedging strategy significant volatility due to costs will affectprofitability.
economic, political and climate circumstances.
Insurance and claims Medium The Groups policy is to There is a risk that a successful claim or Throughout the business, a strong safety self-insure a number of potential series of successful claims may result in culture prevails, led by the Safety & claims within its business.
substantially higher charges to profit and Environment Committee.
Where claims arise, cash outflow thanexpected.
they are managed by experienced claims handlers and professional advice is obtained in order to evaluate and minimise costs to theGroup.
Credit risk As contractual operations, Payment terms and cash collections Receivables in each business areclosely Low theNorth American and Spanish inNorthAmerica are extremely good.
monitored, based onrobust and thorough urban businesses areexposed to InSpainthe level of outstanding debt documentation: provisions are then made the risk thatcustomers are either isinlinewith historical levels.
where appropriate on aprudent basis for lateor unable to pay sums owed acertain level of non-collection.
contractual terms for interest accrual andrepayment of outstanding balances havebeenagreed with overdue .
Currency The Groups exposure to Foreign currency movements impact the The Group uses currency debt andcurrency Low overseas earnings through its profit, balance sheet and cash flows of swaps to reduce theimpact and mitigate the Spanish and North American the Group.
Over the course of 2015 the risk.
Inaddition, management has flexibility operations creates a risk that Euro continued to depreciate against to adjust Group capitalallocation.
movement in exchange rates Sterling whereas the US dollar continued may adversely impact translation to appreciate against Sterling.
The Group of profit and cashflows together holds Euro denominated debt and US with Group gearing.
Cyber security The digital world creates many The Group views cyber security The Group is committed to increase its Low risks for aglobal business asanemerging risk, which could resilience in its security strategy: and seeks including technology haveserious consequences for toassess and manage its ability toeffectively failures, loss of confidential data businessoperations.
defend against current andfuture cyber damage tobrand reputation.
risksby using analysis tools and experienced professionals to evaluate and mitigate potentialimpacts.
The Group relies upon a variety of IT systems in order to manage and deliver services and communciate with our customers, suppliers and employees.
We remain focused on the need to maximise the effectiveness of our information systems and technology asa business enabler and to manage both costs and exposure as a result.
