ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES The Board has a policy of continuous identification and review of key business risks and oversees the development of processes to ensure that these risks are managed appropriately.
Executive directors and operational management are delegated with the task of implementing these processes and reporting to the Board and Audit Committee on their outcomes.
The principal risks and uncertainties are described below: Description of risk or uncertainty How the risk or uncertainty is managed or mitigated BUSINESS STRATEGY DEVELOPMENT & IMPLEMENTATION If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy The Board reviews business strategy on a regular basis to or does not implement its strategies effectively, the determine how sales and profit budgets can be achieved business may suffer.
The Board therefore needs to or bettered, and business operations made more efficient.
understand and properly manage strategic risk in This process includes the setting of seasonal and annual order to deliver long term growth for the benefit of budgets and longer term financial objectives to identify NEXTs stakeholders.
ways to increase shareholder value.
Critical to these processes are the consideration of wider economic and industry specific trends that affect the Groups businesses, the competitive position of its product offer and the financial structure of the Group.
In addition, the Audit Committee monitors strategic and operational risk regularly and any significant matters are reported to the Board.
MANAGEMENT TEAM The success of NEXT relies on the continued The Remuneration and Nomination Committees identify service of its senior management and technical senior personnel, review remuneration at least annually personnel, and on its ability to continue to attract, and formulate packages to retain and motivate these motivate and retain highly qualified employees.
employees, including share incentive schemes.
In addition, The retail sector is very competitive and NEXTs the Board considers the development of senior managers staff may be targeted by other companies.
to ensure adequate career development opportunities for key personnel, with orderly succession and promotion to important management positions.
PRODUCT DESIGN & SELECTION NEXTs success depends on designing and Executive directors and senior management continually selecting products that customers want to buy, at review the design, selection and performance of NEXTs appropriate price points and in the right quantities.
This ensures, so far as possible, that there is This includes anticipating and responding to a well-balanced product mix that is good value for money, changing consumer preferences and trends, as and available in sufficient quantities and at the right time to well as taking into account the wider consumer meet customer demand.
To some extent, product risk is also and economic environment.
In the short term, a mitigated by the diversity of NEXTs ranges.
failure to properly manage this area may mean that NEXT is faced with surplus stocks that cannot be sold at full price and may have to be disposed of at a loss.
In the longer term, the reputation of the NEXT Brand may suffer.
Product design and selection is therefore at the heart of the business.
24 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 2 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc Description of risk or uncertainty How the risk or uncertainty is managed or mitigated KEY SUPPLIERS & SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT NEXT relies on its supplier base to deliver products NEXT continually seeks ways to develop its supplier base on time and to the quality standards it specifies.
so as to reduce over-reliance on individual suppliers of Failure to do so may result in an inability to service products and services, and maintain the quality and customer demand or adversely affect NEXTs competitiveness of its product offer.
assessment procedures for key suppliers identify alternatives and develop contingency plans in the event of key supplier failure.
Changes in global manufacturing capacity and Existing and new sources of supply are developed in costs may impact on profit margins.
conjunction with NEXT Sourcing, external agents and or direct suppliers.
Non-compliance by suppliers with the NEXT Code NEXT carries out regular inspections of its suppliers of Practice may increase reputational risk.
operations to ensure compliance with the standards set out in this code: covering production methods, employee working conditions, quality control and inspection processes.
Further details can be found on page 28.
NEXT also monitors and reviews the financial, political and geographical aspects of its supplier base to identify any factors that may affect the continuity or quality of supply of its products.
WAREHOUSING & DISTRIBUTION NEXT regularly reviews the warehousing and Planning processes are in place to ensure there is sufficient distribution operations that support the business.
warehouse handling capacity for expected future business Risks include business interruption due to physical volumes over the short and longer terms.
In addition, damage, access restrictions, breakdowns, service levels, warehouse handling, inbound logistics and capacity shortages, IT systems failure see next delivery costs are monitored continuously to ensure goods page, inefficient processes and third party are delivered to our warehouses, Retail stores and Directory failures.
customers in a timely and cost-efficient manner.
Business continuity plans and insurance are in place to mitigate the impact of business interruption.
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE NEXTs performance depends on the recruitment The Group continuously monitors website and call centre and retention of customers, and on its ability to operations that support the business to ensure that there is drive and service customer demand.
This includes sufficient capacity to handle volumes.
Capacity forecasting having an attractive, functional and reliable is used to manage peak demands and growth in business website and effective call centres, operating volumes.
successful marketing strategies, and providing Market research is used to assess customer opinions and both Retail and Directory customers with service satisfaction levels, and regular customer experience visits to levels that meet or exceed their expectations.
our stores help to ensure that our staff remain focussed on delivering excellent customer service.
25 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 4 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc STRATEGIC REPORT Description of risk or uncertainty How the risk or uncertainty is managed or mitigated RETAIL STORE NETWORK NEXT Retails performance depends on profitably The predominantly leased store portfolio is actively developing the trading space of the store managed by senior management, with openings, refits and network.
The successful development of new closures based on store profitability and cash payback.
stores depends on a number of factors including NEXT will continue to invest in new space where its financial the identification of suitable properties, obtaining criteria are met, and will renew and refurbish its existing planning permissions and the negotiation of portfolio when appropriate.
New store appraisals include acceptable lease terms.
Prime retail sites will the estimated effects of sales deflection from existing stores, generally remain in demand, and increased but there remains a risk that actual performance may differ competition for these can result in higher future from those estimates.
INFORMATION SECURITY, BUSINESS CONTINUITY & CYBER RISK NEXT is dependent upon the continued availability Systems vulnerability and penetration testing, business and integrity of its IT systems, which must record continuity plans and back up facilities are in place and and process substantial volumes of data and are tested regularly to ensure that business interruptions conduct inventory management accurately and are minimised and data is protected from corruption or quickly.
The Groups systems require continuous unauthorised access or use.
IT risks are also managed enhancement and investment to prevent through the application of internal policies and change obsolescence and maintain responsiveness.
The management procedures, contractual service level threat of unauthorised or malicious attack is an agreements with third party suppliers, and IT capacity on-going risk, the nature of which is constantly management.
The Audit Committee received regular briefings on cyber risk during the year see page 45.
FINANCIAL, TREASURY, LIQUIDITY & CREDIT RISKS The main financial risks are the availability of funds NEXT operates a centralised treasury function which is to meet business needs, default by counterparties responsible for managing its liquidity, interest and foreign to financial transactions, the effect of fluctuations currency risks.
The Groups treasury function operates under in foreign exchange rates and interest rates, and a Board-approved policy.
This includes approved countercompliance with regulation.
party and other limits which are designed to mitigate NEXTs exposure to financial risk.
Further details of the Groups treasury operations are given in Note 27 to the financial statements.
NEXT has a longstanding policy of returning surplus NEXT has adequate medium and long term financing in cash to shareholders through share buybacks place to support its business operations, and the Groups and special dividends, whilst maintaining an cash position and forecasts are regularly monitored and appropriate level of debt.
Adequate financing reported to the Board.
facilities are therefore required to support the operational needs of the business.
NEXT is also exposed to credit risk, particularly Rigorous procedures are in place with regard to the in respect of its Directory customer receivables, Groups Directory account customers, including the use which at 712m represents the largest item on the of external credit reference agencies and applying set risk Group balance sheet.
These procedures are regularly reviewed and updated.
