H T L A E H L A I C N A N I F Y T P I E C O I R P T L N E E E C N Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements process.
NMC follows a conservative including, for example, insurance, Risk management approach in risk taking and has standardised processes, delegation implemented controls and mitigation of authorities and succession plans, strategies in order to reduce those risks.
diversification in business and revenue streams.
The Strategic Risk Register, which is the basis for the list of principal risks and STRATEGIC RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES uncertainties, was developed using both In the table of strategic risks below, the a bottom up and top down assessment Board have set out the Groups strategic of business and strategic risks.
This new risks and the mitigating actions and strategic risk management process was controls taken against those risks.
It should implemented in Q4, 2014 and PwC have be noted that the order that these risks assisted management during the year in are expressed in the table does not reflect relation to the updating of the Groups an order of magnitude as regards their IDENTIFICATION OF RISK strategic risks in 2015. potential impact on the Group.
The Board The Board consider the identification Oversight of the System of Internal and mitigation of material risks and The bottom up exercise is conducted Control and Risk section on pages 60 to 63, uncertainties faced by the Group as a key through discussions and interviews in also sets out additional details of the issue to be monitored at all levels of the each of the Groups businesses.
The top governance framework and controls organisation.
The Board has overall down exercise includes meetings with in place within the Groups businesses responsibility for the Groups risk senior executives.
The output from the to monitor and control risk.
management and internal control aggregated results of the top down and systems.
The Senior Management team bottom up exercises produces a list of There have been no material changes ensure that operational management principal risks that are reviewed and made to the Groups strategic risk consider risk as part of their day to day agreed by the Senior Management Team register in 2015 or changes to the activities.
This is considered to be before being presented to, and discussed relative importance or materiality of any particularly key for NMC as a Group due by, the Board.
However, the Board has to both our current strategic expansion made a number of minor changes to the program and the fact that our businesses The Strategic Risk Register is reviewed list of principal risks, and the mitigation of are operating in regulated environments.
and maintained on an on-going basis by those risks during the 2015 financial year management, with the Board retaining principally relating to the challenges faced As there are multiple risks associated oversight and responsibility over the by the Group in the execution of its with our businesses, particularly the Register and the risk management strategic growth plan, in particular the healthcare sector, the process of Risk process.
Depending on the nature of the acquisitive nature of the Group and its Management is an essential mechanism risk involved, a variety of risk mitigation entry into new markets.
to enable a risk based decision making measures have been implemented KEY THEMATIC RISKS 1.
Delays in completion of new strategic expansion projects due to contractor or potential cash flow THE BIG PICTURE 2015 interruption and bad investment decisions may result in poor Return on Investment ROI, decreased margins and market share.
Increased competition due to high private and public investments in the healthcare sector and to associated investments coming from new entrants or existing player.
A Data Security e. g. VVIP patient records breach due to either intentional Investment 3.
Failing to innovate and to effectively malicious cyber-attack or unintentional deliver new services.
Inexperience of data or system loss resulting in operation in new markets offerings leads reputational damage, operational to missed opportunity or poor delivery.
Potential inability to improve NMCs 8.
Failure to comply with multi regulatory margin due to medical inflation and and standards bodies requirements pressure and bargaining from key could result in financial fines, inability NMC insurance providers.
to remove licenses, as well as NMC Strategy reputation damage.
Potential instability in revenue impairing cash flow and working capital health 9.
Failure to comply with internationally as a result of global and regional recognised clinical care and quality demographic, macro economic and standards, clinical negligence, the geopolitical factors.
mis-diagnosis of medical conditions or pharmaceuticals and the supply 6.
Failure to maximise the opportunity of unfit products across both divisions.
or acquisitions through successful Human Capital integration strategies or through successful integration strategies or through ineffective management structure or operating model.
Failure to retain acquire key professionals or inability to acquire sufficient Medical staff could potentially lead to inability to deliver required healthcare services and execute growth strategy.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37 R A E B M L E O T M S E U N C T E C N E L L E C X Technology Compliance Product Financial Macro-eco Competition E S E C I V R E S Strategic Report Risk management continued Risk Class Description and Potential Impact Current Mitigations Investment Delays in completion of new strategic expansion Board oversight in approving and monitoring projects due to contractor or potential cash flow strategic projects interruption and bad investment decisions may Project management controls result in: Detailed market and business appraisal processes Lower Return on Investment ROI : Lower revenue than expected: Decreased margins and market share: Potential for impairment of assets: Reputational issue leading to difficulty in raising future finance.
Competition Increased competition due to high private and Integrated Hub-Spoke model public investments in the UAE healthcare sector Growing healthcare network and associated investments coming from new Partnership with Government hospitals entrants or existing player partnerships would Diversification of patient base lead to market share loss and potential Variety in service offerings reduction in access to future growth in UAE healthcare spend.
Financial Failing to innovate and effectively deliver new Frequent monitoring of both fixed and services.
Inexperience of operating in new variable cost markets offerings leads to missed opportunity Synergy tracking and reporting or poor service delivery.
Acquiring the skills associated with the M&A transactions Financial Potential inability to improve NMCs margin due Diversification of the revenue streams to medical inflation and pricing pressure and Frequent monitoring of both fixed and bargaining from key insurance providers would variable cost result in less profitability Good relationships with insurance providers Strategy to increase patient volumes and focus on clinical specialisms M&A Strategy in new markets Macro-economic Potential instability in revenue impairing cash UAE is a stable and booming market to flow and working capital health as a result of operate in global and regional demographic, macroDiverse business and revenue streams economic and geopolitical factors.
Long Term debt facilities and unutilized working capital limits Strong banking and supplier relationships Financial Failure to maximize the opportunity of Proper due diligence acquisitions though successful integration Post-acquisition integration plan strategies or through ineffective management Rigorous analysis of value of the acquisition structure or operating model may results in: Focus on the corporate cultures involved Executive committee reporting and targets Increased market and regulatory legal Synergy tracking and reporting obligations: Acquiring the skills associated with the M&A Increased culture resistance and complexity transactions in shifting the governance model from enterprise to corporate structure: Increased operational exposure due to the complexity of integrating higher number of spokes to centralized hub of excellence: Increased investment risk due to weak due diligence and other mitigates.
38 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Technology A Data Security e. g. VIP patient records breach ISO 27001 certified framework for IT policies due to either intentional malicious cyber-attack and controls.
or unintentional data or system loss resulting in Strict measures towards clients data reputational damage, operational disruption or and records regulatory breach.
Investment in new Hospital Information System and ERP financial system approved by the Board and implementation in progress Compliance & Regulation Failure to comply with multi regulatory and Quality & Standards Department monitors standards bodies requirements could result in regulatory changes financial fines, inability to renew licenses, as well Partnership with government as NMC reputation damage.
Good relationships with regulators and accrediting organizations Continuous focus on delivering high levels of service Product & Service Failure to comply with internationally recognized Doctors subject to rigorous licensing clinical care and quality standards, clinical procedures which operate in the UAE negligence, the misdiagnosis of medical Healthcare division is a regulated business conditions or pharmaceuticals and the supply and the Groups three principal hospitals of unfit products across both divisions could have international quality standards result in regulatory sanction, licence removal, accreditation significant reputational damage, loss of patient Many aspects of the operation of the and customer confidence and potential criminal Distribution division, including the sale of proceedings.
pharmaceuticals, is regulated in the UAE Board oversight and integrated governance structure Medical malpractice insurance to cover any awards of financial damages Continuous training and development programs Human Capital Failure to retain acquire key professionals or Partnership with education institutes inability to acquire sufficient Medical staff could Effective sourcing strategies & recruitment potentially lead to inability to deliver required campaigns healthcare services and execute growth Ongoing review of senior management strategy.
resources and succession plans in place for key positions Competitive salary packages, growth and good working conditions act as a good retention tool Clear career path for staff and continuous training and development programs As recommended by provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have considered a formal long-term assessment of the prospects and viability of the Group.
As part of this assessment, the Board considered the potential impact of three principal risk themes facing the Group.
The Boards viability statement is set out on page 89.
The Group Strategic Report set out on pages 6 to 39 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: DR B. R. SHETTY Executive Vice Chairman & CEO NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 Governance Governance In this section: 41 Corporate governance report 65 Directors remuneration report 84 Directors report 40 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
