Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic risks Description of risk Risk management The Groups planned development The Group has formed an experienced Development projects, in particular GTU3 and well project management team and expects to projects drilling, are subject to customary risks benefit from the technical expertise and related to delay, non-completion and cost significant experience gained from the overruns, which could impact future construction of GTU-1 and GTU-2 in the production and the Groups performance.
The project management team reports on a monthly basisto senior management and the Board onthe progress of engineering, procurement and construction.
The Group has concluded the majority of the procurement process in relation to GTU3 and monitors logistics, engineering, expedition ofmaterials and equipment on an ongoing basis.
JSC OGCC KazStroyService has been engaged to construct GTU-3, having gained experience on similar projects including GTU-1 and GTU-2 and other large projects in Kazakhstan.
Senior management and the Board constantly monitor the timing, scope and performance of the drilling programme and tailor it taking into account the status of the GTU3 project and current oil prices.
For each well a detailed drilling programme is approved by senior management, which is the basis against which the progress of works and costs are reported.
The Group is exposed to the risk that The Groups hedging policy is that, upon Commodity itsfuture earnings will be adversely entering into longer-term non-scalable capital price risk impacted by changes in the market price expenditure commitments, it will hedge its of crude oil, given that all sales prices of liquids production.
crude oil and condensate are based on InJanuary 2016, Nostrum announced that it market prices.
Crude oil prices are had rolled its pre-existing hedge into a new influenced by factors such as OPEC hedge of 15,000 bopd with a strike price of actions, political events and supply and US$49.16 per barrel.
The cost of the hedge demand fundamentals.
was paid entirely from the sale of the The Group could also be compelled by Companys previous hedge for US$92m.
governmental authorities, purportedly Thenew hedge has 24-month tenor, maturing acting based on Kazakh legislation, to sell in December 2017, with cash settlement on its gas domestically at prices determined aquarterly basis.
by the Kazakh government, which could Senior management and the Board be significantly lower than prices which continuously monitor the timing, scope and the Group could otherwise achieve.
performance of the drilling programme taking into account the oil price environment.
Additionally, in 2015 the Group started exporting the majority of its dry gas under a new contract.
The export prices are usually substantially higher than domestic prices.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 61 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risks Description of risk Risk management The Groups activities in the Chinarevskoye The Group has a team of dedicated specialists Single revenue oil and gas condensate field are currently who assess possible acquisitions of oil and source and the Groups sole source of revenue.
In 2013 the Group acquired subsoil use rights for three oil and business gas fields near the Chinarevskoye field.
In interruption 2016, the drilling programme will initially be set targeting the addition of three new production wells at Chinarevskoye as well as the completion of an appraisal well on the Rostoshinskoye field.
The drilling programme is reviewed on a quarterly basis and can be scaled up at short notice.
A supplementary agreement for the Rostoshinskoye field has been signed extending the exploration period until February 2017.
In addition, Nostrums approach made during 2015 to the board of Tethys Petroleum Limited regarding a possible offer to acquire the company represents an example of the Groups further efforts towards diversification of the Groups portfolio of assets.
This offer was subsequently withdrawn by Nostrum.
The Group is subject to the risk that if The Group has a department of highly skilled Estimation of there are inaccurate assessments and geologists, who perform periodic oil and gas overstatement of the oil and gas reserves assessments of the oil and gas reserves the Groups non-current assets and inaccordance with international standards reserves goodwill may be overstated or impaired.
The results of the This may also be a consequence of assessments are reviewed by the Groups unsuccessful exploration of the new fields independent reserve consultant, Ryder Scott.
and may also result in inappropriate decision-making.
Compliance risks Description of risk Risk management The Group may have disagreements with The Group believes that it is in full compliance Subsoil use the Kazakh government regarding its with the terms of its PSA for the Chinarevskoye agreements subsoil operations or compliance with field and maintains an open dialogue with Kazakh governmental authorities regarding all theterms of its subsoil use agreements.
of its subsoil use agreements.
In the event of non-compliance with a provision of any such agreement the Group endeavours to have such terms modified and pays any penalties and fines that may apply.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 62 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Compliance risks Description of risk Risk management The legal framework for environmental The Group has further strengthened its Environmental protection and operational safety is not QHSEdepartment during 2015.
The Groups compliance yet fully developed in Kazakhstan and, QHSE policies are periodically revised to given the changing nature of ensure compliance with changes and new environmental regulations, there is requirements in this area.
Key indicators such ariskthat the Group will not be in full as GHG emissions, lost-time injuries, waste compliance with all such regulations management, etc.
as well as progress of atalltimes.
workis reported to senior management on amonthly basis.
Periodic training on the requirements of policies and regulations are held for employees.
The Group is working towards obtaining ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems and ISO 50001 EnergyManagement Systems certification.
The Group also regularly commissions independent environmental audits to monitor its compliance and best practice in this area.
There is a risk that the Groups employees The Group has adopted an anti-bribery Perceived risk of will unintentionally or deliberately take andcorruption policy, and has included a non-compliance actions prohibited by anti-bribery provision on this subject in the Groups Code legislation given the perceived of Conduct and conducted training for with anti-bribery heightened risk in the jurisdiction in employees in relation to their obligations legislation whichthe Group operates.
Financial risks Description of risk Risk management The uncertainty of application, including The Group regularly challenges, either with Tax law retroactive application, of tax laws and the Kazakh tax authorities or through the uncertainty the evolution of tax laws in Kazakhstan Kazakh courts, tax assessments that it believes create a risk of additional payments of are inapplicable to it, either pursuant to the terms of its subsoil use agreements or taxfrom assessments which the Group believes are inapplicable to it.
The Group is subject to the risk of Liquidity requirements are monitored on a Going concern encountering difficulties in raising funds monthly basis and management ensures that and liquidity risk to meet commitments associated with sufficient funds are available to meet any itsfinancial liabilities and respective commitments as they arise.
The treasury inappropriateness of going concern policy provides for the Group to maintain a assumptions.
minimum level of cash of US$50 million.
The risks listed above do not comprise all those associated with the Groups business and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the Groups business.
The risks listed above are continuously monitored by the management team and assessed when making business decisions.
This strategic report is approved by the Board.
Kai-Uwe Kessel Jan-Ru Muller Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 29 March 2016 29 March 2016 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 63 Corporate governance Committed to excellence in our governance 65 Chairmans overview 66 Board of directors 68 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC management team 68 Zhaikmunai LLP management team 70 Corporate governance approach 82 Audit Committee Report 88 Nomination and Governance Committee Report 89 Remuneration Committee Report 90 Annual report on remuneration 98 Directors remuneration policy 104 Directors Report Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 64 64 Annual Report 2015
