Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Risk management Identification and assessment of the Groups key risks result of the changing environment.
These significant risks The Board acknowledges its responsibility for determining are discussed in more detail below in the section Principal the significant risks which may potentially affect the Group risks and uncertainties.
in achieving its strategic objectives.
A Group-wide risk Risk assessment and management assessment is performed periodically to identify the nature The Group has in place risk management processes and and extent of such risks and determine appropriate procedures which are formalised in the Risk Management mitigating actions.
Policy, reflecting the following process: In 2013 the Group formalised the Directors Risk Register, The Risk Management Policy contains a description of the which identified the risks and associated mitigating risk management process consisting of the following cycle controlactivities and future actions.
These identified of coordinated activities: riskswere aggregated and categorised into the following risk categories: UHFRJQLWLRQ RU LGHQWLILFDWLRQ RI ULVNV strategic: UDQNLQJ RU HYDOXDWLRQ RI ULVNV operational: UHVSRQGLQJ WR VLJQLILFDQW ULVNV financial: and WROHUDWH ZKHQ LW LV RXWVLGH WKH URXSV DELOLW to mitigate: compliance.
WUHDW E UHGXFLQJ LWV LPSDFW RU OLNHOLKRRG Based on this risk register and further analysis and ofoccurrence: discussions the executive management and the Board periodically review previously identified significant risks, WUDQVIHU WR D WKLUG SDUW update their likelihood of occurrence and potential impact, WHUPLQDWH WKH DFWLYLW FUHDWLQJ WKHP and identify potential new significant risks emerging as a Risk assessment and management Review and confirmation by the Board Board Risks and mitigation measures validated with Audit Committee the executive management and presented to the Audit Committee for review The Audit Committee performsan ongoing review ofthe significant risks as wellascontrols put in place tomitigate those risks bymanagement As from January 2015 for the purposes of Executive Committee internal risk management procedures, the Companys Executive Committee replaced the executive management The internal audit manager, who is also Internal audit manager acting as the Groups Risk Manager, consolidates the operating companies and Group risks to compile the Groups risk register and key risks Senior management of Senior management of Groupfunctions operating companies Senior management identify the key Local management create a register risks and develop mitigation actions of their top ten risks and mitigation actions Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 59 Risk management continued UHVRXUFLQJ FRQWUROV as medium-term development plans as described on pages 22-23 the Board assesses its five-year financial UHDFWLRQ SODQQLQJ projections.
In addition, such financial projections are supported by thefive-year drilling program mentioned UHSRUWLQJ DQG PRQLWRULQJ ULVN SHUIRUPDQFH inthe Chief Executives review on page 14.
Finally, these UHYLHZLQJ WKH ULVN PDQDJHPHQW IUDPHZRUN mediumandlong-term planning processes are cascaded down to a budgeting and forecasting process, which In 2015, the processes related to risk management and incorporates preparation of the draft annual budget for next internal control systems were consistent with the UK year in the fourth quarter of every calendar year, which is Corporate Governance Code and the Guidance on Risk reviewed andapproved by theBoard, and preparation of Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and quarterly forecasts during theyear for the Boards review.
Business Reporting issued in September 2014.
The Board has chosen a five-year period to December 2020 Changes from prior year risk assessment as a reasonable time-frame, over which it is possible to form During 2015 the Board and senior management remained a reasonable expectation as to the Groups longer-term conscious of the same principal risks and uncertainties viability, given the inherent uncertainty involved.
This period which were identified and disclosed in the 2014 Annual representing the period used for the Groups mid-term Report and the related risk assessments did not significantly business plans has been selected because it provides the change.
However, particular attention was paidto the Board and therefore readers of the annual report with following areas: areasonable degree of confidence whilst still providing anappropriate longer-term outlook.
FRPPRGLW SULFH ULVN LQ YLHZ RI WKH FXUUHQW PDUNHW oilpriceenvironment and related impact on future The corporate planning process is closely linked with the performance and investments of the Group: risk management process described on pages 58-59.
Forthe purpose of the Groups viability assessment various ULVNV UHODWHG WR 78 FRQVWUXFWLRQ DQG GULOOLQJ scenarios are considered on the basis of the five-year cash programme: flow model for the purpose of testing its sensitivity to the ULVNV UHODWHG WR UHSDLU ZRUNV RQ JDV SLSHOLQHV XVHG E significant risks listed on pages 60-61 to the extent such theGroup similar to the instance which occurred in 2015, assessment of the risks is practicable, also including a which is considered as part of the principal risk of severe but plausible scenario, resulting from a combination singlerevenue source and business interruption: of those risks.
The scenarios take into account the availability and likely effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could WKH HIIHFW RI GHYDOXDWLRQ RI WKH.
D]DNK 7HQJH DJDLQVW be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the USDollar on income taxes and related future cash flows: underlying risks and that realistically would be open to the The principal risks and uncertainties are presented on the Group in the circumstances.
In considering the likely following pages grouped into the four above-mentioned effectiveness of such actions, the conclusions of the Boards categories.
regular monitoring and review of risk and internal control systems are taken into account.
The assumptions used for In addition, in line with the requirements of the 2014 UK the purpose of the assessment of longer-term viability are Corporate Governance Code the Board made a robust consistent with the assumptions used in the budgeting & assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by forecasting process and include assumptions about the the Group, including those that would threaten its business results of the drilling program, the completion of GTU3, the model and future performance, also included as part of a subsequent uptake of production, the ability to refinance longer-term viability assessment.
debt as it falls due and consistent sales performance.
Viability statement The directors paid particular attention to the risks The Groups corporate planning process includes associated with development projects as well as commodity mediumand long-term financial projections and analysis as price risk, which may impact the Groups ability to meet its well as annual budgeting and forecasting.
The long-term liabilities, including the repayment of its Notes due in 2019. financial model extends through 2032, i. e. the licence term Based on these assessments and other matters considered of the Chinarevskoye field, currently the main production by the Board during the year, the Board has a reasonable source of the Group.
The long-term model supports the expectation that the Group will be able to continue in Boards activities described on pages 71 to 72, including operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the annual strategic planning and decision-making processes.
For the purpose of monitoring the Groups performance in terms ofstrategic objectives, related KPIs and risks, as well Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 60 Annual Report 2015
