com stock code: NTG Principal risks and uncertainties Evaluation is defined as Risk Impact before mitigation Mitigation Evaluation Managements assessment of The high level of operational gearing in Should there be a significant economic downturn the flexible nature of the Groups business model allows any whether the risk factor has: Economic Environment 1 our business model means that changes vehicles returned to be placed with different customers.
Alternatively, utilisation can be maintained through The demand for our products and services could be Increased in demand can lead to higher levels of purchasing fewer vehicles, increasing disposals or a combination of the two.
Although this may affect short affected by a downturn in economic activity in the variability in profits.
term profitability it generates cash and reduces debt.
Decreased countries in which the Group operates.
An adverse change in macro-economic No individual customer contributes more than 5% of total revenue generated, and ongoing credit analysis is Stayed the same conditions could also increase the risk of performed on new and existing customers to assess credit risk.
customer failure and therefore incidences Economic conditions in Spain have improved and the business has successfully diversified its customer base, since the prior year.
particularly away from the construction sector, which was particularly badly affected by the recession.
An increasing proportion of customers in Spain are now signed up to direct debit payments or advanced payments, further reducing the risk of customer failure.
As our business is highly operationally As the Group continues to focus on return on capital, all hire rates offered to customers must exceed certain Competition and hire rates 2 geared any decrease in hire rates will hurdle rates.
The markets in which the Group operates are impact profit and shareholder returns to a Our current pricing strategy is focused on ensuring that we charge an appropriate price for the product and fragmented and competitive, with competitors greater extent.
ancillary services provided, which reflects the benefits provided to our customers.
Although flexible rental is not often pursuing aggressive pricing strategies to necessarily the cheapest option it will attract customers for whom it is the best option and protect the Group increase their market share.
This leads to a risk from solely price led competition.
of the Group being forced to reduce hire rates to retain current business or attract new customers.
The Board is currently reviewing the Groups route to market, which will include a review of our marketing strategy and reinforcing the benefits of our product offering through training of commercial teams.
There is a risk that lack of understanding of the Groups product offering and low brand awareness could lead to the Group not taking full advantage of the opportunities open to it.
An increase in holding costs, if not Pricing is negotiated with manufacturers on an annual basis in advance of purchases being made.
Variable Vehicle holding costs 3 recovered through hire rate increases, supply terms allow us flexibility to make purchases as required throughout the year.
The profitability of the Group is dependant would adversely affect profitability, Whilst the Group is exposed to fluctuations in the used vehicle market, we have sought to increase the level of upon minimising vehicle holding costs, which shareholder returns and cash generation.
sales made through our more profitable retail channel.
Should the market experience a short term decline in are affected by the pricing levels of new vehicles residual values, we can age our existing fleet until such time as the market improves.
purchased and the disposal value of vehicles sold.
Failure to invest in our workforce and Personal development plans and tailored training are conducted for all employees.
Salaries are benchmarked Employees and the working 4 high levels of staff turnover will impact against the market and a range of incentives are provided to attract and retain staff.
Succession plans are in environment upon customer service and delivery of the place for executive positions.
Failure to attract, develop and retain individuals Groups strategic objectives.
Regular communication and engagement with everyone across the business is vital to our success.
with the appropriate skills will inhibit the successful Failures in health and safety would put The Group Health and Safety and Internal Audit functions are responsible for delivering health and safety best delivery of our strategy.
the reputation of the business at risk, practice and reporting any non-compliance to the Board.
Inadequate maintenance of our vehicles and a both in terms of attracting and retaining Our scheduling and compliance department is overseen by Internal Audit and ensures that vehicles are working environment where individuals do not talent and maintaining customer maintained to the required standards.
receive appropriate training and support could relationships.
place employees and customers employees at risk Our recruitment processes seek to attract from failures in health and safety.
individuals who will exemplify our core values of professionalism, team work and can do attitude.
Each new joiner receives an introduction to the companys culture as well as our processes.
Should IT systems fail, whether the cause The Group has an appropriate business continuity plan in the event of disruption arising from an IT systems IT systems 5 is accidental or malicious, this could failure.
The Groups business involves a high number have an adverse impact on both the Before any material system changes are implemented a project plan is approved by the Board.
A member of the of operational and financial transactions across ongoing operations of the Group and executive team will then lead the project and an ongoing implementation review will be performed by either numerous sites which rely on the continuous the recording and processing of financial Internal Audit or external consultants where appropriate.
The objective is always to minimise the risk of business operation of our IT systems.
disruption that could result from changes.
Failure to maintain or extend access The Groups existing facilities mature in June 2018 and the Group believes that these facilities provide adequate Access to capital 6 to credit facilities could impact on the resources for present requirements.
The Group requires capital to replace vehicles at Groups abilities to continue as a going The Group reviews its compliance with covenants on a monthly basis in conjunction with cash flow forecasts to the end of their rental life and for any growth in concern.
The impact of access to capital on the wider risk of going concern is considered on page 30.
The Group therefore requires continued access to adequate credit facilities to remain in compliance with its financial covenants.
23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 STRATEGIC Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts REPORT for the year ended 30 April 2015 34 35 Risk Impact before mitigation Mitigation Evaluation The high level of operational gearing in Should there be a significant economic downturn the flexible nature of the Groups business model allows any Economic Environment 1 our business model means that changes vehicles returned to be placed with different customers.
Alternatively, utilisation can be maintained through The demand for our products and services could be in demand can lead to higher levels of purchasing fewer vehicles, increasing disposals or a combination of the two.
countries in which the Group operates.
An adverse change in macro-economic No individual customer contributes more than 5% of total revenue generated, and ongoing credit analysis is conditions could also increase the risk of performed on new and existing customers to assess credit risk.
customer failure and therefore incidences Economic conditions in Spain have improved and the business has successfully diversified its customer base, of bad debts.
