Strategic Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 11.
How We Manage Our Risks The key features of our system of internal control interest rates, so as to ensure liquidity and The Risk Management and risk management, including those relating to minimise financial risk: Framework the financial reporting process, are: a food and product technology department, Ocados risk management process is designed to an organisational structure with clear responsible for designing and monitoring improve the likelihood of delivering our business segregation of duties, control and authority, and compliance with Ocados processes for the objectives, protect the interests of our key a framework of policies covering all key areas: procurement and handling of foods and other stakeholders, enhance the quality of our decision goods for resale: and making, and assist in the safeguarding of our a system of financial reporting, business assets, including people, finances, property and planning and forecasting processes: other control measures outlined elsewhere reputation.
in this Annual Report including legal and a capital approval policy that controls Ocados regulatory compliance and health and safety.
The Board is responsible for the identification of capital expenditure and a post-completion Ocados key strategic and emerging risks, and for review process for significant projects: What We Addressed in 2015 the review and approval of the risk management monitoring the progress of major projects by The process described on this page for identifying, framework.
The Audit Committee, delegated by management, the Executive Directors and the evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Board, is responsible for the independent Board: the Group operated during the period and up to the review of the effectiveness of risk management, date of this Annual Report.
Such a system can only the system of internal control, and the monitoring a Risk Committee which monitors Ocados risk provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance, as of the quality of financial statements and control processes: it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the consideration of any findings reported by the an Information Security Committee which risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
auditors,  PwC, in monitors Ocados information security: relation to Ocados control environment and its During 2015, Ocado continued to enhance its financial reporting procedures.
an Internal Audit & Risk function that provides approach to risk management.
This included independent assurance on key programmes the introduction of a revised risk management and controls: policy at the start of the year, implementation of working practices to support this policy, and the a treasury policy overseen by a Treasury enhancement of our capability for information Committee that manages Ocados cash and security and business continuity.
deposits, investments, foreign exchange and 1.
Our strategy informs the setting of objectives across the 1. business and is widely communicated.
Executive Directors evaluate the most significant strategic risks for the Group.
In addition, each divisional Director prepares a risk register for their respective division, highlighting their significant risks.
The Risk Committee oversees risk control processes and risk analysis from each part of the business, and reviews these top down and bottom up representations to ensure that no significant risks have been omitted.
Divisional directors identify how they will manage or Risks Management Risks mitigate their significant risks.
These actions are then summarised into a description of the Group-wide mitigation process for each risk.
Group-wide risks and mitigation processes are regularly reviewed by the Risk Committee and by the Audit Committee.
Implement Mitigation 38 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Strategic Report During 2015, we continued to implement the control, covering all significant controls including 2016 will see corporate responsibility publish Corporate Responsibility strategy across the financial, operational, compliance controls, and a standalone report, providing more detailed business with integration of our four pillars risk management systems.
content on issues of continued interest to strategy across the relevant departments stakeholders.
For further information on the review of financial refer to page 42.
We established a Corporate reporting, refer to page 64 of the Audit Committee The Internal Audit & Risk function will continue Responsibility Committee to provide a governance report.
to provide independent and objective assurance structure for all corporate responsibility risks.
This and advisory services designed to add value and is comprised of senior management personnel What We will be Looking at in 2016 improve the operations of the business.
Its scope from areas of the business impacted by or able encompasses the examination and evaluation Activities to improve our strategic, programme and to influence corporate responsibility, including of the adequacy and effectiveness of Ocados operational risk management capabilities, including Management Committee members.
governance, risk management and internal business continuity and information security, will The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, control processes.
Our trading strategy is reviewed undertook an annual review of the effectiveness and amended as necessary to reflect the increasingly of risk management and the system of internal competitive grocery trading environment.
The Directors rely on a number of existing processes to justify their viability Assessment of the Groups prospects assessment.
The annual budget, which provides a greater level of certainty of outcome The Directors have assessed the Groups prospects, both as a going concern and its than the longer-term plans, is used to set targets for the Group and is used by the viability longer term.
This assessment informs the following distinct statements: Remuneration Committee to set performance targets for the annual incentive plan.
A longer term business model provides less certainty of outcome, but provides a 1.
The Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of sensible planning tool against which strategic decisions can be made.
This plan accounting in the preparation of the Companys and Groups financial statements.
contemplates the input of a number of different strategic initiatives, including possible 2.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will Ocado Smart Platform transactions, possible trials of new technology, possible be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the participation of Morrisons in new CFCs and potential increases in CFC capacity.
The period of their assessment.
plans make assumptions about the business including projected capital expenditure, financing requirements, available finance and compliance with any financial Both assessments are closely linked to the Directors robust assessment of the principal covenants.
risks facing the Group including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, which is outlined on pages 40 and 41.
To assist the Directors assessment, the financial projections in the longer term business model were subject to severe but plausible stress tests whereby certain key Going concern statement assumptions were adjusted downwards, notably a material decline in the rate of sales growth and lower gross margins or increase in operating costs and a combination Accounting standards require that the directors satisfy themselves that it is reasonable thereof.
The tests were intended to show various outcomes including the impact for them to conclude whether it is appropriate to prepare financial statements on a on the Groups net debt and cash flow over the three years and an assessment on going concern basis.
There has been no material uncertainty identified which would the impact on the financial covenants in the revolving credit facility, all of which are cast significant doubt upon the Groups ability to continue using the going concern relevant to assessing the solvency and liquidity of the Group in this context.
A decline basis of accounting for the 12 months following the approval of this Annual Report.
in sales growth or margins or increase in operating costs can result from a range In assessing going concern, the Directors take into account the Groups cash flows, of principal risks in the retail business including failure by the Group to maintain solvency and liquidity positions and borrowing facilities.
At period end, the Group a competitive pricing position, a decline in customer service levels and a delay in had cash and cash equivalents of 45.8 million, external gross debt excluding finance implementing new capacity.
The Directors assessment also took into account the leases payable to MHE JVCo of 53.3 million and net current liabilities of 59.5 other principal risks that could have an impact on the future performance of the Group million.
The Group has a mix of short and medium term finance arrangements and and those that would threaten its business model, solvency or liquidity and also the has an unutilised 210 million revolving credit facility which contains typical financial likely effectiveness of any proposed mitigating actions see pages 40 and 41. covenants and runs until July 2019.
The Group forecasts its liquidity requirements, The above considerations form the basis of the Boards reasonable expectations that working capital position and the maintenance of sufficient headroom against the the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due financial covenants in its borrowing facilities see below.
The financial position of the over the three year period from approval of this Annual Report.
Group, including information on cash flow, can be found in Our Financials on pages 120 to 189.
In determining whether there are material uncertainties, the Directors The external auditors have reviewed these statements and have nothing to report see consider the Groups business activities, together with factors that are likely to affect its the Independent Auditors report on pages 120 to 126. future development and position see Section 7 Our Strategy on pages 16 to 23 and the Groups principal risks and the likely effectiveness of any mitigating actions and For more information see the Audit Committee Report controls available to the Directors see pages 40 and 41. on pages 63 to 67 Viability statement In addition to the going concern assessment, the Directors have considered the viability of the business.
The Code requires that the Directors assess the prospects of the Group over an appropriate period of time selected by them.
The Directors have considered whether the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period from approval of this Annual Report.
Although the Groups strategic plan forecasts beyond three years, the Directors took into account the impact on forecast outcomes of the rapid growth of the business and its changing strategic opportunities among other factors in concluding that three years was the most appropriate period for assessing the Groups prospects.
39 slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 11.
How We Manage Our Risks continued Key: Risk has Increased Risk has Decreased No Change Not applicable Strategic Change during Objective Risks Mitigation Action Control the Year Failure to maintain competitive Continuation of our LPP basket matching price comparison pricing position Maintaining a competitive number of promotional offers and increased availability of free delivery slots for price sensitive customers Due to increased competition Driving Growth Creation of a choice of tiered price points within each category in the market Risk of decline in high service levels Weekly monitoring of the key indicators and the underlying drivers against published targets Failure to develop retail Growth of the Ocado own-label range alongside continued provision of the proposition to appeal to broader Waitrose range customer base and sustain growth Growth of branded ranges and expansion of supplier base rates Alternative sourcing scenarios considered in the event that the Waitrose sourcing relationship terminates Continuation of investment and optimisation of the marketing channels to acquire new customers Continued improvement of webshop and apps Failure to develop sufficient Second and third overseas technology centres opened management and technology Improved IT prioritisation process capability or bandwidth to deliver on all our strategic priorities Risk of not signing multiple OSP Investment in our platform which enables OSP is also required for Ocados deals in the medium term expanding Retail business.
Initial deployment will be in CFC Andover and CFC Erith Impact of not signing multiple OSP deals in the medium term is restricted to the lost opportunity to increase our earnings from our Platform business The amount of capital invested in our platform is carefully controlled and we have the ability to reduce costs by scaling back the speed of the development A risk of delays in the Dedication of resources to the modularisation of technology and logistics systems implementation of new capacity to enable faster replication for both Ocado and Morrisons New capacity in development at CFC Andover and CFC Erith Future new capacity is reliant Maximising Regular Executive Board steering and full Board reporting of new technology on new, unproven technology Efficiency projects Technological innovation Engagement with a wide number of international grocers to understand market supersedes our own and offers needs improved methods of food Experienced teams in place who understand the current solutions and are aware of Utilising distribution to consumers global alternatives used in other industries Proprietary Knowledge Failure to protect our IP Processes to identify patentable inventions and to apply for patents Established Ocado Innovation Committee to review our patent portfolio and discuss other IP issues Multiple patents now filed although the value of IP has increased, so increasing the value to others Failure to ensure that our Conducting freedom to operate searches on selected technologies technology can be freely operated without infringing a third partys IP 40 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Strategic Report Strategic Change during Objective Risks Mitigation Action Control the Year A risk of a food safety or product Experienced legal, food and product technology professionals monitor compliance safety incident against policies and procedures Supplier approval and certification process Operational Supplier and product Food and product safety policies and quality management with appropriate numbers have increased and operational procedures the market has become more sensitive to food and product safety issues A risk of changes in regulations Regular monitoring of regulatory developments to ensure that changes are impacting our retail business identified model or the viability of OSP deals Monitoring operational performance to minimise environmental impact Regulatory due diligence carried out at appropriate stages in the OSP process Risk of major cyber-attack or data IT systems are structured to operate reliably and securely loss Denial of service protection service is in place The security of our IT systems is regularly tested by third parties No customer payment card data is held in Ocados databases Access to customer personal data is restricted to those who need this information as part of their job Business interruption IT systems are structured to operate reliably and securely Dedicated engineering teams on site with daily maintenance programmes to support the continued operation of equipment Insurers advise on engineering and risk management in the design and operation of the CFCs High level of protection for CFCs and equipment A risk of unintentional Issued a revised competition compliance policy in 2014 infringement of competition Tailored learning tools rolled out with annual refresher for all personnel involved legislation in accessing Morrisons data or providing services to Morrisons Physical and technical firewalls installed to ensure Ocados Retail business is protected and kept separate from the operational teams providing services to Morrisons For further information on the financial risks, see page 158 of the notes to the financial statements.
Read more about financial risks on Read about Our Strategy on See the KPIs that measure the page 158 pages 16 to 23 success of our strategy on page 36 41 slugline
