Strategy Principal risks Ophirworks in often challenging environments that present risks toitsactivities, operational sites and assets.
Managing these risks iscriticalto address uncertainty, protect Ophir and create value.
Theriskmanagement process continued to be developed in 2015 andwill be further strengthened in 2016.
Board impact of the principal risks documented requirements to 2019 recognising that the The Board has overall accountability for inthis report.
Based on this assessment, Group has significant flexibility to defer its determining the type and level of risk it is theDirectors have a reasonable expectation investment programmes, as required, with prepared to take, whilst also ensuring that that the Group will be able to continue in only $87 million of committed capital sound risk management and internal control operation and meet its liabilities as they expenditure at the balance sheet date.
systems are in place across the Group.
falldue over the period to December 2019.
In making their assessment, the Directors Reporting within the Group is arranged so In making this statement, the Directors have have additionally taken into account the that risks are escalated through various considered the resilience of the Group, taking Groups current cash position, along with the internal management and Board account of its current position, the principal need to service the Groups debt portfolio, committees and, when appropriately risks facing the business in severe but and the possibility that the current low material, to the Board.
These principal risks reasonable scenarios, and the effectiveness commodity price environment may prevail are regularly discussed at Board meetings ofany mitigating actions.
This assessment has for an extended period.
with a focus on the effectiveness of the considered the potential impacts of these risks The Group further anticipates that controls and the associated risk action plans.
on the business model, future performance, additional funding needs may be met, solvency and liquidity over the period.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance as appropriate, by access to the debt Code, the Board has conducted a full assessment The Directors have determined that the and capital markets, although there are of principal risks that could potentially threaten fouryear period to December 2019 is an no immediate plans to do so, along with the Groups business.
appropriate period over which to provide the divestment of assets.
This period is when of assets may include 50% of the Groups Viability Statement the Groups Fortuna FLNG development is interest in the Fortuna project which is The Directors have assessed the viability expected to be completed and the asset currently subject to a non-binding Heads ofthe Group over a four year period to isonstream delivering a long-term source of Terms, and of other tradable assets in December 2019, taking account of the offunds.
In addition to Fortuna, Ophir has its portfolio.
Groups current position and the potential assessed its capital expenditure The Board has assigned risk oversight to the Audit Committee, the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Technical Advisory Committee.
These Committees report their findings to the Board on a regular basis.
Board To review the Groups principal risks and uncertainties which may a ect Ophir achieving its objectives Corporate Responsibility Committee Audit Committee Technical Advisory Committee To review the operational, To review financial, regulatory and To review subsurface risks and controls people, information and ethical information risks and controls compliance risks and controls 16 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information The key elements of Ophirs risk management are: establishing the risk context withreference to Ophirs objectives conducting a risk assessment through: understandingthe causes, impacts, likelihood and potential impacts on Ophirs objectives: assessing if the risks canbereduced to a tolerable level: and determining appropriate controls to deal with the risk, allocating responsibility for managing the risk controls and executing the activities based on plans and procedures regularly communicating andconsulting on the risks through established management control procedures recurrent monitoring and reviewingofrisks Communicate & Consult Context Assessment Control Monitor & Review Risk management performance in 2015 External Operational Financial zero recordable environmental incidents operated safely with no Lost Time Incidents rebalanced the business to lower G&A and preserved and advanced the dialogue with o utput from production operations outperformed significantly reduce running costs stakeholders with a focus on creating budget by 5% added low breakeven production and recurring sharedvalue completed and commissioned the Kerendan cash flow to the business s upported successful sustainable initiatives with gasplant facilities with excellent safety record preserved financial flexibility through low local communities made major progress in the Fortuna FLNG project commitment spend through an innovative approach in contracting, reallocated capital to only be focused at those Strategic gas marketing and financing strategies assets which offer the highest risk weighted return moved to a more distinct focus on maximising shortly after completing our Myanmar made significant progress in funding value created from our assets PSC, successfully and safely conducted a arrangements for the Fortuna FLNG project high graded the exploration portfolio in Africa seismic campaign validating the Companys toreduce risk and maximise returns and Asia to those blocks that offer the highest operational agility risk-weighted returns, lower carrying costs drilled two operated exploration wells, three andwhere we have competitive advantage work-over projects and three 3D seismic surveys improved portfolio measurement safely, securely and under budget successfully integrated Salamander Energy maintained and improved an exceptionally strong technical capability within the Company Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17 Strategy Principal risks continued Our principal risks that have been identified within the Group are summarised as follows: Type Risk Description of Risk Control Responsibility Change External Legal The Group conducts business in The Group accords the highest importance to corporate governance General Counsel compliance jurisdictions with inherent risks relating matters and upholding the highest ethical standards.
regulatory or to fraud, bribery and corruption.
The Group employs suitably experienced and qualified staff and, litigation Litigation against the Group could when required, external advisors to ensure full compliance.
Legal risk assessment and due diligence is undertaken as appropriate.
Reputational damage withdrawal Robust Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption policies and standards.
of support by shareholders, governments, lenders and partners.
Investigation could lead to significant business disruption.
Loss of assets, PSCs and projects.
Maintain cash balance to sustain business through reduction in LNG capex.
Chief Financial Officer Constraints Significant competition for Aim to internally fund core exploration and appraisal and adverse development funds.
activities from the addition of production assets and market Market questioning the value equation monetisation of resources to generate cash flow.
sentiment for upstream, seeing high finding Diversify the sources of funding and apply prudent levels towards the costs and only rare examples of of debt to development and production activities.
E&P sector companies monetising their discoveries, Ensure that commercial terms on new acreage reflect promptly and for a profitable price.
the changing landscape and involve minimal financial Impact on project value and modelling.
commitments with options to exit early.
Refocus Ophirs upstream model and how to create value as follows: - assets will only continue to be held and progressed if they can demonstrably create substantial value for shareholders.
Capital is being selectively directed at those assets which offer the highest risk-weighted returns.
- we have reorganised to maximise the impact of our technical professionals and to minimise our support activities.
Political The Group operates in jurisdictions Ophir regularly monitors and seeks to understand changes Director Security that are subject to significant taking place in political and regulatory environments and Surface Risk political, economic, legal, regulatory and the potential for unforeseen events.
The Group works to the highest industry standards Dependence on permits and consents with regulators, closely monitoring compliance with granted by the authorities where we the Groups licence and PSC obligations.
operate can lead to delays and increased Spread our portfolio regional exposure.
costs in obtaining necessary permits.
Maintain positive relationships with governments and key stakeholders Uncertainties in the interpretation and in host countries.
application of laws and regulations in All material information is released to the market on a timely the jurisdictions in which we operate.
basis and in accordance with all applicable regulations.
Director Security Stakeholder Actual or perceived failure to address Ophir is committed to a shared value approach to ensure sentiment social and environmental issues or sustainable development with its stakeholders.
and Surface Risk corporate responsibility matters The Group conducts its operations in an ethical, may adversely affect the Group.
responsible, apolitical and transparent manner.
Ophir places a strong emphasis on maintaining excellent relationships with the local communities and host country governments.
There is ongoing monitoring of public sentiment towards the Group and its operations.
Global Numerous and complex changes Regularly review how external risks impact the Director Portfolio economic in macro environment around Groups strategy and remain agile to change.
and Strategy volatility global affairs and international Act counter-cyclically to take advantage of the opportunities economics, e. g. Chinas slowdown and developing from the industry downturn.
deceleration in the growth of global trade, are contributing to uncertainty and higher market volatility.
Low Continued supply and demand concerns.
Continue to review the Groups cost structure and make Chief sure it reflects the new oil price environment.
Financial Officer commodity Lower for Longer.
price Economics of development plans re-worked to reflect low oil price environment.
Selectively exploit the low service costs that have resulted from the drop in the oil price.
Strategic Divestment Difficult divestment environment.
Management restructuring designed to provide greater Director Portfolio Inability to successfully divest assets focus on IRR when making investment decisions.
and Strategy at an acceptable price and or time.
Monitor and tailor projects to fit macro environment.
Facilitate buyer access relationship with host Government.
Maximise transparency with equity buyers.
Contingency planning and preparedness to change the course of action as situations change.
18 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Type Risk Description of Risk Control Responsibility Change Investment The Group may not be able to Investments are not dictated by production or reserves growth targets: Director Africa decisions identify appropriate expansion instead each investment will be assessed on an IRR and materiality basis.
Global New opportunities or be able to manage Ventures Focus on growing a revenue generating business to fund such expansion effectively.
exploration activities and minimise the overall cost of capital.
Director Asia Allocate capital to highest return opportunities following rigorous risk reward analysis.
Risk assessment and due diligence process is undertaken on all potential new country entries.
Ophir endeavours to transact at the most appropriate time to create value for shareholders.
Operational Health Oil and gas exploration, development Ophir is committed to maintaining robust health, safety, security Director Security Safety and and production can involve and environmental management, and procedures are in place and Surface Risk Environment numerous risks and hazards, the in order to respond to unexpected events that have a direct HSE and most significant for Ophir are loss impact on the Group and the communities in which it works.
Security of hydrocarbon containment and Comprehensive HSE and operations management systems incident the transportation of staff.
including emergency response and oil spill response capability, as well as maintaining asset integrity.
Active security monitoring and management.
Learning from Group and third-party incidents.
Introduction of leading indicator system.
The contracting and procurement process ensures suitably qualified contractors are employed and trained in Ophirs requirements and industry best practices.
Commercial Discovery risk and success rate.
Ophir has rebuilt its exploration portfolio in Africa and Asia with Director high quality operated positions where Ophir has competitive Commercial advantage, where drilling commitments are minimised and where Director the fiscal regime allows material value creation at current prices.
Subsurface This approach enables Ophir to manage the exploration risk by high grading plays in prospective acreage: this focuses attention and ultimately drilling solely on the most prospective plays.
Ophir is carefully and counter-cyclically building a portfolio of lowcost opportunities with defined exit options for investors in order to decide whether or not to progress to the next phase of exploration.
Technical Advisory Committee and peer reviews.
Appropriate balance between growth by exploration and acquisition.
Measuring value of exploration investments.
Application of technical excellence and use of appropriate technologies in exploration methodologies.
Review new geographic opportunities without impacting focus on strategic core growth areas.
Managing risk with partners in existing assets and new ventures.
Financial Inability Liquidity and inability to Regular review of cash flow, working capital and funding Chief to fund deliver the business plan.
options, and prudent approach to budgeting and planning, Financial Officer exploration Gas discoveries may require the to ensure sufficient capital to meet commitments.
work Group to invest in LNG development Effective portfolio management via farm outs asset sales as appropriate.
programmes projects which require long lead Budget focused on high and medium ranked assets projects to deliver times and material investment in value creation and to ensure the Group can live within its means.
receipt, processing and transportation A formalised annual budget process and ongoing infrastructure and the marketing of LNG.
monthly reviews and analysis of actuals.
The Groups business will require Board approval of Annual Work Programme.
significant capital expenditure and the future expansion and development of its business could require future debt and equity financing.
The future availability of such funding is not certain.
Revenues, profitability and cash flows concentrated in a small number of producing assets.
The Group may face the possibility of future decommissioning costs that it cannot accurately predict.
