STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES PayPoints business, financial condition or operations could be materially and adversely affected by the risks summarised below.
Although management takes steps to mitigate risks where possible or where the cost of doing so is reasonable in relation to the probability and seriousness of the risk, it may not be possible to avoid the crystallisation of some or all of such risks.
The groups risk management policies and procedures are also discussed in the governance statement on page 22.
Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies Loss or inappropriate usage The groups business requires the appropriate The group has established rigorous information of data and secure use of consumer and other sensitive security, anti-fraud and whistleblowing standards, information.
Mobile telephone and internet-based procedures, and recruitment and training schemes, electronic commerce requires the secure transmission which are embedded throughout its business of confidential information over public networks, operations.
The group also screens new employees and several of our products are accessed through the carefully.
Continued investments are made in IT internet.
Fraudulent activity, cyber-crime or security security infrastructure, including the significant use breaches in connection with maintaining data and of data and communications encryption technology.
the delivery of our products and services could harm our reputation, business and operating results.
Dependence upon third parties The groups business model is dependent upon third The group selects and negotiates agreements with to provide data and certain parties to provide operational services, the loss of strategic suppliers and agents based on criteria operational services which could significantly impact the quality of our such as delivery assurance and reliability.
Similarly, if one of our outsource providers, points of failure are avoided, where practicable including third parties with whom we have strategic and economically feasible.
Controls are regularly relationships, were to experience financial or reviewed and improved to minimise risk of retailer operational difficulties, their services to us would churn caused by financial loss to retailers through suffer or they may no longer be able to provide fraudulent third party activity.
services to us at all, significantly impacting delivery of our products or services.
Exposure to legislation or The group is largely unregulated by financial services The groups legal department works closely with regulatory reforms and risk regulators, although in the UK we have Payment senior management to adopt strategies to educate of non-compliance Institution status for prefunded cash payments to legislature, regulators, consumer and privacy consumers and to allow the online payments business advocates and other stakeholders to support the to act as a master merchant for SME online merchants.
public policy debate, where appropriate, to ensure The groups agents which offer money transfer are regulation does not have unintended consequences licensed as Money Service Businesses by HMRC.
Our over the groups services.
The group has in place Mobile and Online business is subject to Payment Card a business ethics policy which requires compliance Industry Data Security Standards regulated by the card with local legislation in all the territories in which the schemes.
Regulatory reform could increase the cost group operates.
A central compliance department of the groups operations or deny access to certain co-ordinates all compliance monitoring and territories in the provision of certain services.
Subsidiary managing and finance directors compliance with law, regulation, privacy or information are required to sign annual compliance statements.
security laws could have serious implications in cost and reputational damage to the group.
Interruptions in business The groups ability to provide reliable services Comprehensive business continuity plans and processes or systems largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted incident management programmes are maintained operation of our computer network systems, to minimise business and operational disruptions, financial settlement systems, data and call centres, including fraudulent activity, system failure or as well as maintaining sufficient staffing levels.
Support arrangements have System or network interruptions, recovery from fraud been established with third party vendors and there or security incidents or the unavailability of key staff are strict standards, procedures and training schemes or management resulting from a pandemic outbreak for business continuity.
could delay and disrupt our ability to develop, deliver or maintain our products and services, causing harm to our business and reputation and resulting in loss of customers or revenue.
Dependence on recruitment The ability of the group to meet the demands of the Effective recruitment programmes are on-going and retention of highly market and compete effectively is, to a large extent, across all business areas, as well as personal and skilled personnel dependent on the skills, experience and performance career development initiatives.
The executive of its personnel.
Demand is high for individuals with management reviews talent potential at quarterly appropriate knowledge and experience in payments, meetings.
Compensation and benefits programmes IT and support services.
The inability to attract, are competitive and also reviewed regularly.
motivate or retain key talent could have a serious consequence on the groups ability to service client commitments and grow our business.
Exposure to materially The group contracts with a number of large service The group seeks to limit exposure in its contracts.
adverse litigation organisations for which it provides services essential Mitigating actions are taken where contractual to their customers.
Failure to perform in accordance exposures are above the norm, including with contractual terms could give rise to litigation.
insurance coverage, where appropriate and economically sustainable.
14 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies Technology change may There are rapid changes in technology in the payments IT development resource is directed at a group render products obsolete industry including the development of new payment level and developments are in hand to ensure the methods, particularly on smart phones and tablets, but group has relevant products in place to meet the also as a consequence of technology changes in other demands brought about by changing technology.
areas e. g. smart meters, which will replace the use of For smart meters, the first multi-channel product the energy keys and gas cards currently used to pay has been developed and launched.
Such changes may render current products and services obsolete.
Exposure to country and The groups geographic footprint subjects its businesses The groups portfolio is diversified by geography, regional risk political, financial, to economic, political and other risks associated with by product, by sector and by client in order to economic, social in North international sales and operations.
A variety of factors, protect itself against many of these fluctuations, America, United Kingdom, including changes in a specific countrys or regions especially those that are restricted to individual Romania, France and Ireland political, economic or regulatory requirements, as territories and market sectors, although the bulk well as the potential for geopolitical turmoil, including of its operations and revenues are UK based.
terrorism and war, could result in loss of services, prevent our ability to respond to agreed service levels or fulfil other obligations.
These risks are generally outside the control of the group.
Exposure to consolidation Consolidation of retailers and clients could result in No single client accounts for more than 9% of the among clients and markets reductions in the groups revenue and profits through groups net revenue, and no single retailer accounts price compression from combined service agreements for more than 4% of the groups net revenue, or through a reduced number of clients.
which reduces the probability of this potential risk having a significant impact on the groups business.
In addition, the group continues to expand in its developing businesses and in CashOut reversing the flow of money through its retail networks.
Acquisitions may not The groups acquisitions, strategic alliances and The group assesses all acquisitions rigorously, meet expectations joint ventures may result in financial outcomes using both in-house experts and professional that are different than expected.
The net sale proceeds advisers.
In addition, the group conducts regular from the proposed sale of the parking and online reviews to monitor performance.
payment processing business may not exceed their carrying value.
Yodel, our joint venture partner in Collect, is seeking increases in its charges to the joint venture.
It is not clear the extent to which, if any, these proposals will be adopted.
Exposure to the unpredictability As the group operates on an international basis, The groups financial risk management seeks to of financial markets foreign it is exposed to the risk of currency fluctuations minimise potentially adverse effects on the groups exchange, interest rate and and the unpredictability of financial markets in financial performance.
other financial risks which it operates.
Exposure to increasing The group operates in a number of geographic, The group is committed to continued research competition product and service markets that are highly and investment in new data sources, people, competitive and subject to technological developments technology and products to support its for example the introduction of smart meters and strategic plan.
Competitors may develop products and services that are superior to ours or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services, which could result in the loss of clients, merchants and retailers or a reduction in revenue.
Loss or infringement of The groups success depends, in part, upon proprietary The group, where appropriate and feasible, intellectual property rights technology and related intellectual property rights.
relies upon a combination of patent, copyright, Some protection can be achieved, but in many cases, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as little protection can be secured.
Third parties may various contractual restrictions, to protect our claim that the group is infringing their intellectual proprietary technology and continues to monitor property rights or our intellectual property rights this situation.
The group also vigorously defends could be infringed by third parties.
If we do not all third party infringement claims.
enforce or defend the groups intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position may suffer, which could harm our operating results.
Data centre security breaches The group is highly dependent on information The groups data centres are protected against technology networks and systems to process, physical break-ins.
The group has strict standards transmit and store electronic information.
and procedures for security and fraud prevention.
Fraudulent or unauthorised access, including security breaches of our data centres, could create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorised disclosure of confidential information.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 15 STRATEGIC REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS, EMPLOYEES, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS PayPoint is committed to dealing fairly and with a high level of integrity with all its stakeholders, including clients, retailers, merchants, consumers, local communities and shareholders.
We comply with statutory obligations in all areas and subject our practices to high levels of scrutiny.
We publish results twice each year and provide two interim management statements, complying with reporting and disclosure obligations.
This report sets out our approach and the way we measure our success in dealing with each group of stakeholders.
Clients and Retailers and Local communities Shareholders merchants consumers Information 5,500 clients and online Over 37,000 retailers Where our employees 559 shareholders at merchants in six countries.
in three countries and live and work.
31 March 2015. on provide a service to stakeholders millions of consumers.
Impact Provision of convenient To provide stable, reliable Financial support to Maximise shareholder services for consumer and a broad range of local charities.
services to help generate consumer footfall for retailers who serve their communities.
Engagement Provision of a high We seek to provide an Staff are encouraged to PayPoint focuses standard of service to unparalleled service to our nominate local charities on maximising our clients and open retailers and consumers.
Client contracts contain service PayPoint has adopted a level agreements, which charitable giving policy are set to a high standard.
which supports the local Specific performance communities in which its is measured for key employees live and work elements, including system by matching funds raised availability and file delivery.
by employees, subject to certain limits.
How we Communication - major In the UK, terminal During the period, Shareholders are invited to clients have regular review availability is over 99% PayPoint donated attend the annual general interact and meetings with dedicated and when a terminal 32,556 to local and meeting and major support the sector managers.
needs to be replaced, it is national charities, which shareholders are visited stakeholders achieved within four hours was supplemented by twice a year to discuss across the UK in 98% employees who also the groups results.
The breadth donated to some of of products offered by these charities through PayPoint has been PayPoint is greater than various schemes.
a constituent of the any other network.
FTSE4Good index We offer our network to since 2008.
An annual retailer collect for certain charities survey is carried out to free of charge, including understand how we can the BBCs Children in improve our service.
also invite retailers to attend an annual forum to 45% of PayPoints ATM discuss new products and network is speechobtain retailer feedback.
enabled, the largest proportion of an Major multiple retailers independent network have regular review in the UK.
meetings with dedicated account managers.
16 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS, EMPLOYEES, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS continued Environment PayPoints main impact on the environment stems from our use Factors for Company Reporting have been used to calculate of resources to run offices in the UK, Ireland, Romania, North our emissions based on data gathered from each of our America and France and our communications with our retailers.
We measure our carbon footprint in accordance using the Green Global GHG emissions data for the year is as follows: House Gas GHG protocol.
This allows us to monitor, by region, Year Year our carbon footprint and implement, where practical, targets to ended ended reduce our carbon footprint.
31 March 31 March The two primary sources of PayPoints carbon emissions are Impact Units 2015 2014 business travel and energy consumption.
We visit existing Scope 1 direct emissions tonnes and prospective retailers in the UK, Ireland and Romania.
from fuel combustion CO e 382 357 2 Routes are pre-planned to ensure efficiency where possible.
Scope 2 indirect emissions Management regularly visits our businesses to review and from purchased electricity, tonnes improve performance.
We aim to avoid unnecessary travel.
heat and cooling CO e 1,371 1,256 2 Energy consumption arises from our offices in the UK, Scope 3 business travel, tonnes Romania and North America.
We have a cycle to work waste and water CO e 929 932 scheme for our UK employees.
We encourage employees 2 not to print unless necessary and our board papers are sent Total 2,682 2,545 electronically rather than printed and sent by post.
Intensity measurement: PayPoints services help consumers to reduce the number of Total tonnes of CO e 2 1 unnecessary car journeys through the convenience of our per employee 3.7 3.7 outlets which are usually available within a short walking 1.
We have used the average number of employees to calculate our intensity distance.
Collect consolidated over 18 million parcels into measure as the majority of our emissions are directly related to business travel 1.6 million store visits in the year, saving millions of van and energy consumption at our head office locations.
deliveries to each consumers home address.
Human rights We recycle wherever possible, including paper, cans, plastic PayPoint supports fundamental human rights, such as the cups, cardboard, toners and print cartridges.
We also recycle right to privacy, safety and to be treated fairly, with dignity and computer equipment.
This has resulted in an increase in the respect.
Our employment standard sets out our commitment proportion of waste recycled to 55% of all waste generated to good employment practices and the principles to govern 2014: 54%.
Total waste has increased in the year due to the practices adopted in each of our businesses.
All employees the rise in employee numbers and corporate office locations have a right to safe conditions of work, consideration of their as the business has grown.
welfare, fair terms of employment, reward and treatment, clarity and openness about what is expected.
PayPoint offers an environment where all are treated equally and which is free Year Year from discrimination in respect of gender, ethnicity, religion, ended ended sexual orientation, age or disability.
31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Employees Tonnes Tonnes Change % PayPoint employed, on average, 731 members of staff Waste during the period.
We operate an equal opportunities policy.
PayPoints culture is one of openness, honesty and Landfill 17.9 15.4 16.3 accountability and we recognise that all employees play Recycled 21.8 18.4 18.9 a part in delivering the groups performance.
Total 39.7 33.8 17.7 PayPoint seeks to improve its employees working % recycled 55.0% 54.4% 0.6 ppts environment.
Employees are invited to participate in two staff meetings a year where the directors present the performance GHG emissions of the group.
Overseas offices participate by webcam.
In In this section we report on all required greenhouse gas GHG addition, there are a variety of management presentations emissions in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic to employees on key points of topical interest and functional Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013. meetings take place throughout the year at our various offices.
PayPoint believes that keeping its employees informed We report using a financial control approach to define our of new developments and products, as well as the financial organisational boundary.
A range of approaches can be taken performance of the group, motivates the employees and to determine the boundaries of an organisation for the purposes helps them understand the groups progress towards its of GHG reporting including financial control, operational control goals and objectives.
PayPoints employment policies are designed to attract, The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based upon retain and motivate the best people.
All staff are given two the Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including mandatory appraisals per annum, which cover performance management, greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance June 2013 issued employee development, training and succession planning by DEFRA which make it clear that, in most cases, whether an where applicable.
Training is undertaken locally and all operation is controlled by the organisation or not does not vary employees are given equal opportunities to develop their based on whether the financial control or operational control experience and their careers.
The 2013 UK Government GHG Conversion PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 17 STRATEGIC REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS, EMPLOYEES, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS continued Employees in the UK, Ireland, North America PayPoints employees and Romania are asked annually to complete an 3 UK Rest of the world anonymous employee engagement survey which covers a wide range of subjects, including goal Year Year Year Year clarity, employee involvement, job satisfaction, ended ended ended ended learning, development and management 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March effectiveness.
This survey is used to agree with 2015 2014 2015 2014 employees the actions necessary for improvement.
1 General PayPoint has the following policies in place: Average number of staff employed during the period 531 512 200 175 equal opportunities - we treat job applicants, employees and temporary staff equally, Average length of service 5 years 5 years 2 years 2 years regardless of their sex, sexual orientation, age, race, ethnic origin or disability.
It is also the Average staff turnover groups policy to retain employees who may during the period 22% 21% 16% 9% become disabled while in service and provide Sickness absence rate 1.8% 1.6% 2.2% 1.5% appropriate training as necessary.
% working part-time 9% 10% 4% 4% whistle-blowing - we are committed to 1 ensuring that malpractice is prevented and Gender diversity immediately dealt with, should it arise.
We Number of women employed 231 193 79 69 encourage employees to raise their concerns about any malpractice promptly and we % of all employees 43% 41% 39% 39% have an established procedure for raising any such concerns.
Number of men employed 300 319 121 106 % of all employees 57% 59% 61% 61% health and safety - we recognise that effective health and safety management is PayPoint plc directors: fundamental to running a successful business.
We are committed to operating high standards, Number of women employed - - - - designed to minimise the risk of injuries and % of PayPoint plc directors 0% 0% - - ill health to employees, contractors, visitors and others who come into contact with the Number of men employed 10 9 - - business, so far as is reasonably practicable.
% of PayPoint plc directors 100% 100% - - disciplinary and grievance procedures - 2 we provide a fair and consistent method of Senior management : dealing with disciplinary problems and treat Number of women employed 2 2 - - misconduct with appropriate action.
We ensure that we treat any grievance an employee may % of senior management 22% 22% 0% 0% have relating to their employment in a fair and reasonable manner.
Number of men employed 7 7 1 1 % of senior management 78% 78% 100% 100% bullying and harassment - we promote a working environment free of harassment 1 and individuals who believe that they are Ethnic minorities being subjected to any form of harassment % of all employees 21% 25% 9% 9% are encouraged to come forward to have the issue resolved.
% of management grades 3% 3% 7% 10% 1 Disabled employees business ethics - we set out clear standards for ethical relationships and conduct to be % of all employees 1% 1% 0% 0% maintained by employees and sub-contractors 1 Age profile and conduct our business in accordance with the highest ethical standards.
We do not offer Employees under 25 51 54 26 13 or accept any bribes.
Employees 25 to 29 96 88 32 38 training and development - all employees Employees 30 to 49 299 282 138 117 meet twice a year with their line manager to Employees 50 and over 85 88 8 7 discuss performance and any development needs.
Training is provided either in-house or 1.
Numbers based on employees employed at the end of each month 2.
Senior management includes the group executive, managing directors, externally.
We also sponsor employees through the Group HR director and Group Head of Legal Company Secretary further professional and technical qualifications.
Rest of the world includes Ireland, Romania, North America and France We promote internally, where appropriate.
Approved by the board of directors and signed on behalf of the board.
Dominic Taylor Chief Executive 28 May 2015 18 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
