Strategic report | Group Principal risks and uncertainties How we manage risk We operate a well established and fully embedded Group wide risk management process, from which we seek to identify significant risks at the earliest possible stage and determine whether they are acceptable risks which we can manage and mitigate satisfactorily.
More detail on our risk management process is set out in our corporate governance report.
The risks and uncertainties set out in this section have been identified from our risk management process as potentially having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.
They are managed as described but are not wholly within our control and may still result in having a material adverse impact on the Group and its business activities, as may factors besides those listed.
Key Risk Level Low Medium High The colouring green, amber, red is our estimate of the inherent risk level to the Group after mitigation.
It is important to note that risks are difficult to estimate with accuracy and therefore may be more or less significant than indicated.
Increasing Unchanged Decreasing Assessed direction of travel of risk level.
South West Water Law and regulation Risk Mitigation 2013 14 2014 15 Direction Changes in law, South West Waters PR14 2015-2020 business plan regulation or decisions was assessed by Ofwat as enhanced with confirmation by governmental in the Final Determination in December 2014. bodies or regulators.
South West Water continues to contribute fully to consultations with all regulators and seeks to influence emerging changes through strong relationships with its stakeholders.
34 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Economic conditions Risk Mitigation 2013 14 2014 15 Direction Non-recovery of In addition to existing strategies, which are kept under review, customer debt.
South West Water continues to implement new initiatives to improve and secure cash collection.
A new strategy for debt collection is being implemented which includes: improved processes for managing customer moves targeting previous occupier debt: specific case management and utilising court claims effectively: and increasing the use of charging orders to secure debt.
South West Water is one of the few companies to have implemented a social tariff WaterCare.
The company has also continued to fund and promote ways to help customers struggling to pay bills WaterCare, Restart, Fresh Start Fund, which seek to reduce bad debt exposure.
In future, further changes to the benefits and universal credit system, any significant changes to personal taxation policy implemented by UK Government as well as macro-economic trends, such as levels of household income relative to the cost of living, may further affect the ability of customers to pay their bills.
Operating performance Risk Mitigation 2013 14 2014 15 Direction Extreme weather South West Water is well placed to cope with extreme and climate change incidents.
A key mitigation is having detailed contingency can place pressure plans, sufficient emergency resources and a capital on the companys programme that supports ongoing efforts to manage water resources these risks.
In the longer term, the impacts of climate change are being considered.
The company has plans ready and will adapt the way it conducts its business to respond effectively to the anticipated hotter, drier summers and wetter winters.
Poor service provided The company has delivered further improvements to customer to customers.
service demonstrated across a number of measures including SouthWest Water improved satisfaction value for money, reduced written could incur a financial complaints and fewer water quality complaints.
penalty under the South West Water has improved its relative industry measure regulatory regime.
SIM, resulting in its best ever score in 2014 15.
While South West Waters performance continues to improve, the performance in the K5 period has incurred a modest financial penalty already incorporated in the 2014 Final Determination.
Targeted improvements are being made to further improve customer service and the companys relative industry standing during the K6 period 2015-2020. www.
co. uk 2015 35 Strategic report | Group Principal risks and uncertainties Continued Operating performance continued Risk Mitigation 2013 14 2014 15 Direction Non-compliance There are rigorous health and safety policies and procedures in or occurrence of place across South West Water.
avoidable health and Over the past 18 months a significant review of operational safety incidents.
sites has been undertaken to provide up to date risk assessments at all wastewater and drinking water treatment sites.
A programme of capital improvements has been delivered reducing site risks further.
The company has also replaced its lone worker procedures and equipment to utilise recent advancements of technology and functionality.
The alarm handling arrangements have also been changed as part of the lone worker system review with this service now being managed by an accredited external provider.
Further details on South West Waters approach to minimising the number of health and safety incidents is set out on page 51.
Significant South West Water has established procedures and operational failure or controls in place, as well as contingency plans and incident incident occurrences.
This could include South West Water has a number of schemes in place to contamination of water maintain water resources such as pumped storage for supplies, pollution certain reservoirs and promotes conservation measures and events, water resource customer water efficiency measures.
restrictions and South West Water also considers the longer-term resource flooding events.
It prepares a new Water Resources Management Plan every five years and reviews it annually for a range of climate change and demand scenarios.
In recent years South West Water has worked in partnership with other representatives to identify a wide range of factors that can cause and exacerbate flooding events.
The company has identified targeted capital investments to reduce the risk to specific customers in key affected areas and, working alongside lead local flood authorities, other partner agencies, developers and environmental groups, is identifying best practice management of extreme rainfall and flooding.
Market Risk Mitigation 2013 14 2014 15 Direction Uncertainty arising As part of the risk management and business strategic from market reform.
planning processes, the company continues to evaluate developments and proposals for competition.
Strong progress has been made in developing our approach to the retail market opening in 2017 and South West Waters internal project market ready programme is aligned and actively engages in the development of central market operations.
South West Water is prepared for the development of retail competition for non-household customers during the next regulatory period and has developed enhanced services which it offers to commercial customers through Source for Business.
In addition, South West Water is participating in discussions for the design of Upstream reform.
Upstream reform will involve a mixture of market and regulatory reforms to deliver services to customers, the environment and society effectively and efficiently.
36 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Viridor Law and regulation Risk Mitigation 2013 14 2014 15 Direction Changes in law, Viridor operates within regulatory EU and UK established regulation or decisions frameworks.
It engages at all levels and contributes fully to any by governmental consultations on possible changes to the regulatory policy, bodies or regulation.
Removal or Existing investments that qualify for Renewable modification Obligation Certificates are protected under the of renewable grandfathering procedure.
Economic conditions Risk Mitigation 2013 14 2014 15 Direction Pressure on margins in Viridors Input, Throughput and Output Optimisation ITOO the recycling business programme, which is being applied across its recycling as a result of local activities, is ensuring the production of high quality authority austerity, poor materials.
Management of the cost base is mitigating the input quality and falling impact on margins of a softening in recyclate prices.
In the long term, clear regulatory drivers for recycling from the EU and the UK Government, alongside expectations from leading companies, are laying the foundations for a strong, continued demand for recycling services over the next 15 years.
Reduction in waste A central aspect of Viridors diversified strategy is the growth volumes to landfill of stable volumes in the energy recovery business to offset the due to the longdeclining trend in landfill and current challenges in recycling.
term trends towards In addition, Viridor is exploring alternative uses for its landfill waste minimisation assets.
There is also evidence of recent rising UK waste and recycling, and volumes as the economic recovery continues.
in the overall market from energy recovery from waste.
Operating performance Risk Mitigation 2013 14 2014 15 Direction Business interruption, Equipment failure is being managed by more sophisticated particularly in the planned preventative maintenance regimes with improved growing Energy stocks and stores controls.
The risk from local disruption is Recovery Facility ERF alleviated by good public liaison and communications.
business, through Police are consulted regarding campaign groups and the risk equipment failure, fire, of cybercrime is being addressed as part of Project Enterprise power outages and see business systems risk.
Downward pressure Viridor enters into forward sale contracts for a certain on UK wholesale proportion of electricity generated from landfill gas power prices.
To a certain extent downward pressure on power prices is naturally offset by usage across Viridor and the wider Group.
Non-compliance Viridor has rigorous compliance systems, health and safety or occurrence of policies and procedures in place.
Professionally qualified and avoidable health and highly experienced health and safety advisers are in place for safety incidents.
every region, reporting to the Head of Compliance.
Continual training, awareness campaigns, toolbox talks and briefings focus on key topics.
Formal health and safety qualifications are required for line managers, senior managers and directors.
Risk assessments are undertaken at every appropriate level.
Safe operating procedures are subject to audit and review.
co. uk 2015 37 Strategic report | Group Principal risks and uncertainties Continued Capital investment Risk Mitigation 2013 14 2014 15 Direction Failure or increased Increased skilled management resource including the costs of capital establishment of oversight boards for each of the major projects and or joint projects has added additional rigour to their delivery.
ventures not achieving Wherever possible back-to-back agreements with, and predicted revenues guarantees from, suppliers are entered into which provide or performance.
Viridors experienced and dedicated project contract teams carry out detailed due diligence on all projects, suppliers, technologies and acquisitions prior to commencement.
There is also regular monthly reporting on performance on major contracts and post project appraisals are carried out, which all assist in being able to improve future performance.
Exposure to contractor Extensive due diligence and significant protection of back-tofailure to deliver back contracts and or penalty clauses in contracts to deliver construction progress, new technologies on time and within budget.
increasing costs and Viridor, through its Capital Projects and Engineering Director, potentially requiring proactively manages its contractors.
It has enhanced its lengthy legal action or team, both from internal and external resources, to reflect the other redress.
increased scale of its capital programme.
Competitive pressures Risk Mitigation 2013 14 2014 15 Direction Reduced customer Viridor provides recycling and waste management services base, increased which are locally delivered services from locally managed competition affecting facilities and a significant proportion of its revenue is prices or reduced contracted over the medium or long term.
In general terms demand for services.
Viridors strategy is to establish a sustainable competitive advantage in the business in which it operates: this is designed to protect long-term shareholder returns.
With regard to major competitive projects being pursued there are barriers to entry due to planning permissions being difficult to obtain and significant investment requirements.
Viridor believes there is competitive shake-out taking place among marginal competitors which will, in due course, benefit Viridor.
Potential overcapacity Viridor has fully evaluated projected demand and competing in the UK ERF market capacity for each of its planned facilities and is confident that could impact demand they can be filled profitably.
As landfill tax reached 82.60 per for Viridors new plants.
tonne in April 2015, Viridors large-scale ERFs will remain one of the low-cost ways of disposing of residual waste.
Overcapacity in parts The costs of producing SRF and RDF to the required quality of Europe could impact and of shipping it to Europe are broadly at the cost of landfill the UK ERF market.
Disposal and generation of the associated renewable UK waste could be energy in ERFs in the UK is generally lower cost and better for converted into solid the UK economy.
Despite the availability of export, Viridor is recovered fuel SRF successfully winning new contracts for its ERFs.
Nevertheless, or refuse derived fuel amounts of SRF and RDF may continue to be exported, RDF and exported especially if UK ERF capacity remains insufficient.
under Environment Agency licence for disposal in Europe.
Business systems Risk Mitigation 2013 14 2014 15 Direction Some of Viridors Project Enterprise, charged with developing a fully scalable IT systems require Enterprise Resource Planning ERP type platform, is now well replacement, advanced and involves external consultancy as required, with development or a focus on best practice and minimising implementation risk.
upgrading to meet the growing requirements of the business.
38 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Group Law and regulation, finance and funding Risk Mitigation 2013 14 2014 15 Direction The Group may The Company has robust treasury policies in place.
be unable to raise The Group had 1.7 billion of cash and facilities as at 31 sufficient funds to March 2015 including 830 million of new and refinanced finance its activities or facilities sourced during the year.
Policies include always such funds may be only having pre-funded at least one years estimated cash flow available at higher cost.
through cash and or committed facilities and ensuring no more than 20% of net borrowings mature in any one year.
In addition, in respect of South West Water the economic regulator has a statutory duty to ensure that the company is able to finance its functions in the normal course of business.
The Group has to date obtained funding at lower effective average interest rates compared with many other companies in its sector and is well placed to meet the funding requirements of both South West Water and Viridor in the foreseeable future.
Unfavourable outcome Robust case being made to CMA setting out anticipated net The acquisition of Bournemouth Water from Competition and benefits for customers from the merger.
Markets Authority CMA review of our acquisition of Bournemouth Water.
Pensions Risk Mitigation 2013 14 2014 15 Direction Pension costs may All defined benefit schemes apart from the Greater increase due to higher Manchester Waste PFI scheme have been closed to new costs for future service entrants since April 2008. and growing deficits During 2014 15 the Group reviewed the long-term in relation to past sustainability of its main defined benefit pension scheme service in the defined and agreed changes in benefits that reduce the cost of benefit schemes.
Employee and employer contributions are kept under review, and a formal actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2013 was concluded during the period.
Pension trustees keep investment policies under review and use professional investment advisers to seek to maximise investment returns at an appropriate level of risk.
subsidiaries, wherever they occur in this strategic report, are Forward-looking statements necessarily based on assumptions reflecting the views of This strategic report, consisting of pages 4 to 51, contains Pennon Group and its subsidiary companies, as appropriate.
forward-looking statements regarding the financial position: results of operations: cash flows: dividends: financing plans: They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could business strategies: operating efficiencies: capital and other cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested expenditures: competitive positions: growth opportunities: by the forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking plans and objectives of management: and other matters.
statements should, therefore, be considered in the light of These forward-looking statements including, without relevant factors, including those set out in this section on limitation, those relating to the future business prospects, principal risks and uncertainties.
revenues, working capital, liquidity, capital needs, interest costs and income in relation to Pennon Group and its www.
