38 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Risk management The board has carried out a robust assessment of the risk management across Pearson, taking a pragmatic principal risks facing the company, including those approach that assists in eliminating ine ciencies and that would threaten its business model, future identifying and closing gaps.
Our Enterprise Risk performance, solvency or liquidity.
Our principal risks Management ERM framework has been developed and uncertainties are outlined below, along with a to be aligned with international standards COSO and description of how they are being managed.
ISO31000 and it aids our compliance with the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance See pages 82 to 89 in Governance for details on the Code guidance.
Risk identi cation and assessment board and audit committees risk oversight during were also included in the 2015 strategic planning 2015, their ongoing monitoring of risks, including and acquisition processes, to further embed risk deep dives into selected principal risks and the annual management in decision making.
Identifying and assessing risk The goal of our risk management approach is to support Pearson in meeting its strategic and The board is ultimately responsible for the oversight of operational objectives of growth and simpli cation risk management, assisted by the assurance the audit as set out in the chief executives overview on pages committee provides with regard to the procedures for 4 to 7, so that the key business risks are identi ed, the identi cation, assessment and reporting of risk.
Our aim is to manage risks, Throughout the year twice as a minimum, the understanding that many risks are external in nature identi cation of principal risks is informed using a and cannot therefore be fully controlled.
bottom up and top down approach through discussions How we manage risk with each business area, identifying new risks as well as re-assessing those already being monitored.
We assessed our risk management maturity in 2014 To aid in the identi cation of risks and development of and made improvements in 2015 towards our 2017 associated mitigating actions, risks are categorised into target.
The diagram how we manage risk shows our four main areas: strategy and change, operational, approach to embedding a Pearson-wide risk culture.
financial, and legal and compliance.
This framework is being used to drive improvements in How we manage risk Risk management Risk management Risk management Foundations Process Culture Risk context Governance and oversight Communication Framework, policy Training, education and procedures Risk and awareness Risk assessment Roles and monitoring Reporting Embedding in Identi cation and responsibilities analysis and and review decision-making evaluation Appetite and Continuous tolerance improvement Working with third-parties Risk treatment Learn more in the Governance section on pages 82 to 89 Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 39 The probability of a risk materialising and the potential Risk appetite impact of each risk across multiple parameters is rated Risk appetite is the target level of risk the board nds based on existing controls, then the adequacy of action appropriate to accept in order to achieve Pearsons plans to address any remaining control gaps is also strategy and goals.
Further work was done in 2015 to assessed.
Those risks which have a higher probability fide ne the risk appetite for each of our principal risks, and signi cant impact on strategy, reputation or working with the Pearson executive.
Recommendations operations, or a financial impact greater than 50m are made annually to the board, as part of the boards are identi ed as principal risks.
oversight of risk management see page 88 in Pearson executives have oversight of risks relevant to Governance for more on the boards governance their areas of responsibility, which were included in of risk management.
Management is responsible for The semi-annual risk assessment reviews take into executing appropriate actions to mitigate risks where account the current level of risk compared to appetite.
It is not possible to A consideration of target risk appetite is now included identify every risk that could a ect our businesses, and in key business decisions, such as acquisitions and the actions taken to mitigate the risks described below strategic planning.
cannot provide absolute assurance that a risk will not materialise and or adversely a ect our business or There are certain risk areas where we have a very low financial performance.
appetite, such as complying with all applicable laws, including those on anti-bribery and corruption or the The outputs of the risk assessments described above safety and security of learners.
This means that we take and below are reported to the audit committee and actions to try to avoid or eliminate this risk as far as board in detail.
In addition to the company-wide risks, possible.
In other areas, such as strategy and change, this includes risk maps for our main Pearson business we recognise the importance of managed risk-taking areas and geographies.
in order to achieve business objectives and goals.
Our principal risks as of 31 December 2015 Outlined here are our most signi cant risks that may a ect 1 Business transformation and change our future.
We assess the probability of the risk materialising and the impact of the risk.
The risks with greatest potential Digital and services evolution and 2 severity are identi ed as principal risks.
market forces 3 Talent 4 Political and regulatory risk 16 5 Acquisitions, divestments and JVs 13 9 6 Testing failure 3 12 6 1 4 10 7 Safety and security 15 2 7 14 8 Customer facing systems 5 8 9 Safeguarding and protection 11 10 Business continuity new risk 17 11 Tax 12 Treasury new risk 13 Data privacy and information security 14 Intellectual property 15 Competition law new risk PROBABILITY 16 Anti-bribery and corruption 17 Data quality and integrity new risk IMPACT Financial, Reputational, Strategic, Operational LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL STRATEGY AND CHANGE RISKS RISKS RISKS RISKS 40 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Risk management continued Key changes to Pearson risks in 2015 Key assumptions The key themes arising from company-wide risk The key assumptions which underpin our three-year discussions in 2015 re ect those of our strategic goals strategic plan to December 2018 are as follows: simpli cation and growth, underpinned by business transformation and change to enable these.
The key cyclical and policy factors that have recently hurt Pearson US college enrolments and UK quali cations highlighted in the chief executives strategic overview should stabilise by the end of 2017 and improve modestly on page 4, 2015 was a year of change for Pearson.
thereafter, helped by new product launches The theme of change is re ected in the relatively high 2.
Pearson makes modest market share gains in probability of our principal risks, as shown in the map.
North America higher education subjects where The level of change increases risk short term, however in next generation courseware is being launched the medium to longer term it will enhance our controls 3.
US state testing revenues continue to decline through for many of our risks, as well as enabling Pearson to 2017, as current contracts unwind, before stabilising achieve its goal of becoming more e cient, simplifying in 2018 the way we work for our customers and learners.
Professional certi cation and clinical assessment More robust risk assessments in 2015 have improved revenues continue to grow our understanding of the nature and scale of risks, such 5.
Pearson businesses in China and Brazil bene t from as data privacy and information security highlighted the launch of new products, including the Wall Street in the audit committee chairs statement on page 83 English New Student Experience where external threats continue to increase and we 6.
Pearsons services businesses for example, online have programmes of work to close identi ed gaps.
programme management, virtual schools, blended learning in English continue to grow as new Good progress has been made in implementing platforms and products come to market and capitalise mitigation plans, especially for those risks with lower on market growth target risk appetite, such as for ABC and in our direct 7.
The bene ts of the companys restructuring plan delivery businesses, where risks such as the safety and are delivered in full, with minimal disruption to security of both our learners and sta have new roles sales, market share and operations from this major and fide ned plans underway both highlighted in the programme of change audit committee chairs statement on page 83. plausible downside scenario onto base case strategic Risk assessment of prospects and viability plan for the group, focusing on the impact of the This section should be read together with the full following assumptions and key risks: viability statement on page 118.
Further revenue shortfalls in US assessments.
Pearsons principal risks and our ability to manage them Further revenue shortfalls in higher education as outlined in this section are linked to our viability as a courseware assuming enrolments remain at.
These risks have therefore been taken into account when preparing the viability statement.
Additional revenue shortfalls in growth markets principally South Africa, Brazil and China driven The board assessed the prospects of the company over a by weaker local economic conditions.
three-year period, longer than the minimum 12 months of the annual going concern review.
The three-year Business transformation and change execution risk period corresponds with Pearsons strategic planning associated with timely delivery of the restructuring process and represents the time over which the programme in 2016 causing the bene ts to be delayed company can reasonably predict market dynamics and or not fully realised.
the likely impact of additions to the product portfolio.
The board also stress tested the impact on our The board discusses the companys strategic plan on liquidity of all the principal risks listed above occurring an annual basis taking account of a range of factors together.
Although this is not regarded as a plausible including market conditions, the principal risks to the scenario the test showed that the company would still company, product and capital investment levels as well have liquid resources subject to a limited number of as available funding.
Pearsons strategy and business management actions.
model are discussed in more detail on pages 2 to 9.
The boards con rmation of Pearsons viability for the In assessing the companys viability for the three years three years to 2018 is included alongside the going to December 2018, the board overlaid a severe but concern statement on page 118.
