Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 41 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic and change risks Risk 2015 activities 2016 plans Business transformation 2015 was a year of change for Pearson.
A number of major At the end of 2015 we undertook 1 and change: transformational change programmes commenced in 2015, including a rigorous, bottom up review the Enabling Programme a programme of work to deliver a single of our markets, operations The pace and scope of our Pearson-wide solution to integrate our data, systems and processes and financial plans.
The chief business transformation across HR, Finance, Procurement and Supply Chain, OneCRM and executives strategic overview initiatives increase the Technology Delivery Centre TDC and these continue into 2016. on pages 4 to 7 describes our execution risk that The Enabling Programme runs until 2018 and will deliver sustainable plans for transforming Pearson.
bene ts may not be fully improvements in finance, human resources and operations.
In 2016, we will further simplify realised, costs of these our business, reduce our costs changes may increase, or In addition to usual good practices in place for project and change and position ourselves for growth that our business as usual management, there is enhanced governance, monitoring and in our major markets.
activities do not perform reporting in place for these most signi cant change initiatives.
in line with our plans, or The success of the restructuring our level of customer plan is a key assumption service may not meet underpinning achieving our expectations.
goals by 2018, showing how critical it is that this risk is e ectively managed.
Digital and services Our global education strategy will drive a faster move to digital and Turning this risk into an 2 evolution and market services, recognising that this is a signi cant opportunity for Pearson, opportunity successfully forces: as well as a potential risk.
We are transforming our products and investing in and delivering the services for the digital environment along with managing our print right products and services is Failure to invest inventories.
The 2015 strategic planning process took a more key to our strategy for returning successfully in and in-depth review and challenge of areas for future investment and to growth by 2018. deliver the right re-investment.
In the chief executives strategic As indicated in the section above on risk assessment of our prospects overview on pages 4 to 7, we have and viability, we take into account cyclical market factors in our laid out a strategy for returning to strategic planning process.
We are combining our lines of business for courseware The Global Product Lifecycle continued to be embedded across Pearson into a single product organisation, and won an award for Best Innovation Programme at the Corporate as well as rationalising and Entrepreneur Awards.
integrating our product You can read more about the Product Lifecycle and its governance development capabilities to focus on page 61 in the Social impact section.
on more adaptive, personalised next generation courseware and we are increasing our assessment focus on more adaptive and personalised online services.
