PERFORMANCE REVIEW Principal risks Identifying what may affect our performance The principal risks which may affect our business and the future performance of the Group are set out below.
Risk Impact Mitigation Change in 2015 The housebuilding industry is sensitive to changes We carry out extensive due diligence prior to our National in unemployment, interest rates and consumer land investment decisions to capture best returns.
Any deterioration in economic conditions We monitor our geographical spread to mitigate economic may signicantly decrease demand and pricing for the effects of local microeconomic uctuations.
We conditions new homes, which could have a material effect on monitor lead indicators on the future direction of the our business revenues, profits and cash ows and UK housing market so as to manage our exposure result in the impairment of asset values.
to any future market disruption.
We control the level of build on-site by closely managing our work in progress levels and matching supply to demand.
Any restrictions in the availability of mortgages for We monitor Bank of England commentary on credit Mortgage ourcustomers could reduce demand for our homes conditions and the Council of Mortgage Lenders availability and affect revenues, profits and cash ows.
monthly reports and lenders announcements for trends in lending.
We ensure that our investment in land and construction is appropriate for our level of sales and our expectations for market conditions.
The health and safety of our employees, We ensure that the Boards health and safety Health and subcontractors, home owners and visitors to our strategy is implemented by our comprehensive safety construction sites is of paramount importance to management systems and controls, overseen by our us.
Accidents on our sites could lead to reputational Group Health and Safety Department to mitigate the damage and financial penalties.
risk of accidents on our sites.
Our business is subject to extensive and complex We operate comprehensive management systems to Regulatory laws and regulations relating to planning and ensure regulatory compliance.
We hold a landbank compliance the environment.
Our obligations to comply with sufficient to provide security of supply for short to legislation can result in delays causing us to incur medium term requirements and engage extensively substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land with planning stakeholders.
Noncompliance could also result in damage to the Groups reputation and financial penalties.
Rapid expansion in UK housebuilding has driven an We closely monitor our build programmes enabling Resources increase in demand for both materials and skilled us to manage and react to any supply chain issues.
labour and may cause costs to increase ahead of We operate in-house training programmes for our expectations.
apprentices and mature trainees to support our needfor increased skilled labour.
The Board has adopted its strategy as it believes The Groups strategy is agreed by the Board Strategy itisthe one most likely to add the greatest at an annual strategy meeting and thereafter sustainable value for shareholders and stakeholders.
regularly reviewed at Board meetings and by It is possible that, with time, circumstances may theExecutive Directors.
The Board engages with arise that indicate that the strategy currently being management and employees to ensure the strategy pursued is not the most effective or efficient and is communicated and understood and that all thatalternative strategies may be more appropriate.
employees have a clear understanding of what isrequired of them to implement the strategy.
Key Increased risk No change Decreased risk Persimmon Plc 24 Annual Report December 2015
