Pets at Home Group Plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk management An effective risk management process has been adopted to help the Group achieve its strategic objectives and enjoy long-term success 1 Key risks by area and any changes since the last review 5 2 This process is then Risk ratings reviewed monitored and by evaluating Our risk management process reported to the Board each risk and The Board and the Executive Management and Audit Committee assigning a score Team are collectively responsible twice a year for managing risk across the Group.
On a department by department basis risks are reviewed regularly and risk registers are updated at least three times a year.
The teams meet to discuss and agree: 4 3 Progress in executing Identifying the agreed process required actions improvement and against each risk implementing agreed risk mitigation Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 45 Overview | Strategy | Performance Risk management responsibilities are allocated as follows: Health and Safety Committee Assists the Board in managing the risk of health, safety and security Holds meetings quarterly with stakeholders from across the Group.
Reviews the Groups risk register, health and safety policy and compliance with applicable regulations.
Recommends to the Board and Group appropriate policies and procedures.
Updates the Board on accidents across the Group.
Internal Audit Audit Committee Executive Management Team Oversees the risk Collectively responsible for Co-ordinates the risk management process managing risk management processes Receives and reviews detailed Key risks are allocated to an Executive Holds meetings with all Risk Owners risk reports prepared on a Management Team member for oversight across the business three times a year.
departments by department basis and ultimate ownership.
Updates the individual risk registers, twice a year.
The full Executive Management including actions and progress made, Team supported by key members Chairman completes a detailed assesses risk ratings and determines of the Operating Board are responsible review of the risk reports.
if these should change up or down for closely managing the most and documents the controls in place signi cant risks.
that help mitigate each risk.
Receives regular risk updates and reports.
Operating Board Has line responsibility for managing risks within their areas Reviews risk registers periodically three times a year.
Takes action, as agreed and documented in the risk registers.
Identi es new risks for inclusion in the registers.
