Pets at Home Group Plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risks and uncertainties Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Outlook Strategic priorities Change The Group recognises the need to protect its As a retailer of small pets across a large number of stores, the highest possible welfare As we continue to increase our size and scale we must work to ensure pet welfare Brand and brand and reputation.
Failure to do so could standards must be maintained at all times.
This also extends into the supply chain with standards continue to be maintained at a high level across the Group.
We will continue Grow like-for-like reputation result in a loss of trust and confidence by both our pet suppliers.
We operate a comprehensive pet welfare audit process, utilising internal to monitor welfare standards closely and take appropriate steps where required to customers and colleagues.
and external resources, where all stores receive unannounced visits on a regular basis.
This helps ensure our high standards are maintained across the chain.
With our suppliers, Grow space and optimise footprint we expect the same high standards of welfare and all suppliers are visited regularly by vets, third party assessors, our field pet team and an animal welfare organisation and assessed against a comprehensive set of welfare and standards criteria.
Grow margins The Group also deals with customers pets on a daily basis through its veterinary practices, Groom Room salons and Support Adoption centres, which may on occasion result in the death or injury of pets whilst in our care.
We have a clear set of operational protocols, with the veterinary practices subject to the professional standards mandated by the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons.
We also have highly visible field operations resource in respect of in-store pets, grooming and veterinary surgeries.
Each area has specific resource focused on ensuring the highest pet welfare standards are maintained.
We operate a confidential Pet Promise Line where colleagues are able to raise concerns about pet care directly with our Head of Pets.
Pet welfare across the Group is overseen by the Pets Before Profit Board committee.
This meets regularly to review pet welfare and check that appropriate processes are in place to ensure we maintain our high welfare standards.
The Group competes with a wide variety We continue to evolve our proposition through the addition of Vets and Groomers into our Recent competition for physical retail store space has been limited and we do Competition of retailers and vet practices, including other existing store estate whilst continuing to innovate with the regular introduction of new and not expect this to change in the near term.
There is some increase in the number Grow like-for-like pet specialists, supermarkets and discounters.
exclusive products into our food and accessory ranges.
As a specialist retailer, the delivery of pure-play online competitors but this is not expected to have a significant impact of friendly expertise through our highly engaged trained store colleagues is a key element on our business.
Competitor pricing strategies could become more competitive.
Online competition is also a risk, as large of our proposition and we continue to invest to ensure our service standards, as measured Grow space and optimise footprint well known internet businesses expand into by our customers through Fish4opinion, are continually improved.
The Pets at Home website pet products and the established pet product sites was successfully upgraded in January 2014 to ensure that our technology platform is capable improve and expand their offer.
of supporting our online strategy.
Further upgrades have taken place since then and the Grow margins site has recently been optimised for mobile usage.
Failure to keep abreast of, and respond to, developments by our competition in the areas The VIP Very Important Pet club was launched in November 2012 and has been very of price, range, quality and service could have successful attracting 3.2m members at Financial year end.
This customer and pet an adverse impact on the Groups financial database enables more targeted marketing, which helps drive up basket values and enables performance and impact opportunities for growth.
us to build a stronger sense of engagement with our customers and their pets.
We track and respond to competitor pricing movements where appropriate.
Continuous market research is carried out to review the pet market both at home and abroad and understand what our competitors are doing worldwide.
This helps identify further changes initiatives that need to be implemented to help keep Pets at Home ahead of the competition here in the UK and remain a leader in the market.
A key part of the Groups growth strategy To successfully open a new store, we have to, in the first instance, identify an appropriate An increased proportion of our new stores will be located on newly developed Stores and is to increase the number of stores and location with a store size appropriate to the local market and with lease terms that are retail parks and park extensions.
Whilst this can create greater timing uncertainties, Grow like-for-like services to grow its in-store and standalone veterinary acceptable.
We have the ability, with smaller footprint stores, to utilise mezzanine space we do not expect any challenges in relation to the volume of new space available.
expansion practices and Groom Room grooming salons.
to deploy Vet and Groom Room offerings, maximising the opportunity to open the majority of stores with a full service proposition.
Any proposed new store investment has to Grow space and optimise footprint If we are unable to deliver the number of sites deliver an appropriate financial return after taking into account any financial impact on necessary to fulfil the stores and services the existing store portfolio.
These processes are equally applicable when the Group looks expansion laid out in our strategy and maintain to open a standalone veterinary practice.
However, in common with our in-store veterinary Grow margins our existing numbers of sites, our expected practice opening programme, we also need to recruit a joint venture veterinary partner financial performance could be adversely with the ability to fund their investment into the joint venture and with the ability to provide impacted.
the personal guarantee to the bank providing the third party financing to the joint venture veterinary practice.
The business maintains new store and new joint venture partner pipelines which identify potential locations and potential partners at each stage of our process.
This enables the Board to monitor progress in delivering the expected number of new stores, veterinary practices and groom rooms.
Certain geographical areas for example, within the M25 represent a particular risk as suitable space for new stores, Groom Rooms and vet practices is limited and existing sites may be redeveloped.
Where existing sites are at risk of redevelopment or where leases may not be renewed, specific measures are taken to maximise the opportunity for the Group including considering purchasing the freehold if appropriate.
As a specialist retailer, retaining highly trained We continue to invest in training to broaden the skill base of colleagues across the business.
We need to ensure that the Group continues to be an attractive place to work Our people and engaged colleagues is fundamental to We also closely monitor colleague retention rates and engagement, the latter through particularly if employment levels continue to increase nationally and there is more Grow like-for-like our continued success and the delivery of our our annual Were All Ears engagement survey which is followed up by Were All Action competition in the job market.
to ensure the business responds appropriately to opportunities for improvement raised by colleagues.
We also have a rolling programme of listening groups across the business to ensure Grow space and optimise footprint If we do not retain and train our colleagues, we are addressing issues on an ongoing basis and we are participating in the Great Place it is unlikely that we will be able to deliver the to Work programme.
outstanding customer service which is a key element of our proposition.
Our remuneration policy, as set out on pages 86 to 103, is designed to ensure executives of the necessary calibre are attracted and retained and that through our Long-Term Incentive Our growth plans and future success are at risk Plans and Company Share Option Plan, colleagues across the business can share in our if we do not recruit and retain high calibre, success.
Similarly we continually review the remuneration and benefits packages available talented senior management.
to all colleagues to ensure our colleagues are appropriately rewarded for the substantial contribution they make to our growth and success.
Succession plans are in place for key roles and these are regularly reviewed by the board and senior management.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 47 Overview | Strategy | Performance Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Outlook Strategic priorities Change The Group recognises the need to protect its As a retailer of small pets across a large number of stores, the highest possible welfare As we continue to increase our size and scale we must work to ensure pet welfare Brand and brand and reputation.
Pets at Home Group Plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risks and uncertainties continued Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Outlook Strategic priorities Change We are aware of the need to keep core business We are in the process of upgrading our business critical systems to industry leading Our systems stability and reliability will continue to improve as upgrades Business systems up to date, with the capability to support packages.
SAP was implemented in the prior financial year and the HANA and BPC modules and enhancements take place and new systems are adopted.
Grow like-for-like Systems and the Groups growth plans.
Our warehouse management system has been replaced with Information security risks are likely to continue to increase.
We monitor Information JDA during this year and core enterprise applications such as IBM Websphere have been If our investments in both systems and this risk and will strengthen our controls as required.
We continue to monitor the level of activity within the Business Systems function Security infrastructure do not keep pace with the growth and will respond appropriately should IT project or service delivery be at risk.
of the business there may be a consequent limitation to our ability to trade and expand.
Also, Disaster recovery is a key part of our systems strategy, enabling us to continue to trade the scale of system and infrastructure change in the event of a system outage.
Disaster Recovery plans have been reviewed and updated is currently significant and this may impact on and a schedule for regular testing is now in place.
The business also undertakes regular our ability to deliver IT services to the business.
We hold a significant amount of customer data Our customer loyalty scheme data is held by a specialist third party who has industry and recognise the need to keep this secure.
Any standard information security accreditations and is regularly audited.
Encryption is used to information security breach could adversely affect protect the transmission of customer data.
Internal audits of IT security and data protection our reputation and the take up of our customer have recently taken place within Pets at Home, to ensure we have both a focus and loyalty scheme.
improvement plan in respect of processes and control in this area.
During the financial year, approximately 17% Having Pets at Home colleagues on the ground working collaboratively with suppliers enables Further audit diligence in regard to the supply chain will take place over the next Supply Chain of the Groups Merchandise cost of goods were us to monitor closely compliance with the Groups Code of Ethics and Business Conduct policy, financial year.
Our strong supplier relationships will help to ensure that risks in this area Grow like-for-like Sourcing globally sourced, and as a consequence we are as well as compliance with our Supplier Quality Manual.
In addition, unannounced visits are are well managed.
exposed to the risks associated with international undertaken by an independent third party to further monitor compliance with Group policies.
trade, such as inflation, changing regulatory A review of our sourcing activities in the Far East was carried out by our Internal Audit department Grow margins frameworks and currency exposure.
We are also during the year and no significant issues were noted.
exposed to the risks associated with the quality Exposure to foreign currency movements is mitigated through our hedging strategy.
and safety of products produced globally on behalf More detail on this can be found on page 138. of the Group, many of which are own branded or exclusive private labels.
Business continuity plans are in place for the distribution centres and plans are in place to mitigate the impact of any disaster by servicing all stores from a single distribution centre.
A failure to adequately manage this risk could lead to reputational damage, reflected in a lack of confidence by customers and colleagues in the Group brands.
We have two national distribution centres covering the north and south of the UK respectively.
A disaster at one of the DCs may result in a significant interruption to the supply of stock for a large number of stores and in the fulfilment of internet orders.
The business requires adequate cash resources The Groups finances are continually monitored in the context of its growth plans.
We will continue to monitor our finances and build relationships with our finance Liquidity and to enable it to fund its growth plans through As a result the Group is confident that it has adequate medium-term financing in place, providers.
We do not anticipate significant macroeconomic changes in the short Grow space and optimise footprint Credit Risk its capital projects and or an expansion of the with a broad syndicate of ten banks.
to medium term that may impact on this risk area.
The Groups growth plans in respect of joint venture veterinary practices is predicated Without adequate cash resources the on the availability of finance for new joint venture veterinary partners to fund both the capital Group may be unable to deliver its growth cost and working capital requirement for each new practice opening.
The Group has two plans, with a consequent impact on future revolving and two non-revolving facilities in place with major high street lenders which give financial performance.
us confidence that our medium-term growth plans are financed adequately.
The Group ensures that all cash surpluses are invested with banks which have credit ratings and investment criteria that meet the requirements set out in the Group Treasury policy, which has been approved by the Board.
The Groups key suppliers are exposed to credit risk and as part of the Groups overall risk management programme, the business has identified alternative suppliers and developed contingency plans, particularly in respect of own label and private label food products.
The Group has an exposure to exchange This exposure to FX fluctuation is managed via forward foreign currency contracts which Ongoing currency movements between the US dollar and GBP may result in further Treasury and rate risk in respect of the US dollar which are designated as cash flow hedges.
We will continue to monitor this and adjust our approach Grow margins Financial Risk is the principal purchase currency for goods to hedging where necessary.
The Group has borrowings with floating interest rates linked to LIBOR, thereby exposing the sourced from the Far East.
The Group also Group to fluctuations in LIBOR and the consequent impact on interest cost.
To manage this faces risks from changes to interest rates risk the Group has interest rate swaps in place which fix the interest rate on a significant and compliance with taxation legislation.
proportion of the Group borrowings.
Further details can be found on page 134.
If we do not adequately manage this exposure All hedging activity is undertaken by the Group Treasury function in accordance with the there could be an impact on the Groups financial Group Treasury policy which sets out the criteria for counterparties with whom the Group performance with a consequential impact on can transact and clearly states that all hedging activities are undertaken in the context operational and growth plans.
of known and forecast cashflows, with speculative transactions specifically prohibited.
Dedicated tax resource is in place and specialist tax advisors are retained to assist in this area.
Many of the Groups activities are regulated We actively monitor compliance with our existing obligations and we have internal policies We continue to monitor potential future developments such as the new European New risk Regulatory by legislation and standards including, but not and standards to ensure compliance where appropriate.
We also provide training for colleagues Data Protection Regulation and plan accordingly.
Grow like-for-like and limited to, trading, advertising, product quality, where required and operate a confidential hotline for colleagues to raise concerns in Compliance health and safety, pet shop licensing, carbon confidence.
emission reporting, bribery act and data Our suppliers commit to adhering to relevant regulations and standards as outlined in our protection.
Failure to comply with these may Quality Manual.
We carry out a rolling programme of supplier audits to check for compliance result in financial or reputational damage.
Prolonged extreme or unseasonal weather We actively monitor and forecast demand and, should this risk occur, we would review Planned improvements in our omni-channel offering, including the ability to use New risk Extreme conditions may reduce footfall in our stores, planned and tactical promotional activity to determine whether strengthening this would mobile devices, will improve our resilience to reduced store footfall during periods Grow like-for-like Weather resulting in weak sales, leading to adverse drive sales.
impacts on profit and inventory.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 49 Overview | Strategy | Performance Key risk Description and impact Mitigation Outlook Strategic priorities Change We are aware of the need to keep core business We are in the process of upgrading our business critical systems to industry leading Our systems stability and reliability will continue to improve as upgrades Business systems up to date, with the capability to support packages.
