Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks are a risk or a combination of risks that, delivering our strategic objectives.
In terms of managing these given the Groups current position, could seriously affect the risks, our systems of risk management and internal control are performance, future prospects or reputation of the Group.
founded upon deployment of our Enterprise Risk Management Framework based upon ISO 31000:2009 : and our Internal Control They include those risks that could materially threaten our business Framework.
Details of which are included in the Audit Committee model, performance, solvency or liquidity, or prevent us from report on pages 84 to 89.
Market conditions Description and impact Mitigation and management Volatility in oil and gas prices Group backlog stood at US$20.7 billion at 31 December 2015: largely insulating the Company from the could influence the level of immediate effects of the fall in hydrocarbon prices.
investment within the industry However, low prices and uncertainty in the forward oil price are having an impact on the level of investment, and the demand for our services.
exploration, development and production activity among International Oil Companies IOCs The financial performance of and National Oil Companies NOCs who are increasing their capital discipline.
IES is directly impacted by oil This, in turn, could influence the level of demand for our services in this sector and the longer-term prospects and gas price volatility due to for our E&C and EPS businesses.
In mitigation of this risk, we are maintaining strong client relationships with Equity Upstream Investments.
NOCs: carefully diversifying operations by client and by geography: increasing our activity in the oil and gas Significant movements in exchange sub-sectors of maintenance, modifications and operations MMO : and extending our offshore portfolio.
rates could also impact our Under our Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy we aim to hedge, on a rolling annual basis, financial performance.
the net profit exposure to hydrocarbon prices from IESs Equity Upstream Investments as appropriate.
However, we do not begin hedging until a development has achieved steady-state production.
The majority of Group revenues are denominated in US dollars or currencies pegged to the US dollar.
In instances where we are procuring equipment or incurring costs in other currencies, we use forward currency contracts to hedge any related exposures.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: We have continued our own business model evolution with a focus on our cost The risk has pages 89: 1217 and 162 base and the indentification of innovative solutions to client problems.
increased in 2015 Worsening political risks in key geographies Description and impact Mitigation and management The risk of exposure to civil or We face a range of political risks in a variety of territories, including the possibility of unforeseen regime political unrest, civil war, regime change as well as legal or regulatory changes.
The Board regularly monitors the changing political change or sanctions that could landscape, particularly in those countries regarded as unpredictable and core to our business.
All current and new projects or operations in all high risk territories are assessed and executed in compliance with our Security Policy and Security Standards.
Security risk assessments are carried out in all high risk territories before entering into new contracts.
Careful consideration is also given to project, investment and income exposures, and to the associated contract terms and conditions.
The risk of over-concentration in We take all reasonable measures to reduce and limit our commercial exposure in each territory.
This includes regular security risk assessments, careful selection of contracting parties, out-of-country arbitration, advance payments, and disciplined approach to cash management.
When considering the entry into new territories, or extending our activities in existing territories, our plans are reviewed by the GRC.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the Groups overall concentration risk.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: All significant oil producing countries are facing varying degrees of challenge from The risk has pages 89: 16 and 55 factors related to oil price, sectarian conflict and the wider global economic situation.
increased in 2015 Failure to meet future order targets Description and impact Mitigation and management The risk of a significant change The capital discipline of our clients continues to increase and we therefore expect the demand for our to the marketplace dynamics services in this sector to be challenging.
and the ways in which this could Bid-to-win ratios and segmental competition are regularly analysed to monitor this risk: improved threaten our market position competitiveness through streamlined bidding and estimating processes is reflected in the high bidding or our geographic footprint.
success rate to support targeted business acquisition.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: Competitors are planning to expand their presence in the Middle East, The risk has pages 1417 despite the increased political risks.
increased in 2015 30 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Related pages Our strategic review p20 Operational and project performance Description and impact Mitigation and management The portfolio typically includes Notwithstanding some recent exceptions, we have a long history of successful project execution from bid a relatively small number of submission through to project completion, which has demonstrated our rigorous approach to risk identification very large contracts.
is the impact on our financial We have continued to reinforce our delivery framework across our E&C and EPS businesses to include: performance if any of these operational excellence: margin capture: cost reduction: design optimisation: change to execution and contracts were to be disrupted subcontracting models: and reinforced our system of governance to maintain delivery focus and ensure or if we fail to execute in line with tighter commercial and contractual decision making.
Within IES we have continued to strengthen the our expectations.
engineering design Technical Authority: subsurface and operational Technical Authorities: enhanced our governance and assurance processes: and provided greater interdependence between technical, asset management and sub-surface teams.
We always seek to enter into legally strong contracts with clear deliverables and avoid liabilities that are unquantifiable or for which we could not reasonably be held responsible.
We also monitor the level of insurance provision and the extent to which we could bear the financial consequences of a major disruption.
The risk of experiencing a Our culture of health, safety and environmental awareness is central to our operational and business activities.
serious environmental, asset This culture is continually re-emphasised and is supported by our operating framework and its associated integrity or safety incident and management processes and systems including our Group-wide Asset Integrity Framework.
the commercial and reputational Health, safety and environmental awareness continues to be a key driver for the Group and the Board receive damage that could be caused.
regular briefings throughout the year.
We also have a wide variety of controls embedded within the business including: health, safety, security, environment and integrity assurance HSSEIA processes, safety case management processes, major accident hazard risk assessments and audits, and regular monitoring of integrity management and maintenance schedules.
We continue to reinforce Group level crisis response capabilities and procedures to respond in the event of a significant direct threat to any aspect of our workforce or assets.
If we are unable to transfer We maintain a Group-wide insurance programme to mitigate against significant losses.
The programme is certain risks to the insurance consistent with general industry practice, and it also incorporates a captive insurance vehicle for the management market due to the availability of low level additional losses.
or cost of cover, for example, Insurance premium costs are subject to changes based on various facts including a particular companys we could be exposed to material loss experience: the overall loss experience of the insurance markets accessed: and capacity constraints.
To mitigate these risks, we have worked with our insurance brokers, Aon, to optimise the insurance policies that we purchase in terms of their limits: deductibles: and specific policy terms and conditions.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: We have restructured the organisation and introduced separate assurance teams.
No change pages 67: 2022: and 5255 We have revised our Delegated Authorities to strengthen our controls around commercial and contractual decisions.
Application of the commercial strategy Description and impact Mitigation and management The risk that poor strategic The Board assesses the level of project management discipline and executive capability necessary or investment decisions to support the business, to satisfy itself that the right mix of risk, capability and reward is established.
could negatively impact We have been clear and transparent in our communications around the execution challenges we have our business model.
faced and have made a number of improvements as a result of lessons learnt.
As the Groups strategy We remain focused on consistent delivery: strategically, operationally and financially.
for growth moves into new We aim to minimise our cash flow exposure on contracts, especially where we deploy capital alongside geographies and Petrofac our services as in certain IES contracts.
We will only do so where we are comfortable with the level competes for larger, more of counterparty risk and with the contractual terms and conditions.
integrated projects, the Board is required to sanction more complex bids and investments, such as the JSD6000 vessel.
This includes investments in the business itself and co-investment in our customers assets as is often the case with IES contracts.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: We have strengthened our review of major projects at the early stage of the No change pages 1213: 17 and 23 bidding process.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 31 Principal risks and uncertainties continued IT resilience Description and impact Mitigation and management There is a risk that IT security During the year we have migrated our critical applications to new data centres: we have expanded our or integrity failings could result intrusion detection monitoring and an information security and cyber awareness campaign has been in the loss of commercially initiated.
Across Petrofac we are alert to the related risks, and conscious of the need to be able to sensitive data and create respond effectively to any far-reaching systems failure.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: We continue to develop our capability and have recently further tightened No change pages 74 and 86 our controls.
Counterparty risk Description and impact Mitigation and management The risk of over-exposure to any The Board regularly monitors the total value of contracts by customer to ensure that we are not overly one customer and the impact dependent on any one relationship.
this could have if the relationship We have a formal programme of regular, senior level dialogue with our major customers to understand were to be jeopardised.
and pre-empt any concerns they may have.
The risk of financial or We regularly monitor our exposure and ensure that our financial assets are spread across a number commercial exposure if of creditworthy financial institutions and that limits are not breached.
We also maintain close working counterparties such as relationships with clients and exercise close cash flow monitoring.
key financial institutions, Our Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy requires that material financial counterparty risk is only held customers, partners, with counterparties that are rated by Standard and Poors as A or better or the equivalent Moodys rating.
subcontractors or vendors Financial Counterparty Risk is managed by Group Treasury and the Audit Committee has established default on their commitments.
specific limits for financial counterparties.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: We have increased our focus within the business units on cash collection.
We No change pages 87: 163 and 182 continually review and seek robust contractual protections as we enter contracts with new clients.
Loss of financial capacity Description and impact Mitigation and management The risk arising if we Given the need to finance our ongoing operations and invest in future growth, we are exposed to certain were not able to meet our liquidity risks.
We manage these risks by ensuring that we always maintain an adequate level of liquidity financial commitments.
in the form of readily available cash, short-term investments or committed credit facilities.
The Audit Committee has defined a minimum level of liquidity that must be maintained.
Additionally, the Board has set a target for the maximum level of leverage.
Cash flow forecasting is carried out across all service lines on a regular basis to identify any funding requirements well in advance.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: We have improved our net debt position following settlement of a number No change pages 13: 48: 87: 164: of commercial positions.
171 and 181183 A global cash management initiative is underway which will minimise the number of bank accounts and reduce surplus cash through consolidated cash pooling.
32 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Related pages Our strategic review p20 Corporate responsibility p50 Dilution of Company culture and or capability Description and impact Mitigation and management A lack of availability of sufficiently Given our long-term growth expectations, it is necessary for Petrofac to attract and retain significant skilled, experienced and capable numbers of appropriately qualified employees.
We have therefore developed a systematic, Group-wide personnel particularly at senior approach to talent management.
levels could impact on our ability We regularly review our resourcing needs, and aim to identify and nurture the best people through talent to deliver our business plans.
and performance management programmes, linked to effective succession planning and recruitment.
Individual performance scorecards are implemented for employees, with end of year reviews being actively promoted across each business group.
We remain confident that our policies to attract, retain, train, promote and reward our people are appropriate for the Group and will enable us to meet our strategic goals.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: In 2015 we reviewed our e-learning resources and we embedded our Leadership No change pages 1011: 13: 17: and Management Competency Framework.
and 5658 The current volatility in the sector has increased the pool of talented oil and gas professionals, providing a better market for recruitment.
Effectiveness of the internal control framework Description and impact Mitigation and management The risk that employees or Our Code of Conduct sets out the behaviours we expect of our employees and the third parties we work with suppliers may fail to live up including suppliers, contractors, agents and partners.
to our high ethical standards We are disciplined in monitoring and managing the social impacts of our operations, as set out in our Social and the consequent impact Performance Standard.
This includes supporting and investing in local communities affected by our operations.
We seek assurances that the third parties we employ comply with our Code of Conduct and the principles set out in our Ethical, Social and Regulatory Risk Policy, and our Social Performance Standard.
The potential financial and Our business is conducted in a growing range of territories, and is therefore subject to a broad range of reputational risk that would arise regulations including sanctions compliance.
The Group has an anti-corruption compliance programme that if any of our employees or third seeks to manage related risks across all of our business activities.
parties were to breach local or This programme recognises the requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010, and focuses on training, monitoring, international laws.
risk management and due diligence.
Our management takes a risk-based approach to due diligence activities.
In recent years, we have increased the level of due diligence for new contracts in higher-risk countries: and, where appropriate, this includes the commissioning of independent investigations.
The potential of material We have strengthened and further empowered our functional groups through the recent reorganisation.
financial losses if there are An annual self assessment questionnaire is completed by each business unit where management review and weaknesses in our financial confirm the adequacy of financial and other controls and compliance with Company policies.
The Audit Committee has oversight of the Groups financial controls, approves the annual internal audit plan and reviews the results of internal and external audits together with ad hoc control or compliance reviews.
There are specific delegations of authority for all financial transactions.
Links Change Assessment For more information see: We have further increased the level of functional review in our Delegated Authorities.
No change pages 2629: 6667: 69: Three separate reviews were commissioned: an external independent investigation 7481: and 8689 of the relevant internal controls by KPMG: a review of operational risk management: and an analysis of the risk oversight processes that were in place at the time the projects were initially approved and were applied throughout project execution.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 33
