Risk management Petrofac operates in a Risk framework challenging environment Sets risk appetite.
and we recognise that, Approves Key Risk Register.
with careful management, Board risks can offer opportunities as well as challenges.
The successful delivery of Petrofacs strategy depends on the Groups Board oversight of framework identification, assessment, monitoring Provides of internal controls and risk Audit assurance on management.
and management of its principal risks.
framework Committee During 2015 we made a number of Key Risk Register improvements to our risk management review by Audit processes in order to ensure our risk Committee and control framework is firmly embedded throughout the Group.
We have ensured Oversight of Key Risk Register.
Senior management consider that lessons learnt from our reviews of risk on significant projects the issues experienced on the LagganGroup Risk and investments for formal Tormore project, in particular, have been consideration by the Board.
Committee reflected in these improvements to strengthen our procedures and controls.
We believe our risk management framework Divisional management oversight provides us with the structure to identify the and review of projects.
risks and uncertainties which may impact Divisional Risk our business, thereby underpinning our Review Committees ability to achieve future objectives and opportunities as our business evolves.
Risk management is embedded within each business unit.
Business Units Assurance to management and the Board.
Group Internal Functions Audit 26 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Related pages Corporate Governance p68 Audit Committee Report p84 Risk governance Each of our individual businesses has its We have strengthened and further Petrofacs overall system of risk governance own business management system that empowered our functional groups incorporates risk management policies relies on a number of committees and through the recent reorganisation with and procedures and produces its own management processes which bring greater interaction of specialist areas in risk register.
Each business service lines together reports on the management the risk review process.
We have further management team meets regularly and of risk at various levels.
The risk governance increased the level of functional review monitors these risks as a matter of course, process relies upon regular risk assessments in our Delegated Authorities.
notes risk assessment changes and seeks and reviews of existing and new opportunities, We have enhanced our review of major to take appropriate mitigating action.
The by considering the risk exposure and projects with many of these having been risk registers for each business are reviewed appetite of each business unit, service brought to the GRC a number of times formally each month by that businesss line and function.
The diagram on page 26 whilst we are still in the early stages of leadership team and are then shared with sets out the risk governance structure in the bidding process.
The increased the Groups senior leadership team.
operation, showing the interaction between number of reviews has enabled us to the various risk review and management analyse fully the key risks and identify committees.
Terms of reference are in Risk agenda appropriate mitigation before any place for each of the key committees.
Our annual budget and business plan contractual commitment and provides review process incorporates a review of assurance to the GRC that the contract The Group Risk Committee GRC is a risks which have previously been identified.
at pre-signature stage remains within management committee constituted as The effectiveness of existing controls and our agreed risk appetite.
the principal executive forum for the review mitigating action plans are also considered.
We have introduced additional controls of enterprise, project and investment When compiled, risk reviews are assessed to provide assurance to the GRC that risks, in accordance with the Delegated by the senior leadership team, the GRC actions identified during previous risk Authorities approved by the Board.
and considered by the Audit Committee reviews have been fully closed out.
where relevant and appropriate, and We, like all companies, continue to The GRC reviews all material new business ultimately form the basis of a detailed be exposed to external cyber-security opportunities and projects including bid Board review.
Further detail with regards threats.
During 2015 we have expanded submissions, country entry, joint ventures, to the outcome of the Boards internal our intrusion detection monitoring and investments, acquisitions and disposals and control and risk management review for have made significant changes to tighten is responsible for making recommendations the year is provided on page 79. controls.
We have also initiated an as to the management and mitigation information security cyber awareness of risk exposure: and also recommends 2015 review campaign to ensure our people are proposals for approval by the Board or We continually seek to improve our process informed of the risks.
for managing risk and during 2015 we made the following enhancements to our Over the course of 2015 we have made The GRC is responsible for the assurance processes and controls to improve the a number of improvements in how we of the Enterprise Risk Management transparency of our approach: run our business and have learnt from risk framework agreed by the Board including management weaknesses identified over the approval of Group standards and the We strive for operational excellence recent years.
application of the Groups Delegated and have recognised that improvements Authorities.
In addition, the GRC reviews were necessary to strengthen our project the Key Risk Register KRR prior to its controls and management of large projects.
submission to the Audit Committee.
We have enhanced these with the introduction of a formal assurance team Each division has a Risk Review Committee across the Engineering & Construction DRRC chaired by the responsible Managing and Engineering & Production Services Director Chief Operating Officer which businesses that will provide independent provides peer review of proposed projects peer reviews of project progress, execution and investments in accordance with the plans and costs.
Where required by the Delegated Authorities, the DRRC then prepares appropriate materials for the GRC and ensures that no proposal is presented without first being reviewed and supported by the DRRC.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 27 Risk management continued Risk management framework Risk Management System Key Risk Register KRR The Groups risk management framework Petrofacs Enterprise Risk Management The KRR identifies those risks that, encompasses the policies, culture, organisation, System PERMS was deployed during given the Groups current position, could behaviours, processes, systems and other 2014 and was embedded across the materially threaten its business model, aspects of the Group that, taken together, Group in 2015.
Its purpose is to systematise future performance, prospects, solvency, facilitate its effective and efficient operation.
our risk management process which itself liquidity, reputation, or prevent us from The framework is designed to underpin the is based upon the principles and guidelines delivering our strategic objectives.
The Board Groups longer-term sustainability.
of BS ISO 31000:2009, with the aim of treats such risks as principal risks.
The KRR providing an integrated approach to risk is the means by which the Groups principal The framework supports the Board in and control and to standardise the means risks are reported to the Audit Committee exercising its overall responsibilities and to: of assessing, reviewing and reporting and the Board for their review.
It includes on risk and to enhance visibility and business, financial, hazard and operational Regulate the entry of appropriate accountability.
The system aggregates risks, together with external factors over opportunities and risks into the Group and records risks by type and exposure which the Group may have little or no Develop our understanding of the most under the same framework.
significant threats and opportunities Promote active management of risk On certain projects our clients have access The KRR is updated on a quarterly basis exposures down to acceptable levels to the PERMS system and are monitoring and looks forward over a three year time Assist the Group in delivering business plan project risks jointly with the appropriate horizon to identify the: objectives and operational performance project team.
During 2015 we identified a number of enhancements that will further Nature and extent of the risks facing During 2015, the framework has continued improve our use of the system and these the Group to mature and a more robust process was are currently being developed.
Likelihood of the risks materialising and defined.
The principal aspects are explained their potential impact on the achievement in the following sections.
of business plan objectives Means of mitigation to reduce or control the incidence or impact on the business of risks that do crystallise Aggregate enterprise risk profile and associated key risk indicators Groups risk management framework Infrastructure Risk management process Risk integration Company vision Strategic planning and strategy Communicate and consult Medium term planning Company values Prospect phase Group policies Go No-go process and standards Proposal phase Risk appetite an d delegated authorities Design Asset integrity framework Procurement Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk reporting Code of Conduct identification assessment treatment monitoring Execution Risk management process Operation Risk Review Committees Hand over Global insurance programme Management support processes Emergency preparedness Assurance Company values and culture Enterprise Risk Management system and other tools Leadership, communications and engagement 28 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Related pages Our strategic review p20 Group financial statements p108 and therefore the extent to which different Some of the parameters used to exercise Risk culture categories of risk are regarded as acceptable control over risk appetite include: As with all aspects of good governance, for the Group to bear.
the effectiveness of risk management Health and Safety monthly reviews and internal control also depends on The KRR is designed to provide the Board of KPIs for Lost Time Injuries and the individuals responsible for operating and Audit Committee with clarity around High Potential incidents the systems that are put in place.
A risk ownership, accountability and mitigation Asset Integrity monthly reviews of management maturity assessment was strategies, to promote active engagement, control KPIs associated with all key carried out in 2014 to assess the culture informed debate and constructive challenge, assets across the Group within the Group.
In 2015 a number of and to keep under review the effectiveness Concentration risk tolerable exposure improvements were made to existing of decision making processes.
by: territory: client: contract type: revenue processes to encourage and incentivise Market growth risk agreed bi-annually desired behaviours and to increase Risk appetite in strategy setting meetings, with trends capabilities further.
An example of this is The Groups risk appetite has developed reviewed monthly the improvement in effectiveness of the organically over a number of years based Investment limits for capital DRRC and GRC processes.
The recent on historical risk taking characteristics and expenditure, minimum rates of IRR reorganisation provides the Group with this has continued to develop during 2015. and annual cash-flow targets a strong platform to standardise certain Our appetite for risk is largely governed Liquidity headroom agreed by the processes.
Plans for 2016 will continue through the Delegated Authorities and Risk Board and specified in the Sovereign to develop the desired values, behaviours Review Committees which are embedded and Financial Market Risk Policy and capabilities so that they become across the Group.
Financial strength maintain an EBITDA embedded at all levels.
Debt Ratio agreed with the Board The Board recently reviewed and updated its People risks non-conformances with Delegated Authorities to clarify expectations Code of Conduct, incident reporting and incorporate lessons learnt.
Financial and attrition rates thresholds for determining acceptable Off-strategy risks where the Group levels of risk have also been reviewed.
has a zero tolerance, for example, sanctioned territories As part of the review of our risk framework, the Board continues to believe that it should not apply a single aggregate risk appetite for the Group as a whole, preferring to see risk appetite managed through limits and parameters, which are continuously Viability statement monitored in each business service line In accordance with the provisions of Section business that could potentially impact the and aggregated for review at Group level.
C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Groups ability to fund its future activities and Code 2014, the Directors have assessed the meets its banking covenants.
The key stress Risk appetite is articulated in a variety of viability of the Group over a three year period test scenarios applied were as follows: ways appropriate to the category of risk to 31 December 2018 having taking into account the potential impact of the principal A substantial reduction in the level of new being considered.
For example, at the risks and their mitigating strategies identified order intake in the Onshore Engineering & highest level are our policy statements on pages 30 to 33.
The Board believes that a Construction lump sum contract business which describe our risk-based approach viability assessment period of three years is an A major lump-sum project delivery failure to each category: and our policy standards, appropriate time horizon as this aligns with the in the Engineering & Construction business average duration of our long-term contracts.
which results in material financial losses which describe acceptable controls and This period also represents the first three years being incurred limits, examples of which, can be found in of the Groups longer-term five year financial A reduction of between US$15 and the Sovereign and Financial Market Risk planning period and therefore provides a more US$30 per barrel in the market price Policy, or our Asset Integrity Policy.
robust view of financial outcomes than a five of oil compared with our base case year period.
business plan assumptions for Integrated Energy Services oil and gas assets The three year cash flow forecasts reflect A significant adverse variance in the assumptions relating to the underlying anticipated cash flows in respect of the operating performance of the Groups rationalisation of the IES portfolio and contracts, movements in working capital, JSD6000 vessel construction project capital expenditures and divestments, and the repayment of loans due within Based on the results of this analysis, the forecast period.
the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in The cash flow forecasts have been stress operation and meet its liabilities as they fall tested against a number of what the Directors due over the next three years.
believe are severe but plausible risks to the Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 29
