Risks and uncertainties Minimising risk The risks outlined below are those principal risks and uncertainties that are material to the Group.
They do not include all the risks associated with Group activities and are not set out in any order of priority.
How these risks are identified is described in the Corporate Governance section on pages 51 to 52.
Achieving Playtechs strategic objectives while minimising the key risks the business faces will deliver sustainable and long-term growth.
Risks relating to both the Gaming division and Financials division Risk Magnitude Mitigation Regulation licensing requirements The Group holds a number of licences for its activities from High Playtech has a fully resourced compliance team which regulators.
Loss of all or any of these licences may adversely constantly monitors Group activities and ensures they impact on the revenues and or reputation of the Group.
are compliant with regulatory and licensing requirements.
Regulation changing landscape Group revenues could be impacted by changes in Medium The compliance team has developed good relationships regulations, or failure to obtain any necessary licences.
with regulators throughout the world and is proactive in its approach to changing and evolving regulations.
The team also works closely with its licensees compliance teams to ensure they are equipped to deal with the changing landscape of regulation.
Regulation local requirements New licensing regimes may impose conditions, such Low Playtech works closely with regulators to ensure regulators as the requirement to locate significant technical understand the impact of technical changes and specific infrastructure within the relevant territory or establish and local requirements.
maintain real-time data interfaces with the regulator that present operational challenges, or may prohibit the ability of licensees to offer the full range of the Groups products.
Taxation Given the environment in which the Group operates, Low Management remains fully appraised of developments in the business is exposed to continuously evolving rules domestic and international tax laws within jurisdictions and practices governing the taxation of e-commerce where the Group has a local presence, whether the activity in various jurisdictions.
presence is driven by assets and or people.
Adverse changes to tax rules and changes may increase In conjunction with consultation with the Groups the Groups underlying effective tax rate and reduce professional advisers, management seeks to ensure that profits available for distribution.
evolving tax rules and practices are carefully considered in advance of actual enactment and implementation of changing laws and practices which, together with ensuring that appropriate discipline is strictly adhered to, minimises the risk that potentially adverse consequences will significantly impact the Groups underlying effective tax rate.
36 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Magnitude Mitigation Economic environment Any downturn in consumer discretionary and Medium Playtechs customers and licensees are geographically macroeconomic factors outside of Playtechs control could diverse, which should mitigate reliance on any particular result in reduced spend by consumers on gambling and region.
Management closely monitors business financial trading and the Groups revenues would fall.
performance and, if a downturn were to occur, remedial action commensurate with the nature and scale of the slowdown could be taken.
Cash management use of cash Playtech has significant cash balances, which may be used High The Company has made a number of very successful, to acquire other businesses.
Such acquisitions may not value creating acquisitions and has an established process deliver the expected synergies and or benefits and may in place and experienced staff to conduct thorough due destroy shareholder value.
In addition, foreign exchange diligence before completing any transaction.
exposures could impact on the Groups financial position.
Key employees The Groups future success depends in large part on the Medium The Group provides a stimulating professional environment continued service of a broad leadership team including and has a comprehensive performance evaluation system Executive Directors, senior managers and key personnel.
to identify key talent and to ensure that key personnel are The development and retention of these employees along appropriately rewarded and incentivised through a mixture with the attraction and integration of new talent cannot of salary, annual bonus and long-term incentives linked to be guaranteed.
the attainment of business objectives and revenue growth.
Business continuity & IT security The risk of impairment to our operations for example Medium The Group adopts industry-standard protections to detect through cyber and distributed denial of service DDoS any intrusion or other security breaches, together with attacks, technology failure or terrorist attack continues to preventative measures safeguarding against sabotage, be one that the Group considers to be significant.
Failure hacking, viruses and cybercrime.
The Group works in our systems could significantly affect the services continuously to improve the robustness and security offered to our licensees.
of the Groups information technology systems.
During 2015 the Group made significant investment in its Business Continuity structure.
The Group has engaged a major UK partner to assist them in designing and implementing new plans throughout its key sites.
Additional risks relating to the Gaming division Competitive landscape The gambling industry is extremely competitive and so is Medium The Group continues to invest significant resources the related software and services industry that supports in research and development in order to enhance its it.
Failure to compete effectively may result in the loss of technology, products, content and services, and in licensees and also the inability to attract new licensees.
making acquisitions to broaden the range of technologies, products and services that it can offer to licensees.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 37 Risks and uncertainties continued Additional risks relating to the Financials division Risk Magnitude Mitigation Market exposure The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities Medium Market exposure is monitored 24 hours a day on a real-time could adversely fluctuate due to movements in market basis, using our proprietary automated reporting systems prices of foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, to measure client exposure on all open positions.
Where exposure levels and client behaviour, whether in total or on specific instruments, reaches certain levels, our risk management policy requires that mitigating actions, such as reducing exposure through hedging or liquidity arrangements, are considered.
Regulatory capital adequacy The requirement to maintain adequate regulatory Medium Capital adequacy is monitored 24 hours a day on a realcapital may affect the Groups ability to conduct time basis, using our proprietary automated reporting its business and may reduce profitability.
system, and considered within pre-determined limits set by the risk management committee which include an approved level of buffer to ensure that levels determined by our regulators are not breached.
Where the capital adequacy levels approach the predetermined limits, necessary steps are taken to ensure that exposures are managed so as to not fall foul of regulatory requirements.
Trading volume Low volatility within foreign exchange rates, commodity Medium Trading volumes are monitored in real-time and the prices, equity and index prices may reduce profitability.
number of instruments available for clients to trade continues to increase in order to ensure that potential for market volatility is captured within our offering.
Where markets become volatile within specific instruments, our technology allows for specific and tailored material to be released which highlights such instances to attract trading volume.
38 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech signs five-year Sun Bingo deal In November 2015, Virtue Fusion, Playtechs bingo division, agreed a five-year deal with News UK to operate its Sun Bingo and Fabulous Bingo websites and mobile variants.
The sites will launch in August 2016 following the migration of existing players to Virtue Fusions leading UK bingo network.
The agreement is aligned with Playtechs core strategy of supplying the worlds leading operators, sportsbooks and media brands with market-leading software and services in regulated markets.
Sun Bingo was established in 2005 and is one of the UKs largest and most popular bingo sites.
Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer at Playtech: The Playtech-powered Sun Bingo will use cuttingedge technology to offer best-performing and highly innovative bingo and side games, with fantastic promotions and prizes and the industrys largest jackpots.
This is a fantastic partnership that is aligned with our ongoing strategy of working with the best operators and media brands in regulated markets.
We look forward to working closely with News UK to deliver a first-class product.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 39
