STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The tables below summarise the material financial and operational risks to the Group and how the Group seeks to mitigate them in the day-today running of the business.
Operational Risks Explanation Mitigation The Group operates in The retail industry, including the value Poundland works extremely hard to ensure that it responds the highly competitive general merchandise retail market, is highly adequately to these multiple sources and types of competition, retail market.
competitive, particularly with respect to price, including online competition whether from existing retailers or new product selection and quality, store location entrants, to ensure that competition does not have a material and design, inventory, customer service and adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations and advertising.
The Group competes at national financial condition.
and local levels with a diverse group of retailers of varying sizes and covering different product categories and geographic markets.
These competitors include other single price value general merchandise retailers, multi-price value general merchandise retailers, supermarkets and certain high street retailers in particular categories, such as health and beauty.
The Group may not be Part of the Groups growth strategy is to open The Groups highly motivated and experienced property able to open profitable new stores across the UK and Ireland, and the department are constantly working to identify and secure attractive new stores on a timely Group is currently operating a low risk low cost locations for new stores, including selecting the right store formats.
The low-cost pilot started in July 2014 with our first store in Spain, If Poundland does not open new stores on a followed by a further 4 stores by the year end.
timely or profitable basis, it may not realise its growth strategy.
Poundland also undertakes customer surveys to keep pace with changing customer needs and trends.
The Group may not be Poundlands growth from existing stores is Once open, our retailing colleagues ensure that they gain able to increase sales in dependent upon its ability to increase sales, experience of the new market and develop name recognition and existing stores.
manage costs and improve the efficiencies identify customer demand with a view to successfully competing and effectiveness of its operations.
Increases against local competition on a store-by-store basis.
The Group in sales in existing stores are dependent on seeks to hire, train and retain qualified store management and factors such as competition, merchandise other high quality personnel.
At the same time colleagues within sourcing and selection, store operations and our Distribution Centres and Customer Support Centre look to customer satisfaction.
maintain or improve sourcing and distribution capacity, information systems and other operational system capabilities and manage additional expenses and costs.
The Groups success The success of Poundlands business depends Poundland operates from 3 distribution centres, including 2 is dependent on its on its ability to transport goods from its 3 regional distribution centres located in the Midlands and South logistics and distribution distribution centres to its stores throughout the East England, and 1 national distribution centre located in the infrastructure.
UK and Ireland in a timely and cost-effective Midlands.
All products are taken to one of Poundlands distribution manner.
Any unexpected delivery delays, centres before onwards distribution to Poundlands stores, with the such as due to severe weather or disruptions exception of a small number of products including chilled which to the national or international transportation are delivered direct to stores by the supplier or a third-party.
infrastructure, or increases in transportation During the year Poundland opened its new purpose built costs, such as due to increased fuel costs, warehouse in Harlow.
The building was completed on time and could materially adversely affect the Groups handed over to Poundland in August 2014, enabling us to install business.
First deliveries commenced in early September and Hoddesdon was decommissioned by the end of October.
Harlow is now fully operational servicing just over 220 stores with a further 60 stores to be added this year.
The Groups cash flows To be successful, Poundland must maintain Poundland has been successfully maintaining sufficient inventory from operations may sufficient inventory levels to meet its levels throughout its 25 year history and continues to employ the be negatively affected customers demands without allowing those good habits that it has gained through this extensive experience.
if it is not successful in levels to increase to an extent such that the Poundland, like other retailers, experiences inventory shrinkage, and managing its inventory costs to store and hold the goods unduly employs measures that will reduce the problem.
balances or level of impact its financial results.
If Poundland is not inventory shrinkage.
successful in managing its inventory balances, In August 2014 Poundland Group appointed an experienced Head of its cash flows from operations may be Profit Protection to set about a new approach to tackling shrink and negatively affected.
striving to better manage Risk.
Significant investment has been made in increasing the headcount in this newly formed function growing from 4 heads to 11, attracting Industry recognised individuals with a proven track record for delivery within a retail setting.
In January 2015, all Business Managers attended a full day event dedicated to Inventory Loss and Loss Management 12 new tools were launched across the business to help management interrogate and investigate stock discrepancies.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 26 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 Operational Risks Explanation Mitigation Poundland relies on Like many retailers, Poundland is dependent Poundland is proud that, on a value basis, over 80% of our third-party suppliers on being able to source suitable products from products are sourced from UK suppliers.
However, whenever and needs to identify, suppliers in sufficient quantities, at sufficiently necessary, we have the ability to source and develop product on a develop and maintain low cost and in a timely manner but may not global basis.
relationships with a be able to do so in such a way as to meet our Poundland has good, long-term relationships with most of its significant number of needs.
suppliers which are continuing to improve as an overwhelming qualified suppliers.
number of primary manufacturers supply us on a direct basis.
Major manufacturers and suppliers are increasingly recognising the significant opportunity that Poundland is offering them to expand their brand reach.
Economic Risks Explanation Mitigation Inflation or other factors Poundlands current pricing strategy is Poundland has been able to profitably maintain its current UK 1 may affect Poundlands predicated on providing a wide range of single price strategy for 25 years by managing its product range ability to keep pricing at merchandise for profitable resale at a single such as by introducing new higher margin branded and own label 1 in the UK and 1.49 price point of 1 in the UK or 1.49 for the vast products or discontinuing low margin products, re-engineering for the majority of its majority of products in Ireland.
pack sizes, moving sources of supply to lower cost economies products in Ireland.
and renegotiating with suppliers, and it will continue to apply this strategy whilst closely monitoring any factors which may affect the Groups single price point strategy.
The Groups business Poor economic conditions in the UK, Ireland Poundland has established its market-leading position in the UK by may be adversely and globally, as well as economic factors such continuously focusing on delivering amazing value to its customers affected by economic as unemployment levels, consumer debt levels, every day and it is this focus that has allowed Poundland not conditions and other lack of available credit, fuel costs, inflation, only to survive but to grow significantly during the recent period factors in the UK, Ireland interest and tax rates, may adversely affect the of severe economic downturn.
We believe that this was achieved and globally.
disposable income of Poundlands customers, by selling a wide range of great products and top brands, offering which could result in lower sales.
many new exciting lines each week, at a price point intended to offer customers amazing value for money, and we will continue this strategy into the future.
In a 2013 study prepared for the Group comparing prices on a range of 106 comparable products to UK grocery chains Asda, Tesco and Sainsbury, Poundland was the cheapest or joint cheapest 90% of the time.
The Group may be The Group pays certain suppliers overseas in The Groups policy allows these exposures to be hedged for up subject to adverse US dollars: however, Poundlands customers to 18 months forward in order to fix the cost in pounds sterling.
fluctuations in currency pay for products in sterling in the UK and Hedging is performed through the use of foreign currency exchange rates.
Consequently, the Group bank accounts and forward foreign exchange contracts.
These bears the risk of disadvantageous changes in contracts are put in place as part of the Groups gross margin exchange rates.
It enables buyers to be given targeted buying rates for products, which are set lower than the hedged rate.
Employment Explanation Mitigation Risks The Group depends on The success of Poundlands strategy depends The Group operates a remuneration policy the aim of which is to the Executive Team and on the continuing services of the Executive attract, retain and motivate high calibre senior management and to other highly qualified Team and the Groups ability to continue focus them on the delivery of the Groups strategic and business employees to manage its to attract, motivate and retain other highly objectives, to promote a strong and sustainable performance business and brands.
Retention of the Executive culture, to incentivise high growth and to align the interests of Team and other highly qualified employees is Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee with especially important in the Groups business those of Shareholders through encouraging equity ownership.
In due to the limited availability of experienced promoting these objectives the policy aims to ensure that no more and talented retail executives.
than is necessary is paid and has been structured so as to adhere to the principles of good corporate governance and appropriate risk management.
