24 Premier Farnell Principal risks, uncertainties and opportunities The Principal Risks and Uncertainties facing the Group are Management also reviews specific strategic, operational, summarised below.
and financial and compliance risks in regular focused forums during the year: SETmeetings: quarterly business reviews The disclosure of risks and uncertainties in the table below with each of the businesses: major programmes and project reflects the approach of the Company to also look for the reviews: and at other key executive management meetings.
opportunities presented when addressing significantrisks.
Further details on our risk management and internal control The Principal Risks are formally reviewed twice per year by procedures are included on page 42. the Board.
Updates in terms of emerging risks or significant actions undertaken are addressed as and when required at Board meetings.
The Principal Risks are determined through an evaluation of likelihood of occurrence and potential impact, with a full review also undertaken by the Senior Executive Team SET.
Relative increase Risks and decrease compared uncertainties to prior year Mitigating actions Opportunities Business Risks Competitive We continue to build our high service We continue to implement strategic initiatives pressures proposition by adding new technologies and to build customer loyalty and provide a increase a broad range of products, working closely with differentiated proposition for our customer suppliers as we provide end-to-end solutions base.
Our proposition is increasingly S O throughout their product development process.
personalised to meet the needs of customers in targeted segments.
We are rationalising our element14 organisation by globalising our operating model and We are partnering more closely with suppliers leveraging the efficiencies of the web.
as we look to support the introduction of their new technology and drive market share gains in key market segments.
Insufficient We have a fully integrated multichannel sales By enhancing and better targeting our offering, progress with and marketing plan that is aligned with the wider and developing the customer proposition by improving element14 strategy and the evolution of our global leveraging our global resources, we can performance in proposition.
This plan is aimed at addressing the significantly improve operating performance the Americas needs of our customers, including a focus on in the Americas.
specific segmentation by type of customers S O R and vertical industries.
Failure to leverage Embest and AVIDs engineers are working Leveraging our technology expertise offers our technology together to optimise performance of specific significant opportunities in meeting the needs expertise and projects.
Investments have been made to of our component manufacturer customers but new partnerships with develop the leadership teams and back office also in our core engineering customer base.
key suppliers systems at Embest.
S Long term Software and services are increasingly part Environmental and technology trends are sources evolution of the of our offering to product development of electronics innovation which underpin sales electronic customers.
This increases the value that they to our product development customers.
component extract from our proposition while diversifying Through ongoing focus on reducing the distribution model our business model away from pure distribution.
environmental impact of doing business, we S The Group takes actions to reduce the impact are introducing more efficient processes and of its business on the environment through can offer further complementary services to carbon emissions and by encouraging our customers.
Our regional warehouse model reduces the impact of carbon emissions compared to alternatives.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 25 Relative increase Risks and decrease compared uncertainties to prior year Mitigating actions Opportunities People Business The CEO, CFO and CPO are directly involved Our new global structure will facilitate better reorganisation in managing this model change, supported sharing of expertise and resources across as we evolve our by both experienced programme managers the business globally.
It will allow us to enhance new business model and high performing employees from across the service we provide to meet the needs the business.
of customers and suppliers across S O regional boundaries.
Recruitment, We actively measure the retention of talent We seek to actively engage employees development within our organisation which provides us by focusing on training and development, or retention of with the ability to track trends and act with customer relationships, leadership, social talented people the appropriate and necessary actions.
S O Reward schemes are continuously evaluated New global structure will provide key to drive and reward performance and ensure people with better ways of working and retention of key talent.
Systems, data and infrastructure Data and content A dedicated data function has been established Increased planned investment in global systems, quality inhibit to ensure compliance with internal processes data and data management processes to effectiveness of and external regulations.
provide our customers with high quality product our eCommerce information and suppliers with rich insights into A data strategy and governance framework has strategy customer behaviour as well as enabling greater been developed to support the information operating efficiencies.
S O requirements of our strategic programmes.
Significant failure Business continuity plans are kept under review We continually improve workflows and operational or inefficiencies for all our locations.
efficiencies and provide increased capacity and in our systems investment in capability.
Our IT infrastructure is subject to ongoing review and infrastructure and we conduct regular testing of our systems.
O Cyber security Sophisticated cyber security tools are Providing a safe and secure online experience to failure leading employed to block external threats and attacks customers is potentially differentiating compared to revenue or including enhanced, integrated security in the with smaller, less established competitors.
reputational loss new global web platform.
new O A computer incident response team has been established alongside enhanced internal training and review processes.
Legal Legal and We have exposure to a number of countries The increase in environmental legislation for regulatory risks and their respective legal compliance electronics, such as the introduction of REACH, requirements are addressed through a variety allows us to provide real value to our customers O of controls.
Key S Strategic Requires a strategic response O Operational Requires an operational response R Regional Specific to one region
