32 Principal risks and uncertainties Understanding and managing our risks Key risk Associated Description and impact Likelihood Impact Mitigation Associated Responsibility Risk strategic KPIs appetite priority The Groups revenue is predominantly derived from government customers in Medium High The Group services the UK defence domains of Air, Land, Maritime and Joint Forces Customer Business Hungry Defence Customers the defence and security sector.
70% of the Groups revenue comes directly from as well as adjacent sectors.
This provides a degree of portfolio diversification.
satisfaction Development and security contracts with the UK Government and 7% comes directly from contracts with The Group will continue to monitor expenditure changes in its traditional markets Director spending the US Government.
and will adjust business activities where appropriate.
Strategic Any reduction in government defence and security spending in either the UK The MOD has made considerable progress in balancing its equipment budget.
Business or the US could have an adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
In defence research, where QinetiQ is the private sector market leader, spending Director The financial burden on both UK and US Government budgets from the current was stabilising at about 400m p. a. due to the 1.2% floor on R&T spend pre SDSR.
Defence economic downturn may lead to reduced spending in the markets in which the QinetiQ monitors and responds to potential opportunities arising from the MODs Group operates.
actions to deliver improved value for money by making proactive proposals that This could be exacerbated by the Comprehensive Spending Review CSR as well as deliver the desired outcome.
the next Strategic Defence and Security Review SDSR expected to follow the 2015 QinetiQ expects that the SDSR process will enable consultation between Government General Election.
The SDSR is expected to take place in the next 12 months.
The total and industry to ensure UK defence priorities are properly considered.
amount, and subdivision of, UK defence spending post SDSR may be different to the Further investment in the pursuit of international opportunities assists in the current budget.
The Groups main contracts are exposed to spend on Test & Evaluation diversification away from the dependency on UK and US Government spending.
and Research & Technology, both of which are expected to be studied in the SDSR.
US products such as unmanned systems are targeted to be funded through Programs The Groups US products business approximately 60m annual revenue has been of Record i. e. in the US Base budget in approx 2017. largely funded through overseas contingency budgets which are expected to decline as the US withdraws from Afghanistan.
The aerospace, defence and security markets are highly competitive.
The Groups Medium High QinetiQ seeks to focus on areas within these markets in which its deep customer Customer Business Balanced Complex Customers performance may be adversely affected should it not be able to compete in the understanding, domain knowledge, technical expertise and platform independence satisfaction Development market markets in which it aims to operate.
provide a strong proposition and a significant advantage in competitive bidding.
Director characteristics Following the Currie Review, the Defence Reform Act and the Single Source QinetiQ and defence industry partners have been fully engaged with the MOD in Strategic and contract Regulations are now in place.
The Single Source Regulations Office SSRO is the development of the new Orange Book framework and its practical application.
Business profile established with a Chairman and Board appointed.
The Yellow Book, a legally QinetiQ and defence industry partners have been consulted by the SSRO on the Director binding framework, has been replaced by the Orange Book for how single sourced draft Statutory Guidance, due to be published early in 2015.
Defence work must be contracted to ensure that a fair and reasonable price is paid for The contracts and orders pipeline is regularly reviewed by senior operational management.
goods and services procured in the absence of competition.
The nature of many of the services provided under fixed-price arrangements is often This could have an adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
for a defined amount of effort or resource rather than firm deliverables and, as a The Baseline Profit Rate for single sourced work has been set at 10.6% for 2016 result, mitigates the risk of costs escalating.
The Group ensures that its fixed-price 2015: 10.7% This percentage is reviewed annually.
The new regulations apply bids and projects are reviewed for early detection and management of issues which to new single source contracts over 5m in value from April 2015.
Approximately may result in cost over-run or excessive delivery risk.
33% of EMEA Services revenue is derived from single sourced work, excluding the non-tasking element of the LTPA contract.
The ongoing transformation of the UK MODs Defence Equipment and Support fide&S organisation has now adopted a model of bespoke trading entity rather than Government-Owned Contractor-Operated, which was the intended model.
fide&S has hired Managed Service Providers MSPs, companies to help drive the transformation programme to improve programme delivery and implement new systems and processes as it looks to reduce costs.
Some of the Groups revenue is derived from contracts that have a fixed price.
There is a risk that the costs required for the delivery of a contract could be higher than those agreed in the contract as a result of the performance of new or developed products, operational over-runs or external factors.
Any significant increase in costs which cannot be passed on to a customer may reduce the profitability of a contract or even result in a contract becoming loss making.
Many of the Groups contracts have terms, not unusual in defence, that provide for unlimited liabilities for the Group, or termination rights for the customer, often without cause.
The timing of orders receipts could have a material impact on the Groups performance in a given reporting period as the amounts payable under some government contracts can be significant.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 33 Key risk Associated Description and impact Likelihood Impact Mitigation Associated Responsibility Risk strategic KPIs appetite priority The Groups revenue is predominantly derived from government customers in Medium High The Group services the UK defence domains of Air, Land, Maritime and Joint Forces Customer Business Hungry Defence Customers the defence and security sector.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 34 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Key risk Associated Description and impact Likelihood Impact Mitigation Associated Responsibility Risk strategic KPIs appetite priority Organisational Conflicts of Interest OCI may occur where the Group provides Medium High QinetiQ takes proactive steps to manage any potential OCI and maintain its Customer Strategic Balanced Complex Customers services to both a defence end-user customer as well as those within the defence ability to provide independent advice.
QinetiQ operates under the MODs generic satisfaction Business market supply chain.
formal compliance regime and applies a rigorous compliance process.
Director characteristics Where QinetiQ wishes to operate on both the advice and supply chain side Defence and contract of an opportunity we do so only after receiving approval from the MOD.
profile continued The Group is reliant on a limited number of major customers.
A material element Medium High In February 2013 the Group signed the LTPA for a third five-year period with the Customer LTPA Director Hungry Customers of the Groups revenue is derived from one contract.
The Long Term Partnering MOD.
The next scheduled re-pricing break point is in 2018. satisfaction Agreement LTPA is a 25-year contract to provide test, evaluation, and training The Group continues to achieve strong customer performance and satisfaction levels, services to the MOD.
The original contract was signed in 2003.
The LTPA operates and significantly exceeded the agreed minimum performance rating of 80% in 2014. under five-year periods with specific programmes, targets and performance The Group has achieved significant cost savings for the MOD on delivered services, measures set for each period.
and is on track to exceed the 700m of savings originally projected to be delivered In 2015 the LTPA directly contributed 26% of the Groups revenue and supported over the life of the contract.
a further 17% through tasking services using LTPA managed facilities.
The Group expects to engage with the MOD regarding the study of future plans for test and evaluation services within the SDSR.
The Group operates in many specialised engineering, technical and scientific domains.
Low High The Group conducts regular activities to identify key roles and personnel.
Succession Health and Business Unit Balanced Recruitment Employees The lack of graduates in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics plans are in place looking internally at candidates ready now or in need of development Safety Managing and retention STEM domains leads to future skills shortage.
to fill particular roles and externally to identify people QinetiQ may wish to attract.
Voluntary Directors Key capabilities and competencies may be lost through failure to recruit and QinetiQ has made improvements in employee engagement and conducts an annual employee retain employees due to internal factors, as well as macro factors across the satisfaction survey.
turnover sector affecting the desirability, intake and training of engineers, scientists STEM outreach from primary school age through to work experience and Employee and technicians.
satisfaction QinetiQ is leading industry in The 5% Club, a campaign to increase the recruitment % of graduates of graduates and apprentices.
and apprentices The Group operates in a highly regulated IT environment.
High High Data security is assured through a multi-layered approach that provides a Underlying Business Unit Cautious Breaches The way The data held by QinetiQ is confidential and needs to be secure, hardened environment, including robust physical security arrangements and data operating profit Managing of security we work against a background of increasing cyber threat.
Profit after tax Directors and IT systems A breach of data security or IT systems failure could have an adverse impact Comprehensive internal and external testing of potential vulnerabilities is conducted Underlying EPS Functional failure on our customers operations, resulting in significant reputational damage, along with 24 7 monitoring.
Underlying Directors as well as the possibility of exclusion from some types of government contracts.
The Group engages with US and UK Government contracting audit agencies, to enable operating The Groups financial systems are required to be adequate to support US and UK them to test relevant financial systems and data, and implements any recommended cash flow Government contracting regulations.
Information systems are designed with consideration to single points of failure and the removal of risk of minor and major system failures.
The Group maintains business continuity plans that cover geographical assets as well as the technical capability of employees.
These plans cover a range of scenarios including loss of access to IT and are regularly tested.
Risks include: regulation and administration Low Medium While the Group has a growing geographical footprint, its traditional activities are Orders Business Unit Cautious Trading in a Growth changes, taxation policy, political instability, civil unrest, and differences in culture.
confined to the UK and the US.
Organic revenue Managing global market Orientation Negative events could disrupt some of the Groups operations and have a material Relationships or contracts in new markets are assessed for their inherent risks, using growth Directors impact on its future financial performance.
our International Business Risk Assessment process, before being formally agreed.
International This allows opportunities to be reviewed at different levels of management according Business to their inherent risk.
Development Director QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 35 Key risk Associated Description and impact Likelihood Impact Mitigation Associated Responsibility Risk strategic KPIs appetite priority Organisational Conflicts of Interest OCI may occur where the Group provides Medium High QinetiQ takes proactive steps to manage any potential OCI and maintain its Customer Strategic Balanced Complex Customers services to both a defence end-user customer as well as those within the defence ability to provide independent advice.
Development Director QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 36 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Key risk Associated Description and impact Likelihood Impact Mitigation Associated Responsibility Risk strategic KPIs appetite priority The Group operates in highly regulated environments and recognises that its Low High The Group has robust policy, procedures and training in place to ensure that it meets Underlying Business Unit Cautious Significant The way operations have the potential to have an impact on a variety of stakeholders.
all current regulations: for example role-specific safety training and business ethics operating profit Managing breach of we work Failure to comply with particular regulations could result in a combination of fines, training which is mandatory for Board members and all employees across the Group.
Profit after tax Directors relevant penalties, civil or criminal action.
The QinetiQ Code of Conduct defines clear expectation for the Group and its Underlying EPS Functional laws and In addition, failure may also lead to suspension or debarment from government employees: for example it states that the Group does not tolerate bribery and Underlying Directors regulations contracts, as well as reputational damage to the QinetiQ brand.
corruption and will comply with relevant international trade regulations.
operating Key areas of focus for the Group include the following: The Group manages the effective identification, measurement and control cash flow Safety liability of products, services and advice.
Health and Workplace and occupational health, safety and environmental matters.
Local management continuously monitor local laws.
Professional advice is sought Safety Bribery and ethics.
when engaging in new territories to ensure that the Group complies with local International trade controls.
Accreditation to external standards: for example safety and environmental systems continue to be accredited to international standards: external authorisation for regulated design and maintenance services in the aviation sector.
The Group operates a defined benefit DB pension scheme which is closed Medium High Scheme performance is reviewed regularly by Group management in conjunction Profit after tax Group Balanced Defined The way to future accrual.
with the schemes independent Trustee.
Underlying EPS Treasurer benefit we work At the year end the DB pension scheme was a liability of 39.4m under an External actuarial and investment advice is regularly taken to ensure the best Underlying pension IAS 19 basis.
interests of both the Group and the scheme members.
operating obligations The size of the deficit may be materially affected by a number of factors, including The Group works in collaboration with the Trustees to agree an investment strategy cash flow inflation, investment returns, changes in interest rates and improvements in life that progressively fide-risks the scheme as the funding level improves.
The Company continues to pay the deficit recovery payments outstanding from Any change to the deficit may require the Group to increase the cash contributions the 2011 valuation.
Company contributions to the scheme are expected to continue to the scheme, which would reduce the Groups cash available for other purposes.
The scheme was closed to future accrual on 31 October 2013.
At the year end 45% of the inflation risk is hedged and 20% of interest rate risk hedged, measured on a gilts basis.
A 5% inflation cap protects 264m of pensioner liabilities for ten years to 2025.
QinetiQ is liable to pay tax in the countries in which it operates, principally the UK High High External advice and consultation are sought on potential changes in tax legislation Profit after tax Group Tax Balanced Tax legislation The way and the US.
in the UK, the US and elsewhere as necessary enabling the Group to plan for and Underlying EPS Manager we work Changes in tax legislation in these countries could have an adverse impact on the manage potential changes.
level of tax paid on profits generated by the Group.
The Group is currently actively engaging with industry, MOD and industry bodies In the UK, R&D Expenditure Credits RDEC were introduced from 1 April 2013 and regarding the treatment of RDEC.
will be mandatory from 1 April 2016, replacing the R&D super deduction.
Until that The Group has 291.6m of UK tax losses carried forward as at 31 March 2015 date, QinetiQ expects to claim the super deduction while the treatment of RDEC 2014: 213.9m.
for MOD single source contracts remains under discussion between industry and the Government.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 37 Key risk Associated Description and impact Likelihood Impact Mitigation Associated Responsibility Risk strategic KPIs appetite priority The Group operates in highly regulated environments and recognises that its Low High The Group has robust policy, procedures and training in place to ensure that it meets Underlying Business Unit Cautious Significant The way operations have the potential to have an impact on a variety of stakeholders.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
