Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Addressing our risks Regulatory, finance and tax risk Risk Impact Mitigation Regulation Adverse regulatory changes in legislation continue to We participate actively in Increasing represent a signi cant risk.
Changes in political and social trade bodies representations to Regulatory changes attitudes to gambling in our key markets and negative Government and opposition parties, could increase the cost publicity surrounding the gambling industry could and work to enable stakeholders of doing business or in uence regulators perception of gambling and to understand our business and its limit the products and could lead to increased gambling regulation.
positive contribution to the economy services we can offer.
We continue to work hard to promote the Keep it Fun More information brand and website to customers, Operating review 25 regulators and the public to fideTax fact le 40 mystify the perception of casinos, promote a safe environment for play and illustrate the Companys position in leading the industry in this eld.
Taxation Adverse changes in scal regulation continue to be a Rank is a leading participant in its Stable signi cant risk.
From December 2014 we have been relevant trade organisations and Any increases in the required to pay UK Remote Gaming Duty at a rate takes an active part in all relevant levels of taxation or of 15% for the remote digital gaming business.
levies to which we are subject, or the More information implementation of any Tax fact le 40 new taxes or levies to which we will be subject, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 21 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risk Risk Impact Mitigation New online gaming platform transition andimplementation The Group is in the process of replacing its online The project is now in the software Increasing gaming platform, which is of signi cant strategic development stage and has engaged This project is a key importance and represents the largest IT project appropriate experienced resources strategic enabler, so any underway.
A supplier, Bede Gaming, has been selected.
internally to support its delivery.
failures in the delivery of The key risks for this project include failure to: a specify The selected supplier is expert in the project risk having correctly the Groups requirements with the result that its eld and a professional project an adverse effect on the the platform is not t for purpose: b deliver the project management and governance ability to optimise the on time and on budget: c conduct adequate testing structure is in place to ensure that digital platform and its to ensure that the platform is effective: d manage the schedule, budget and deliverables associated business, adequately the transition from the existing platform: are tracked and monitored.
consequently impacting and e provide for an appropriate exit strategy.
More information Strategy and key performance indicators 15 Volatility of gaming win Win percentages for gambling activities can vary Gaming limits are actively used to Stable manage the exposure of the business over a short period of time, although they will stabilise Gaming win margin over a longer period.
The business is also vulnerable to the at all times.
directly impacts potential impact of a small number of customers who can Programmes are in place to manage pro tability.
create volatility from the level of their gaming win.
Win high staking VIP customers through percentages may also be affected by misfeasance or any a dedicated VIP team and reward other problems with the accurate running of the game.
programmes exist to manage and incentivise loyalty.
More information Resources, including a security team, Operating review 25 are in place to review and detect misfeasance and any other operational dif culties with game play.
Loss of licences Ranks gaming licences are fundamental to its operation.
Rank has a dedicated compliance Stable In the British venues part of the business there is a function that is independent of The loss of licences requirement to hold an operators licence from the operations and a separate internal could have an adverse UK Gambling Commission the body responsible for audit function that is independent of effect on our business regulating commercial gambling in Great Britain in both operations and the compliance and pro tability and respect of each of the licensed activities undertaken.
Rank maintains a strong prevent us from Additionally, it is necessary to hold premises licences and open relationship with the UK providing gambling from the relevant local authority in which each venue Gambling Commission and the other services.
is situated, one for gambling activities and one for the sale relevant regulatory bodies in all of alcohol.
Our UK customer facing transactional websites jurisdictions in which we operate.
require a licence from the Alderney Gambling Control Commission.
With effect from 14 September 2014, an operators licence for our remote operations has been required from the UK Gambling Commission.
Our operations in Spain and Belgium are also subject to licensing requirements in the jurisdictions and local areas in which they operate.
22 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Risk Impact Mitigation Business continuity and disaster recovery Due to the venues based nature of much of the business, A Group business continuity plan Stable the Groups signi cant reliance on technology, and the is in place and regularly reviewed.
If business continuity criticality of staff in serving customers and running the Departmental plans are required for and disaster recovery business, serious disruptive events such as building re, all critical departments and premises, plans failed to operate pandemic or serious technology failure may cause an and managed by the director of successfully the business interruption to the ability to operate elements of the security.
IT plans were reviewed in would experience delays business if business continuity and disaster recovery light of the transfer of risk arising in recovering critical plans failed to operate successfully.
through the engagement of IT revenue generating outsourced supplier Tata Consultancy activities or operational Services and suitable plans are in More information processes, such as place for their operations.
Operating review 25 financial reporting, causing both financial and reputational damage.
Wage rise in ation We employ a large number of employees at or just above Rank continually monitors the Stable the minimum wage.
The introduction of the national regulatory environment for changes Changes generating living wage will increase our costs.
Further changes to with a view to ensuring that signi cant employment employment regulations could have an adverse impact on appropriate compensatory cost in ation could the Groups results.
productivity improvements can be negatively impact the implemented and the additional Groups pro tability.
More information Chairmans letter 6 Operating responsibly 34 Information technology risk Risk Impact Mitigation Reliance on technology The Group is highly dependent on complex technology The IT outsourcing to Tata Stable and advanced information systems with many interfaces Consultancy Services has If our prevention and a signi cant number of separate suppliers.
The substantially enhanced the resources measures for technology pace of business change and development means that for providing business support and attacks should fail our IT changes such as new software coding, systems resilience around key systems.
reputation may be enhancements and new software application integrations Over the past year a substantial harmed and customers are undertaken continually and consequently these amount of investment has been put deterred from using our systems are inherently vulnerable to experiencing into enhancing the security, network services which may in malfunctions, failures, or cyber attacks such as viruses and application infrastructure and turn have a material or hacker intrusion.
Comprehensive technology resilience further work will continue into the adverse effect on our and systems protection measures are in place but it is coming year.
dif cult to detect all threats and vulnerabilities in order Failures in service to prevent all service interruptions and problems.
provision could also render the Group unable More information to serve customers Strategy and key performance indicators 15 during such service interruptions, again having an adverse effect on revenue and pro t. THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 23 Developing our venues Strategic priority W eve developed our venues to 3 offer the ultimate casino experience.
Our table games, slot machines, electronic roulette and poker have been designed with our customers in mind.
Not forgetting superb restaurants serving great food, and a late-night bar!
Tom Docherty, General Manager, Grosvenor Casino Southend
