Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information RISK MANAGEMENT AND RISKS Our Risk Management Process incorporated into policies and procedures, The Risk Register is circulated to the Once strategic and financial objectives have monthly management meetings and weekly divisional management teams for collation HOW WE MANAGE RISK been set by the Main Board principal risks are operational meetings.
of their feedback as part of the annual risk identified by the Executive Committee which review process.
Certain risks are mitigated through the risk could affect the Companys ability to achieve being transferred contractually or through The risk owners update the scoring of the those objectives.
relevant sections of the Risk Register to BOARD OVERSIGHT The Risk Register is formulated from the reflect any changes to the risk impact and Our Risk Assessment Process principal risks and is updated on an annual probability.
Internal controls over these risks Main Board Analysis of the strategic objectives enables basis to reflect any changes to the risk profile are categorised into prevent controls risks faced by the organisation to be identified.
The top level risks each have an individual risk Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Sustainability Committee Following the updates to the Risk Register and owner responsible for updating the importance The Risk Register is reviewed by the Audit the subsequent approval obtained from the of the risk in current market conditions and any Committee to ensure the risks are appropriate Audit Committee, actions to minimise and changes required in the management of the to the business.
where possible eliminate those risks are risk on an annual basis.
OPERATIONAL COMMITTEES Executive Committee Divisional Boards Functional Seminars Team Meetings OUR RISK ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT PROCESS Agree Strategic and Financial Objectives POLICIES FOR HIGHLIGHTING AND CONTROLLING RISK Land Appraisal Budgeting Price & Sales Monitoring Cost Reviews Executive Board Establish Principal Risks Assign Risks to Owners Annual Review by Divisional Management Teams PROCEDURES AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Authorisation Processes Business Process Reviews Site Completion Reviews Risks and Scoring Updated by Owners Feedback to Risk Owners Business Policies and Procedures System Based Controls Updated Risk Register Reviewed by Operational Finance Team PEOPLE AND CULTURE Executive Board Review and Sign-Off Professionalism Strong Communication Qualified Personnel Pride and Achievement Interests Aligned with Shareholders Commitment to Training Audit Committee Review and Sign-Off Update Risk Register Update Policies and Procedures BUSINESS RISK Risks incorporated into Management and Operational Meetings Activity Action 38 39 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information RISK MANAGEMENT AND RISKS CO N T I N U ED Category Risk Risk Owner Key Controls and Mitigating Strategies Risk Movement Category Risk Risk Owner Key Controls and Mitigating Strategies Risk Movement Housing Market conditions Group Chief Close monitoring of, and proactive management Land procurement Group Development Clearly defined strategy and long term The conditions within the Executive response to, key indicators of the housing market.
The ability to purchase land Director focus on forward land.
UK housing market are suitable for our products and Review of weekly sales.
Close monitoring of market conditions by fundamental to Redrows the timing of future land experienced management team.
Monitoring of competitor performance and business performance.
purchases are fundamental incentives given.
Strong, experienced and knowledgeable land, to the Groups future Improve Maintain a planning and technical teams.
Returns Quality Regular review and improvement of the Land bank product range in response to changes in Utilisation of external lawyers with appropriate market conditions.
Professional Indemnity Insurance for larger site acquisitions.
Availability of Group Finance Proactively engage with the Government, mortgage finance Director lenders and insurers to support the new and Planning and Group Development Close monitoring of planning environment Lending criteria and deposit second hand housing market.
regulatory environment Director by experienced management team.
requirements for mortgages The ability to respond and Support Government initiatives such as Help Local knowledge of divisional planning and remain key issues in the adapt to the changing planning to Buy and Help to Buy Mortgage Guarantee.
and regulatory environment Improve Monitoring of consumer credit legislation.
Well prepared, high quality planning is key to Redrows future Returns Maintain a submissions addressing local concerns and business performance.
Quality Panel of New Build Mortgage Specialists utilised demonstrating good design.
Land bank to provide an immediate update in respect of regulatory changes.
Additional controls have been introduced during the year to monitor the funding quality of the Housing Associations, with social housing quotes Group Finance Bank facilities with appropriate covenants Liquidity and funding being signed off prior to land deals proceeding.
An extension to The Group requires committed banking facilities has been appropriate facilities for obtained encompassing a reduction in margin.
Group Design and Design is an integral part of our business.
its short term liquidity and Appropriateness of product Technical Director long term funding needs.
The failure to design and build Capital structure regularly reviewed.
Focus on high build quality, with regular site a desirable product for our Improve visits being undertaken.
Regular communication with investors customers at the appropriate Returns and relationship banks.
Product changes implemented during price may undermine Redrows the year have improved our flexibility to ability to fulfil its business Produce a Strong forecasting and budgeting process planning changes.
Quality providing a clear view of future cash flows.
Product The Regent Collection has been rolled out to provide exceptional kerb appeal and a distinctive Customer service Regional Chief The new Customer First business processes are lifestyle.
The failure of our customer Executive currently being introduced to further improve The Abode Collection has been introduced in the services may undermine our customer experience.
year to provide a contemporary alternative to Redrows ability to fulfil its Improved customer engagement through My the Regent Collection.
Redrow section of our website to support our Excellent customers when purchasing a new home.
Customer Cyber security IT Director Proactive management of software Service Failure of the Groups IT security updates.
Ensure high quality design to deliver sustainable systems and the security communities.
Regular third party testing of the Groups of our internal systems, cyber security systems.
Quarterly internal audit procedures introduced Improve during the year.
Returns No change Increase Decrease 40 41 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information RISK MANAGEMENT AND RISKS CO N T I N U ED Category Risk Risk Owner Key Controls and Mitigating Strategies Risk Movement Health and safety Group Health and Dedicated Health and Safety team operating environment Safety Director across the Group to ensure appropriate A significant Health and standards are applied.
Safety or environmental Regular site visits and audits are undertaken.
incident may put people, All staff receive appropriate training through the environment and High in-house and external programmes.
Standards in Health Divisional CDM Client inspection process has & Safety been implemented during the year in response to increased Health and Safety requirements.
Health and Safety monitoring forms part of the monthly divisional Board reporting packs.
Key supplier, main contractor Group Commercial Utilisation of suppliers, main contractors or subcontractor failure Director and subcontractors with a strong track The failure or inability to record and reputation.
expand capacity of a key Close monitoring of supplier, main supplier, main contractor or contractor and subcontractor quality subcontractor may disrupt Improve through annual assessments.
Redrows ability to manage Returns Group Monthly Product Development its production process in meetings now being held as a consequence an efficient and cost of the increased regulatory environment.
The shortage of skilled trades is mitigated by the monitoring of the subcontract supply chain to maintain the appropriate number of companies for each trade.
Subcontractor utilisation on sites is monitored to ensure workload and capacity are aligned.
Attracting and retaining staff Group Human National training centre.
The loss of key staff and Resources Director Remuneration strategy reviewed regularly our failure to attract high and benchmarked to retain quality staff.
quality employees may inhibit Personal Development Programmes.
Redrows ability to achieve its business objectives.
Training Graduate training and undergraduate for the placement programmes.
Future Apprentice training programme including office apprentices.
Communication enhanced through the Employee Survey and circulation of the InSight e-magazine.
Fraud uninsured losses Finance Director Systems, policies and procedures have A significant fraud or uninsured Operations been designed to segregate duties and loss could damage the financial minimise the opportunity for fraud.
Regular Business Process Reviews undertaken to ensure compliance with policies and procedures.
Improve Divisional Action Plans have been implemented Returns during the year as part of the Business Process Review.
Timely management reporting and challenge.
The Letchworth house type at Aston Fields, Shifnal, Shropshire No change Increase Decrease 42 43 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
