60 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Principal risks The Group has established risk management practices that are risk will not materialise and or adversely affect our business or embedded into the operations of the businesses, based on the financial performance.
Our risk management and internal control Internal Control-Integrated Framework 2013 issued by the processes are described in the Corporate Governance section.
Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Adescription of the business and a discussion of factors affecting Commission COSO.
The principal risks facing the business, performance is set out in the Chief Executive Officers report which have been considered by the Audit Committees and Boards, andBusiness Review.
Financial risks are discussed in the Chief are described below.
While our process is robust and includes Financial Officers report and in note 19 to the consolidated consideration of risks that would threaten the Groups business financial statements.
Our approach to managing environmental models and its solvency, it is not possible to identify every risk that and other non-financial risks is set out in the Business Review could affect our businesses, and the actions taken to mitigate the andthe separate Corporate Responsibility Report.
risks described below cannot provide absolute assurance that a EXTERNAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Economy and Demand for our products and services may Our businesses are focused on professional markets which have market be impacted by factors such as the economic generally been more resilient in periods of economic downturn.
conditions environment in the US, Europe and other We deliver information solutions and analytics, mostly on a major economies, and levels of government subscription basis, which are important to our customers funding.
We have extended our position in long-term global growth markets through organic new launches supported by selective acquisitions.
We continue to dispose of businesses that no longer fit our strategy.
Intellectual Our products and services include and utilise We actively engage in developing and promoting the legal property rights intellectual property.
We rely on trademark, protection of intellectual property rights.
Our subscription copyright, patent and other intellectual contracts with customers contain provisions regarding the use of property laws to establish and protect intellectual property.
We are vigilant as to the use of our products ourproprietary rights in this intellectual and services and, as appropriate, take legal action to challenge property.
There is a risk that our proprietary illegal distribution sources.
rights could be challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented which may impact demand for and pricing of our products and services.
Data resources A number of our businesses rely extensively We seek as far as possible to have proprietary content and data.
upon content and data from external sources.
Where data is supplied to us by third parties, we aim to have Data is obtained from public records, contracts which provide mutual commercial benefit.
We also governmental authorities, customers and maintain an active dialogue with regulatory authorities on other information companies, including privacyand other data-related issues, and promote, with others, competitors.
The disruption or loss of data the responsible useof data.
sources, either because of changes in the law or because data suppliers decide not to supply them, could adversely affect our products andservices.
Paid Our Scientific, Technical & Medical STM We engage extensively with stakeholders in the STM community subscriptions primary research content, like that of most to better understand their needs and deliver value to them.
We are ofour competitors, is sold largely on a open to serve and are currently serving the STM community under paidsubscription basis.
There is continued a broad range of payment models that can sustainably provide debate in government, academic and researchers with the critical information tools that they need.
librarycommunities, which are the principal We focus on the integrity and quality of research through the customers for our STM content, regarding editorial and peer review process: we invest in efficient editorial towhat extent such content should be funded and distribution platforms and in innovation in platforms and tools instead through fees charged to authors or to make content and data more accessible and actionable: and we authors funders and or made freely available ensure vigilance on plagiarism and the long-term preservation of in some form after a period following research findings.
Some of these methods, if widely adopted, could adversely affect our revenue from paid subscriptions.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial review Principal risks 61 STRATEGIC RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Customer Our businesses are dependent on the We are focused on the needs and economics of our customers acceptance of continued acceptance by our customers andemploy user-centred design and customer analytics to provide innovative solutions that help them achieve better products ofourproducts and services and the value placed on them.
Failure to meet evolving outcomes and enhance productivity.
customer needs could impact demand for our products and consequently adversely affect our revenue.
Competition Our businesses operate in highly competitive We gain insights into our markets, evolving customers needs, markets, which continue to evolve in thepotential application of new technologies and business responseto technological innovations, models, and the actions of competitors.
These insights inform legislative and regulatory changes, the ourmarket strategies and operational priorities.
We continuously invest significant resources in our products and services, and the entrance of new competitors and other factors.
Failure to anticipate market trends infrastructure to support them.
could impact the competitiveness of our products and services and consequently adversely affect our revenue.
Acquisitions We regularly make small acquisitions to Acquisitions are made within the framework of our overall strengthen our portfolio.
If we are unable strategy, which emphasises organic development.
We have a togenerate the anticipated benefits such well-formulated process for reviewing and executing acquisitions asrevenue growth and or cost savings and for managing the post-acquisition integration.
This process associated with these acquisitions, this could isunderpinned with clear strategic, financial and ethical criteria.
adversely affect return on invested capital Weclosely monitor the integration and performance of acquisitions.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Technology Our businesses are dependent on electronic We have established procedures for the protection of our failure platforms and networks, primarily the technology assets.
These include the development of business internet, for delivery of products and continuity plans, including IT disaster recovery plans and back-up services.
These could be adversely affected if delivery systems, to reduce business disruption in the event of a our electronic delivery platforms or networks major technology failure.
experience a significant failure, interruption, or security breach.
Data security Our businesses maintain databases and We have established data privacy and security programs and information that are accessed online, evolve our programs in line with emerging threats.
We test and including personal information.
Breaches re-evaluate our procedures and controls with the aim of ensuring ofour data security or failure to comply that personal data is protected and that we comply with relevant withapplicable legislation or regulatory legislative, regulatory and contractual requirements.
orcontractual requirements could damage our reputation and expose us to risk of loss, litigation and increased regulation.
Supply chain Our organisational and operational We select our vendors with care and establish contractual service dependencies structures are dependent on outsourced levels that we closely monitor, including through key performance andoffshored functions.
Poor performance indicators and targeted supplier audits.
We have developed business continuity plans to reduce disruption in the event of or failure of third parties to whom we have outsourced activities could adversely affect amajor failure by a vendor.
our business performance, reputation and financial condition.
Talent The implementation and execution of our We have well established management development and talent strategies and business plans depend on review programmes.
We monitor capability needs and ourability to recruit, motivate and retain remuneration schemes are tailored to attract and motivate the high-quality people.
We compete globally best talent available at an appropriate level of cost.
We actively andacross business sectors for talented seek feedback from employees, which feeds into plans to enhanceemployee engagement and motivation.
management and skilled individuals, particularly those with technology and data analytics capabilities.
An inability to recruit, motivate or retain such people could adversely affect our business performance.
62 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 FINANCIAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Pensions We operate a number of pension schemes around the world, We have professional management of our pension including local versions of the defined benefit type in the UK schemes and we focus on maintaining appropriate and the US.
The assets and obligations associated with those asset allocation and plan designs.
We review our pension schemes are sensitive to changes in the market funding requirements on a regular basis with the values of assets and the market-related assumptions used assistance of independent actuaries and ensure to value scheme liabilities.
Adverse changes to, inter alia, that the funding plans are appropriate.
We seek to asset values, discount rates or inflation could increase manage pension liabilities by reviewing pension future pension costs and fundingrequirements.
benefits provided to staff as well as the structure of scheme arrangements.
Tax Our businesses operate globally and our profits are subject We maintain an open dialogue with tax authorities, to taxation in many differing jurisdictions and at differing and are vigilant in ensuring that we comply with taxrates.
In October 2015, the Organisation for Economic current tax legislation.
We have clear and Co-operation and Development OECD issued its reports consistent tax policies and tax matters are dealt onBase Erosion and Profit Shifting, which suggest a range with by a professional tax function, supported by ofnew approaches that national governments might adopt external advisers.
As outlined in the CFO report when taxing the activities of multinational enterprises.
As a onpage 59 we engage with tax authorities and result of the OECD project and other international initiatives, international organisations.
The principles we tax laws that currently apply to our businesses may be adopt in our approach to tax matters can be found amended by the relevant authorities or interpreted differently on our website at www.
by them, and this could adversely affect our reported results.
Treasury The RELX Group consolidated financial statements Our approach to funding and the management of areexpressed in sterling and are subject to movements in financial risks, including interest rate and foreign exchange rates on the translation of the financial information currency exposures, is described in note 19 to the of businesses whose operational currencies are other consolidated financial statements.
The US is our mostimportant market and, accordingly, significant fluctuations in the US dollar exchange rate could significantly affect our reported results.
We also earn revenues in a range of other currencies including the euro and the yen which could be affected by fluctuations in these exchange rates.
Macroeconomic, political andmarket conditions may also adversely affect the availability of short and long-term funding, volatility of interest rates, currency exchange rates and inflation.
Our borrowing costs and access to capital may be adversely affected if the credit ratings assigned to our debt are downgraded.
REPUTATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Ethics As a world-leading provider of professional information Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is provided solutions to the STM, risk & business analytics, legal and to every employee and is supported by training.
exhibitions markets, we are expected to adhere to high Itencompasses such topics as fair competition, standards of independence and ethical conduct.
Abreach anti-bribery and human rights and encourages open ofgenerally accepted ethical business standards could and principled behaviour.
We have well-established adversely affect our business performance, reputation processes for reporting and investigating instances andfinancial condition.
Our major suppliers are required to adopt our Supplier Code of Conduct.
Environmental Our businesses have an impact on the environment, We are committed to reducing these environmental principally through the use of energy and water, waste impacts by limiting resource use and efficiently generation and, in our supply chain, through paper use and employing sustainable materials and technologies.
Failure to manage our Werequire our major suppliers and contractors to environmental impact could adversely affect our reputation.
We seek to ensure that all ourbusinesses are compliant with relevant environmental regulation.
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 2 to 62, has been approved by the Board of RELX PLC in accordance with local UK requirements.
By order of the Board Registered Office Henry Udow 13 Strand Company Secretary London 24 February 2016 WC2N 5JR
