44 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Current trading levels and order book Revenue growth is unpredictable and Potential impact Mitigation orders from customers generally involve Global market conditions continue to highlight The Group is expanding and diversifying short lead-times with the outstanding risks to growth and demand, whichcan lead its product range in order to maintain order book at any time being around to fluctuating levels of revenue.
a world-leading position in its sales of onemonths worth of revenue value.
Investment in sales Whilst global investment in production and marketing resources continues systems and processes is expected to in order to support the diversified Related strategic priorities: expand, future growth is difficult to predict, product range.
especially with such a short-term order book.
2 4 5 6 8 This limited forward order visibilityleaves the The Group is applying its measurement annual revenue forecasts uncertain.
expertise to grow its healthcare business activities.
The Group regularly monitors the integration of acquisitions which expand its product range in new and complementary market sectors.
Research and development The development of new products Potential impact Mitigation and processes involves risk, such as Being at the leading edge of new technology Patent and intellectual property development timescales, meeting in metrology and healthcare, there are generation is core to new the required technical specification uncertainties whether new developments will product developments.
and the impact of alternative provide an economic return.
R&D programmes are regularly reviewed against milestones and forecast business plans and, when necessary, projects Related strategic priority: are cancelled.
2 Medium to long-term R&D strategies are reviewed at least annually by both the Board and Executive Board.
New products involve beta testing at customers to ensure they will meet the needs of the market.
Market developments are closely monitored.
Supply chain management Customer deliveries may be threatened Potential impact Mitigation by a failure in the supply chain.
Inability to meet customer deliveries could Production facilities are maintained with result in loss of revenue and profit.
fire and flood risk in mind.
Related strategic priority: Critical production processes are replicated at different locations 3 where practical.
Ability to flex manufacturing resource levels and shift patterns.
Regular vendor reviews are performed for critical part suppliers.
Note: the unprecedented demand for our Stock policies are reviewed by the Board products this year has tested a number of on a regular basis.
these mitigating controls and demonstrated Product quality is closely monitored.
the Groups ability to react to such demand.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 45 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Regulatory legislation for healthcare products The expansion of the Groups business Potential impact Mitigation within the healthcare markets involves Regulatory approval can be very expensive Specialist legal, regulatory and quality a significantly increased requirement to and time-consuming.
This area is also very assurance teams are employed to obtain regulatory approval prior to the complex and there is a risk that the correct support the healthcare business.
approvals are not obtained, which could Experience of healthcare regulatory result in loss of revenue and profit.
matters exists at board level.
Related strategic priorities: Healthcare operations in the UK and 2 5 6 France have ISO13485 certification for their quality management systems, with Ireland and other subsidiary healthcare operations falling under the UK quality management system.
Defined benefit pension schemes Investment returns and actuarial Potential impact Mitigation valuations of the defined benefit Volatility in investment returns and actuarial The investment strategy is managed pensionfund are subject to economic assumptions can significantly affect the by the pension fund trustees, who and social factors, which are outside the defined benefit pension fund deficit, operate in line with a statement of control of the Group.
impacting on future funding requirements.
Recovery plans are in place for the 2006, Related strategic priority: 2009 and 2012 actuarial valuations.
1 Treasury Fluctuating foreign exchange rates may Potential impact Mitigation affect the results of the Group.
With over 94% of revenue generated The Group enters into forward contracts outside of the UK, there is an exposure to hedge varying proportions of Related strategic priorities: to major currency fluctuations, mainly in forecast US Dollar, Euro and Japanese respect of the US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen revenue.
Such fluctuations could adversely 1 6 The Group uses currency borrowings to impact the Groups income statement and hedge the foreign currency denominated balance sheet.
assets held in the Groups balance sheet.
