Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk management and principal risks Risk management remains at the core of what we do Identification, mitigation and management and mitigate the impact.
According to the Effective risk management requires of risks is central to our strategy and our nature of the risk, Regus may elect to take awareness and engagement at all levels enterprise-wide risk management process or tolerate risk, treat risk with controls and of our organisation.
It is for this reason that allows us to understand the nature, scope mitigating actions, transfer risk to third risk management is incorporated into the and potential impact of our key business parties, or terminate risk by ceasing particular day-to-day management of our business, and strategic risks so we are able to manage activities or operations.
Regus has zero as well as being reflected in the Groups core these effectively.
tolerance of financial and ethics nonprocesses and controls.
The Board oversees compliance and ensures that Health, the risk management strategy and the Regus business could be impacted by Safety, Environmental & Security risks effectiveness of the Groups internal control various risks, leading to failure to achieve are managed to levels that are as low framework.
Risk management is at the heart strategic targets for growth or loss of as reasonably practicable.
of everything we do, particularly as we look to financial standing, cash flow, earnings, return grow across multiple markets around the world.
Not all these Whilst overall responsibility for the risk For this reason, we conduct risk assessments risks are wholly within the Groups control management process rests with the Board, throughout the year as part of our business and it may be affected by risks which are not it has delegated responsibility for assurance review process and all investment decisions.
yet manifested or reasonably foreseeable.
Executive These activities include: management is responsible for designing, Effective risk management is critical implementing and maintaining the necessary Monthly business reviews of all countries to achieving our strategic objectives systems of internal control.
and Group functions and protecting our personnel, assets and our reputation.
Regus therefore A list of key risks is prepared and the Individual reviews of every new location has a comprehensive approach to risk Board collectively assesses the severity investment and all acquisitions management, as set out in more detail of each risk, the likelihood of it occurring Annual planning process for all markets in the Corporate Governance Report.
and the strength of the controls in place.
and Group functions This approach allows the effect of any A critical part of the risk management Review of the status of our key risks mitigating procedures to be reflected in process is to assess the impact and in each Audit Committee meeting the final assessment.
It also recognises likelihood of risks occurring so that that risk cannot be totally eliminated at an appropriate mitigation plans can be acceptable cost and that there are some developed and implemented.
risks which, with its experience and after For all known risks facing the business, due consideration, the Board will choose Regus attempts to minimise the likelihood to accept.
Board Defines Regus risk appetite Monitors risk identification Assesses overall effectiveness and tolerance and assessment of risk management Audit Committee Reviews effectiveness of internal Monitors progress against internal and Approves the annual internal controls external audit recommendations and external audit plans Senior leadership team Accountable for the design and Accountable for the regular Contributes to the identification implementation of risk management review and appraisal of key risks and assessment of key risks processes and controls General management Responsible for compliance and ensuring that staff are adequately trained Business assurance function Assists management and the Board in conducting Reviews risk profiles risk studies Tests compliance with internal controls Advises and guides on policies and internal control framework www.
com 21 Risk management and principal risks continued Principal risks Risk Mitigation Progress in 2015 Strategic Lease obligations The single This risk is mitigated in a number of ways: During 2015, the number of flexible greatest financial risk to Regus leases as a percentage of the total 1 94% of our leases are flexible, meaning that they are either is represented by the financial increased from 92% to 94%.
At the terminable at our option within six months and or located commitments deriving from the end of 2015, we were operating 2,768 in or assignable to a standalone legal entity, which is not fully portfolio of leases held across locations in 977 towns and cities across cross-guaranteed.
In this way, individual centres are sustained the Group.
by their own profitability and cash flow.
During the most Whilst Regus has demonstrated recent downturn we were able to negotiate revised terms consistently that it has a with our partners to reflect downward movements in market fundamentally profitable rates to help recovery.
business model which works 2 Over a quarter of our leases with landlords are variable in in all geographies, the profitability of nature, which means that payments to landlords vary with centres is impacted by movements the performance of the relevant centre.
In this way the risk in market rents, which, in turn, to profitability and cash flow of that centre from fluctuations impact the price at which Regus in market rates is softened by the consequent adjustment to can sell to its customers.
In a number of cases, we take no risk at all since The fact that the outstanding the lease is signed by a partner who also undertakes all of the lease terms with our landlords capital investment and pays us a fixed percentage of revenues are, on average, significantly longer as well as a share of centre profit.
than the outstanding terms on 3 The sheer number of leases and geographic diversity our contracts with our customers of our business reduces the overall risk to our business creates a potential mismatch if as the phasing of the business cycle and the performance rentals fall significantly, which can of the commercial property market often varies from country impact profitability and cash flows.
to country and region to region.
4 Each year a significant number of leases in our portfolio reach a natural break point.
Economic downturn An economic The Group has taken a number of actions to mitigate this risk: We increased the number of centres downturn could adversely affect the operating on performance-related 1 More than a quarter of our leases are performance-related Groups operating revenues, thereby leases by 20%.
to a greater or lesser extent and our rental payments, if any, reducing operating performance or, vary with revenues earned by the centre.
We also increased the scale of our in an extreme downturn, resulting in network by 22% and added 145 new 2 Lease contracts include break clauses when leases can operating losses.
Our monthly business be terminated at our behest.
The Group also looks to stagger performance reviews provide early leases in locations where we have multiple centres so that warning of any impact on our business we can manage our overall inventory in those locations.
performance and allow management 3 We review our customer base to assess exposure to react with speed.
More generally, to a particular customer or industry group.
investment in our management 4 The increasing geographic spread of the Groups network team has also led to improved, increases the depth and breadth of our business and provides more responsive decision-making better protection from an economic downturn in a single at a country and area level.
Shifting demand and technology Regus continually invests in R&D to develop new products The Group increased spend on R&D trends Technology developments and services to increase its competitive advantage, protect by 18% in 2015. are driving demand for flexible current revenues and unlock potential new sources of revenue.
Failure to recognise these could mean Regus product offering is sub-optimal.
Financial Funding The Group relies on The Group constantly monitors its cash flow and financial We extended and amended our 320m external funding to support a net headroom development and maintains a 12-month rolling Revolving Credit Facility, which is now debt position of 190.6m at the forecast and a three-year strategic outlook.
The Group also committed until 2020. end of 2015.
The loss of these monitors the relevant financial ratios against the covenants Together with the Groups 210m of facilities would cause a liquidity in its facilities to ensure the risk of breach is being managed.
debt securities, consisting of 165m of issue for the Group.
The Group also stresses these forecasts with downside three-year notes and 45m of five-year scenario planning to assess risk and determine potential notes, this provides 474m of available action plans.
The Board intends to maintain a prudent approach to the Regus had a net debt : EBITDA ratio at Groups capital structure by holding the net debt : Group 31 December 2015 of 0.66 times.
There EBITDA leverage ratio below c. 1.5 times.
is significant headroom on each of the covenant ratios.
Part of the annual planning process is a debt strategy and action plan to ensure that the Group will have sufficient Our Afor long-term debt and A1 funding in place to achieve its strategic objectives.
for short-term debt ratings, accorded by an independent credit rating agency, The Group also constantly reviews and manages makes additional sources of financing the maturity profile of its external funding.
22 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Mitigation Progress in 2015 Financial Exchange rates The principal 1 Given that transactions generally take place in the Overall in 2015 the movement exposures of the Group are to functional currency of Group companies, the Groups in exchange rates decreased reported the US dollar and the euro with exposure to transactional foreign exchange risk is limited.
revenue and gross profit by 16.4m and approximately 33.9% of the 1.0m respectively, however operating 2 Where possible, the Group attempts to create natural Groups revenues being profit increased by 1.9m compared to hedges against currency exposures through matching income attributable to the US dollar last year.
and expenses, and assets and liabilities, in the same currency.
During 2015 the Group had cross- 3 The Group, where deemed appropriate, uses currency Any depreciation or appreciation currency swaps on 165m of debt swaps to maintain the currency profile of its external debt.
of sterling would have an adverse securities to retain the currency profile or beneficial impact to the Groups of its external debt following the issue reported financial performance of a 210m loan note which was used and position respectively.
The to repay sterling debt on the Groups Group does not generally hedge Revolving Credit Facility.
the translation exchange risk of its business results.
Rather, it assumes that shareholders will take whatever steps they deem necessary based on their varied appetites for exchange risk and differing base currency investment positions.
Interest rates Operating in a The Group constantly monitors its interest rate exposure During 2015 the Group maintained net debt position, an increase as part of its monthly treasury review.
interest rate swaps to convert a in interest rates would increase substantial proportion of its debt As part of the Groups balance sheet management it utilises finance costs.
from floating to fixed rates.
Operational Cyber security Regus has This risk is mitigated as follows: All core production applications have significant experience in operating been made PCI Payment Card Industry 1 The Group maintains an active information security and maintaining an enterprise compliant and the Group no longer program under the direction of the Group CIO with oversight infrastructure and application stores credit card details in any of by the Board suite.
The Group has ensured that its systems.
2 Both internal and external audits are conducted periodically information security is part Internal and external audits have been to review risks and ensure appropriate measures are in place of its ongoing business practice.
completed and an ongoing monitoring The trend towards an integrated 3 The Group ensures compliance with all major legislation and improvement programme is in place.
digital economy and use of external and directives cloud services combined with the 4 The Group maintains a mandatory training programme to rise in malicious attacks and promote staff awareness of information security and increasing consequential costs compliance best practice warrants particular attention 5 Data, systems and access permissions are strictly to cyber security risks.
segregated to reduce exposure to risk Loss of critical systems The Regus manages this risk through: We undertake regular testing Groups systems and applications of business continuity procedures 1 Business continuity plans.
are housed in a central data centre.
to ensure that they are adequate 2 A detailed service agreement with our external data centre Should the data centre be and appropriate.
provider which incorporates appropriate back-up procedures impacted as a result of and controls.
circumstances outside the Groups control there could be an adverse 3 Ensuring appropriate business interruption insurance impact on the Groups operations is in place.
and therefore its financial results.
com 23 Risk management continued Risk Mitigation Progress in 2015 Operational Fraud Landlord and supplier Regus manages this risk through: and procurement related fraud 1 A rigorous investment approval process to review the proposed deal structure against local market conditions and alternatives.
2 Centralised procurement contracts with suppliers for key services and products.
3 Standardised processes to manage and monitor spend.
4 A strong governance framework and policies on gifts and hospitality, business conduct and bribery and corruption.
5 Regular reviews to monitor effectiveness of controls.
Growth Ensuring demand is there to Regus mitigates this risk as follows: On aggregate, our new centres continue support our growth Regus has to perform in line with management 1 Each investment or acquisition proposal is reviewed undertaken significant growth expectations and are delivering and approved by the Investment Committee.
to develop local and national attractive returns.
2 The monthly business review process monitors new networks.
Adding capacity carries centre development against the investment case to the risk of creating overcapacity.
ensure that the anticipated returns are being generated.
Failure to fill new centres would create a negative impact on 3 As part of the annual planning process, a growth plan is the Groups profitability and agreed for each country which clearly sets out the annual cash generation.
Human Resources Ability to recruit at the right Mitigating actions include: Our capability to hire the best talent level Our ability to increase continued to increase in 2015.
Our 1 Succession planning discussions are an integral part our management capacity and direct recruit approach saved over 2m of our business planning and review process.
capabilities through the hiring of of search fees as our talent knowledge 2 Part of the annual planning process is the Human Resources experienced professionals not only around the world deepens and expands.
Plan, and performance against this Plan is reviewed through supports our ability to execute our This has allowed us to further plan for the year.
growth strategy, but also enables succession in all markets.
us to improve succession planning 3 Our global performance management system and quarterly Our diversity continues to flourish with throughout the Group.
staff survey allow us to keep close to our employees and our workforce split fairly evenly male maintain a two-way dialogue throughout the year.
female, which is an important factor 4 Regular external and internal evaluation of the performance in hiring talent in a growth business.
Training and employee One of the key items in the Human Resources Plan is We trained our employees, many engagement As a servicethe Global Induction & Training Plan, which sets out the through the Regus Online Learning based business the strength key objectives for the forthcoming year.
Performance Academy, including employees from and capabilities of our increasingly against these objectives is reviewed through the year.
new centre acquisitions and new talent geographically diverse team to Regus.
Our employee survey also provides insight into employee are critical to achieving our issues, which is then used to improve the Plan.
In 2015 there were over 297,000 strategic objectives.
training modules completed on-line and face-to-face.
Our online learning curriculum was a winner of the Most Dramatic Business Impact Award at the Cornerstone Client Excellence Awards 2015 for the impact that this training had on sales performance.
This is just one example of our relevant and easy-to-access development initiatives for front-line employees.
24 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
