24 SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The table below sets out what we believe to RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES be the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
The table does not cover all of the risks that the Group may face.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management or deemed to be less material at the date of this report may also have an adverse effect on the Group.
Risk and description Potential impact and key mitigations 2015 2015 Assessment Movement Competitive environment trends Potential impact Failing to develop Rexams strength with Adverse business performance, price and volume pressure, our customers and unable to improve adverse terms and margin erosion.
our commercial capabilities to deliver Key mitigations our value propositions to customers and We continue to focus on strengthening relationships and react according to their changing needs.
HIGH building partnerships with our customers, with focus on value Stable adding service and innovation, as well as investing in our Strategic priorities: 1, 2, 3, 4 production capacity and our capabilities.
Other mitigations are customer and competitor strategy review and analysis, improved pricing process and continued emphasis on cost reduction and efficiency.
Continued economic slowdown Potential impact Unable to respond swiftly and manage Adverse business performance, price and volume pressure, the impact of an economic slowdown and and eroded customer and consumer confidence.
sluggish recovery in Rexams key markets.
Key mitigations Rexam continues to manage capital investment closely and is Strategic priorities: 1, 2, 3 focused on maximising utilisation of assets to ensure we align volume demand from our customers and our capacity.
HIGH Stable We use scenario planning and modelling based on potential upside and downside risk analysis within our budgeting and forecasting processes to identify mitigating actions which would be implemented should this risk increase further.
We continue to focus on cost improvement measures through lean initiatives, efficiency savings, supply chain management and innovation see page 16 and 18.
Financial impact from Potential impact country based instability Currency fluctuations and lack of access to currency, trade Failure to manage the risk and exposure sanctions affecting our business, political instability, social unrest, of our business operations in some war and terrorism, and security threat to our people and assets.
emerging markets with political, Key mitigations socioeconomic and legal uncertainties.
Emerging market risks are assessed in detail by management when considering investment opportunities, in due diligence Strategic priorities: 2, 4 reviews prior to investment and in continuing business reviews HIGH Increased and risk assessments.
We leverage on the ground market and country intelligence from local management, with the support from external advisors.
Additionally, business continuity plans are in place at individual plant, sector and group level, and these plans are reviewed, benchmarked and tested during the year.
Preparedness plans have been built for operations in countries facing rapidly changing environments.
Principal risk which has been reflected in the assessment for prospects and viability.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 25 Risk and description Potential impact and key mitigations 2015 2015 Assessment Movement Cyber attack and data security Potential impact Disruption of Rexams IT systems or Business interruption, financial losses, loss of confidential compromise of sensitive data driven data, negative reputational impact and breach of regulations.
by malicious cyber attack or Key mitigations technology failure.
Rexams IT security procedures and processes including mobile devices and cloud services are in place, covering Strategic priorities: 4 areas around antivirus software, backups, access and password control.
Disaster recovery plans are in place HIGH Increased and tested twice a year along with system penetration and vulnerability tests.
In the case of a disaster or technology failure, clear responsibilities have been set between IT and business units to ensure operations can continue during the down time.
During the year, the transformation of the global data centre was completed according to plan which enables Rexam to manage IT risks and resources more effectively.
Potential impact Aluminium and other input cost increases Margin erosion, loss of volumes, loss of competitive advantage against competitors or other beverage packaging products.
Failure to manage our most significant raw material aluminium cost, followed Key mitigations by metal premiums, other raw materials, Majority of our aluminium ingot costs are charged to our energy and fuel costs.
These costs are customers on a pass through or back to back hedged pass driven by market volatility, regulatory through basis.
For the remaining aluminium, hedging strategy changes and requirements, and non and mechanisms are in place to manage the aluminium cost MEDIUM Reduced controllable costs.
The conversion cost from ingot to aluminium coil is covered by long term supply contracts.
Strategic priorities: 1, 3 During the year, there has been significant decline in aluminium premiums due to weakness in global aluminium price, along with changes in London Metal Exchange LME rules to reduce metal queues from warehouses and reduce scope for manipulation and extreme volatility.
Business interruption Potential impact Every business faces the potential risk of Operational disruption adversely affecting our ability to a major disruption to internal facilities meet customer requirements, potential additional contractual or external supply chain which could liabilities and a consequential impact on financial performance.
be caused by natural disaster, loss or Key mitigations scarcity of supply, industrial disputes, There are established business continuity management supplier failure, technology failure, protocols and procedures across the Group, and clarity on unplanned outages and physical damage responsibilities between Group functions and business units, as a result of fire or other such event.
in the event of severe business interruption.
Ongoing maintenance programmes are also in place at Strategic priorities: 1, 3, 5 HIGH Stable manufacturing plants and facilities.
Strong relationships with suppliers enable flexible sourcing arrangements for key supplies and we ensure appropriate levels of inventory are maintained.
Additionally, mechanisms are in place to monitor financial and operational viability of our key suppliers.
During the year, we have also extended our business continuity reviews to certain key suppliers to ensure effective management of potential supply disruptions.
Insurance programmes to protect losses associated with business interruption are also in place.
26 SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk and description Potential impact and key mitigations 2015 2015 Assessment Movement Tax risks Potential impact In an increasingly complex international Additional tax liabilities, fines and penalties, tax environment, some uncertainties are and reputational impact.
inevitable in estimating our tax liabilities.
Key mitigations We seek to plan and manage our tax affairs efficiently, Strategic priorities: 4 MEDIUM Stable in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Tax planning is based around the needs of our operating businesses.
With dedicated internal tax experts and the use of external tax advisors where required, we exercise our judgement in assessing the required level of provision for tax risk and allocate resources appropriately to protect our position.
Changes in consumer tastes, Potential impact nutritional preferences, health Adverse business performance, loss of market share and environment related concerns or business and being substituted by other forms of The risk of changing consumer trends beverage packaging products.
resulting in a shift in demand away from Key mitigations beverage cans or from our customers We continue to monitor and focus on market and consumer MEDIUM products for which Rexam manufactures Stable trends as well as political developments through internal packaging.
Drivers of this risk can include and external business intelligence services and through lifestyle and taste change, nutrition our involvement in national and international packaging and health considerations or and environmental associations in the jurisdictions in which environmental concerns.
We also focus on business opportunities in new beverage categories see page 6.
Strategic priorities: 1, 4 Environmental, fire, Potential impact health and safety Health and safety incident, financial exposure, The risk of a significant environmental business disruption and reputational damage.
contamination, fire or health and safety Key mitigations issue at one of our locations.
We continue to carry out regular environment, health and safety EHS audits in cooperation with internal and external Strategic priorities: 5 specialists to drive best practice.
The audit approach provides the basis for delivering a more sustainable and robust MEDIUM Stable improvement of EHS management systems and performance at all sites and strive for continuous improvement in our key health and safety KPI measures.
During the year, we continued with our fire safety and property protection audits supported and performed by an independent provider, and have invested in fire safety and property protection.
We continue to deliver the actions included in our three year world class safety roadmap.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 27 Risk and description Potential impact and key mitigations 2015 2015 Assessment Movement Changes in packaging legislation Potential impact and regulatory environment Changes in packaging legislation and regulation affecting The Group is subject to applicable laws producer responsibility for recycling, recycled content, carbon and regulations in the global jurisdictions footprint and landfill taxation represent an increasing trend risk.
Packaging will Key mitigations continue to be a focus for government Rexam continually monitors developments in laws and legislators working within the regulations in the jurisdictions that may affect our business.
This is performed through established and effective MEDIUM Stable membership of relevant trade associations, by direct Strategic priorities: 4 collaboration with governmental and non governmental organisations and through internal and external resources.
Legislative risk registers are maintained by the responsible persons using appropriate risk monitoring tools.
Rexam also focuses on investment in new innovation and technology programmes to ensure continuous enhancements in our packaging products and manufacturing processes.
Pension deficit Potential impact Risk relates to cash contributions, Adverse financial impact to the Group as a result of charges to the income statement a pension deficit.
Key mitigations Rexams retirement benefit risk management is overseen by Strategic priorities: 5 the Retirement Benefits Committee RBC which is normally chaired by the finance director.
The RBC reviews all proposed MEDIUM Stable new undertakings and improvements to retirement benefits.
Managing pension deficit volatility on the balance sheet and general fide risking of funded plans, which includes equity, interest rate and inflation risks, is the responsibility of pension plan fiduciaries in consultation with the RBC.
Cash contributions are paid to the respective plans to ensure that there are adequate assets to meet the plans obligations.
Fraud, bribery and Potential impact internal control failure Financial loss, reputational damage and breach of laws.
The risk of an internal control failure Key mitigations such as a Rexam employee committing The Rexam Code of Conduct provides a framework for all fraud or bribery due to lack of integrity of our policies at Group, sector and individual businesses.
A Group control framework, setting out key financial controls MEDIUM to be applied across the Group, is in place to ensure Stable Strategic priorities: 5 consistency and further enhance the control environment.
Rexams Raise Your Concern whistle blowing hotline also allows employees to raise any concerns regarding behaviour that does not conform to Rexam policies.
During 2015, online compliance refresher training was rolled out to all relevant personnel.
28 SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk and description Potential impact and key mitigations 2015 2015 Assessment Movement Funding and other financial risks Potential impact Risks related to the cost and availability Financial exposure due to interest rates, foreign currencies of funds to meet our business needs, and commodities prices volatility, and lack of funding to movements in interest rates, foreign meet our requirements.
currency exchange rates as well as Key mitigations commodity prices.
Rexams financial risk management is based upon sound economic objectives and good corporate practice.
Rexam Strategic priorities: 2, 3 negotiates funding requirements in a timely manner ensuring MEDIUM Stable appropriate headroom is secured to mitigate the risk of lack of availability.
Derivative and other financial instruments are used to manage exposures under conditions agreed by the board.
Further details of our financial risks and the way in which we mitigate them are set out in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Counterparty default Potential impact Risk of counterparty failure including, Financial losses, service and supply disruptions.
for example, bank, insurer, customer Key mitigations or supplier.
The continued challenging A range of financial counterparties are used and strict limits, macroeconomic environment in certain determined by qualitative and quantitative measures, on our regions or countries in which Rexam exposure are applied to each of them.
The risk of insurer MEDIUM Stable operates requires focus in this area.
failure is monitored by our insurance broker and reported to Rexam immediately if an issue arises.
Customer credit Strategic priorities: 5 limits are imposed and their credit risk, as well as suppliers, is reviewed and monitored.
In addition, there are procedures across the Group to manage working capital tightly, including customers overdue debts reporting.
Insufficient talent and Potential impact knowledge capital Performance declines or lack of growth due to lack of talent Failing to identify, attract, develop bench strength.
and retain talents to satisfy current Key mitigations LOW Stable and future needs of the business.
As part of our continued strategic focus on building a winning organisation, we continue to invest in active talent Strategic priorities: 5 management, succession planning and the development needs of our employees.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 29 Risk and description Potential impact and key mitigations 2015 2015 Assessment Movement An additional risk has been added in light of the Ball offer for Rexam.
Rexam PLC takeover Potential impact The risks associated with Rexam PLC Negotiations with customers and suppliers may prove being taken over by another organisation.
These risks may have a significant impact Employee turnover may lead to loss of valuable experience, on key relationships with customers, expertise and business networks.
It could also lead to suppliers, employees and other increased workload and pressure for existing workforce.
stakeholders due to the lack of certainty regarding completion of the transaction The Ball offer is still subject to regulatory and Rexam and how it will be implemented.
As such there is still a risk that the transaction proposed by the Ball offer may not proceed.
In the event that the Ball offer does not complete, Rexam would continue with business as usual.
Key mitigations All major customers and suppliers have existing contracts in place with regular senior management interactions to ensure business as usual.
Appropriate retention packages for employees have been put in place and senior management communicate regular updates regarding the Ball offer to maintain employee engagement and retention.
Coordinated and consistent communications are shared with all stakeholders.
