48 ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
These risks The Group has well established risk management and internal control are described on pages 24 to 29 in the risk management section of this systems.
While all elements of risk cannot be eliminated, the processes annual report, and includes details of how they are being managed and systems aim to identify, assess, prioritise and, where possible, or mitigated.
Although no system can provide absolute There is an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, mitigating, assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups systems reporting and monitoring the risks faced by the Group captured are designed to provide the board with reasonable assurance that within a formal ERM framework.
Meetings are held with businesses assets are safeguarded, transactions are properly authorised and and functional managers who present their risk registers, enabling recorded and that material errors and irregularities are either discussion of the risks identified, the management of those risks and prevented or detected within a timely period.
the mitigation measures as well as the effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
The process ensures that risks are not just the product The enterprise risk management ERM function is led by the director responsible for ERM together with the chief executive, finance director, of a bottom up approach but are also examined from a top down perspective and closely aligned with the Groups strategy.
the director internal audit and other senior management representatives, and has brought an increased focus and emphasis on global risk The ERM function chairs the risk leadership team with representatives management, providing leadership and co-ordination across the from internal audit and senior management from each of the sectors.
Groups business and operational risk activities.
Operational risk which The team meets regularly to focus on key Group risk themes and to includes health and safety, environment, fire and property protection, refine the ERM framework.
security, business continuity and crisis management is the responsibility The framework which the board has established to provide effective of senior functional management.
internal control for both the Group and its associates and joint ventures The directors confirm that the board have carried out a robust assessment is supported by the key areas set out in the table below.
of the principal risks facing the Group including those that would threaten THE INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK Responsibility Activity in 2015 Financial The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting Regular reviews took place to ensure businesses were reporting financial results to the board.
An annual budget and performing in line with budget and strategy.
The chief strategic review are prepared for each business and are executive and the finance director, or in the finance directors consolidated for review by the board before being formally absence, a senior member of the Group finance team, adopted.
During the year, monthly management accounts, met regularly with operational management to ensure including cash flow and capital expenditure reporting, are businesses were performing as expected and reporting in prepared with a comparison against budget and prior accordance with the Groups standards.
Forecasts are revised in light of this comparison meetings the chief executive and the finance director, or and are also reviewed by the board.
in the finance directors absence, a senior member of the Group finance team, reported back to the board.
Delegated There are clearly defined lines of responsibility and levels The Group authority levels and related financial limits, authority of authority in operation throughout the Group, with which include information on those matters that are specific matters reserved to the board.
Businesses are specifically reserved for the boards consideration, decentralised with operating autonomy and financial are regularly reviewed and updated.
responsibility delegated to corporate and local management to the extent that they have approval to operate within defined levels of authority and risk.
Procedures There are formal written Group financial procedures Procedures and controls are regularly updated to ensure and controls and controls in operation, including specific procedures for that they are effective and in line with best practice.
capital investment and the approval of significant contracts.
During 2015 the SAP software which manages segregation Corporate and local management are required to complete of duties controls was upgraded.
biannual representation letters formally confirming that their business complies with the Groups financial reporting The online legal compliance training system developed policies and other Group policies and procedures.
to ensure employees familiarity and compliance with the Groups Code of Conduct also includes specific training The Group control framework has been fully implemented on Financial Integrity, combating bribery in business and to ensure that controls are updated consistently and in line competition and antitrust law, and was completed by all with best practice.
appropriate employees during the year, following a refresh of the training content.
