Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report | Risk management Approach to risk management Key areas of focus The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risk is We continue to drive improvements to our risk management effectively managed across the Group.
The primary method process and the quality of risk information generated, whilst at by which risks are monitored and managed is through the the same time maintaining a simple and practical approach.
The subject of risk This year the risk management framework has been reviewed is included on each monthly agenda and any signi cant new by Rightmove Assurance, our outsourced internal audit risks or change in status to existing signi cant risks is function, with a presentation to the Audit Committee on key discussed and actions taken as appropriate.
findings including recommendations to enhance the risk On a bi-annual basis, risk is reviewed across each management approach beyond the speci c requirements business area.
This review includes a detailed assessment of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and of identi ed risks, the likelihood of each risk occurring and to implement principal risk dashboards.
the potential impact, together with controls and mitigating procedures in place.
This information is combined to form a consolidated risk register which is reported to the Executive Committee for review and challenge, ahead of final review and approval by the Board.
A nominated Director has responsibility for each risk.
The Board reviewed the risk register at the February 2015 and September 2015 Board meetings.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2. of the Code, the directors numbers, ARPA growth and other ancillary revenue streams have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year and considers the Groups pro tability, cash ows and period, taking into account the Groups current position and dividend cover over the period.
the potential impact of the principal risks and uncertainties set The plan is subject to robust downside sensitivity analysis out on pages 17 to 18.
Based upon the robust assessment of which involves exing a number of the main assumptions the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would underlying the plan.
Where appropriate, analysis is carried out threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or to evaluate the potential financial impact over the period of the liquidity, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Groups principal risks actually occurring.
Furthermore our Group and the Company will be able to continue in operation business model is structured so that the Group is not overly and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year reliant on a small customer base with no single customer period to 31 December 2018. constituting more than 3% of Group sales.
The directors have determined that a three year period to Also given our signi cant free cash ow, our ability to adjust 31 December 2018 constitutes an appropriate period over our discretionary share buyback programme further provides which to provide its viability statement, being the period long-term comfort around viability in the face of adverse considered under the Groups current three-year strategic economic or competitive conditions.
The three-year plan is reviewed by the directors at least Whilst this review does not consider all the risks that the annually and is developed on a segment by segment basis Group may face, the directors consider that this stress-testing using a bottom up model.
The three-year plan makes certain based assessment of the Groups prospects is reasonable in assumptions about Agency and New Homes customer the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved.
