Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties in this section have been The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in connection categorised into Financial risks Market, Financial and Strategic : with any forward-looking statements in this Annual report and the Operational risks HSEC, Resources, Operations, Projects and People : cautionary statement on the inside front cover.
and Compliance risks Stakeholder, Governance.
Financial risks Inherent risk and uncertainty 2015 Potential impact on viability, Potential upside impact trend HSEC and reputation opportunities Market risks: Rio Tinto operates in global markets and accepts the impact of exchange rate movements and market-driven prices for our commodities, seeking premiums where possible.
Commodity prices, driven by demand and A rise in commodity prices, or favourable Business model supply for the Groups products, vary exchange rate movement, allows the Group to outside of expectations over time.
pursue strategic capital expansions and or Future performance Exchange rate variations and geopolitical increase returns to shareholders.
Solvency issues may offset or exacerbate this risk.
Liquidity External risk China's development pathway could Strong growth, positive policy decisions and Business model impact demand for the Group's products reforms drive demand for commodities, outside of expectations.
Future performance resulting in rising prices which enable capital expansion and increased shareholder returns in External risk the short to medium term.
Financial risks: Rio Tinto maintains a strong blance sheet and liquidity position to preserve financial flexibility through the cycle.
External events and internal discipline may Favourable market conditions and strong Future performance impact Group liquidity.
internal discipline could increase Group liquidity and or balance sheet strength and Solvency External risk allow it to pursue investment opportunities Liquidity Internal risk and enhance returns to shareholders.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Potential downside impact Mitigating actions include: threats Value drivers World-class Quality Balance sheet Free cash portfolio growth strength flow generation Falling commodity prices, or adverse exchange rate Pursue low cost production, allowing profitable supply throughout the commodity movements, reduce cash flow, limiting profitability price cycle.
These may trigger Maintain a diverse portfolio of commodities across a number of geographies.
impairments and or impact rating agency metrics.
Maintain global portfolio of customers and contracts with key customers.
Extended subdued prices may reflect a longer-term Maintain a strong balance sheet.
fall in demand for the Group's products, and Monitor multiple leading indicators and undertake detailed industry analysis to consequent reduced revenue streams may limit develop more accurate assumptions in our commodity price and exchange rate investment opportunities.
forecasting used for capital allocation and planning process.
An economic slowdown in China, and or a material Comply with the Groups Treasury policy and standard, which outlines the fundamental change in policy, results in a slowdown in demand principles that govern the Groups financial risk management practices.
Value drivers World-class Quality Operating and Balance sheet Capital allocation Free cash portfolio growth commercial excellence strength discipline flow generation The Groups ability to raise sufficient funds for Comply with the Groups Treasury policy and standard, which outlines the fundamental planned expenditure, such as capital growth and principles that govern the Groups financial risk management practices.
or mergers and acquisitions, as well as the ability Target a net gearing ratio of 20 to 30 per cent and other financial metrics to weather a major economic downturn could be commensurate with a strong investment-grade credit rating.
compromised by a weak balance sheet and or Manage the liquidity and financing structure of the Group using forecasts and inadequate access to liquidity.
sensitivity analysis tools to actively monitor, determine and enable access to the appropriate level, sources and types of financing required.
Subject funds invested by the Group to credit limits and maturity profiles based on board-approved frameworks, to promote diversification and maintain appropriate liquidity.
Embed Finance teams within the business support management and develop accurate financial reporting and tracking of our business performance.
Report financial performance monthly to senior management and the board.
Seek board approval of the financial strategy, long-term planning and case flow forecasting.
com 17 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Financial risks continued Inherent risk and uncertainty 2015 Potential impact on viability, Potential upside impact trend HSEC and reputation opportunities Strategic risks: Rio Tinto enforces disciplined capital allocation to the best returning opportunities organic and inorganic growth projects or returns to shareholders.
Rio Tintos ability to secure planned value Proceeds realised from divested assets are Business model by successfully executing divestments and greater than planned, allowing more capital to Future performance acquisitions may vary.
be redeployed into higher returning or more productive uses.
The Group is successful in Solvency Internal risk acquiring business that provide case flow and or future growth optionality, above that Liquidity anticipated at the time of acquisition.
Group reputation The Groups ability to develop new projects An ability to develop projects on time and Future performance successfully may vary.
within budget enhances social licence to operate and investor confidence.
Group reputation Internal risk Solvency HSEC Operational risks Inherent risk and uncertainty 2015 Potential impact on viability, Potential upside impact trend HSEC and reputation opportunities HSEC risks: Rio Tintos operations are inherently dangerous.
We lead responsibly to preserve our social licence to operate and ensure our employees and contractors go home safe and healthy.
Our operations and projects are inherently Delivering leading health, safety, Group reputation hazardous with the potential to cause environment and communities illness or injury, damage to the HSEC performance is essential to our business environment, disruption to a community or success.
Meeting our commitments in a threat to personal security.
these areas contributes to sustainable development and underpins our continued Internal risk access to resources, capital and a diverse workforce to sustain the organisation.
Good performance in legacy management of closed sites and closure can enhance our reputation and enable us to maintain access to land, resources, people and capital, so we can continue to establish new projects with the support of local communities.
Resources risks: Rio Tinto invests materially to accurately identify new deposits and develop orebody knowledge, underpinning our operations and projects.
The success of the Groups exploration The discovery of a new orebody can Business model activity may vary.
In addition, estimates of significantly improve future growth options.
Future performance ore reserves are based on uncertain assumptions that, if changed, could result The volume of ore is based on the available Group reputation in the need to restate ore reserves.
geological and technical information which is by its nature, incomplete.
As new information External risk comes to light the economic viability of some Internal risk ore reserves can change and thus the reserves can be restated upwards.
As a result, projects may be more successful and of longer duration than initially anticipated.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Potential downside impact Mitigating actions include: threats Value drivers World-class Quality Operating and Balance sheet Capital allocation Free cash portfolio growth commercial excellence strength discipline flow generation Divestment and acquisition activity incurs Complete detailed, independent due diligence on all material potential divestments transaction costs that cannot be recouped, or and acquisitions, including technical review, commercial review and functional sign result in value destruction by realising less than offs, before consideration by the Investment Committee and board where appropriate.
planned value for divestments or paying more than Resource Business Development team appropriately, supported by external fair value for acquisitions.
This could result in specialists as required.
unforeseen pressure on the Groups cash position Involve business unit leaders early in process to recognise integration planning and or reduce the Groups ability to expand operations.
synergies, or separation threats and opportunities.
The Group may also be liable for the past acts, Undertake post-investment reviews on divestments and acquisitions, to identify key omissions or liabilities of assets it has acquired learnings to embed into future initiatives.
that were unforeseen or greater than anticipated Consistently approach development of large-scale capital projects, through a at the time of acquisition.
The Group may also face specialised projects division.
liabilities for divested entities if the buyer fails to Follow rigorous project approval and stage-gating process, including monitoring and honour commitments or the Group agrees to retain status evaluation, as articulated in Project evaluation standard and guidance.
A delay or overrun in the project schedule could negatively impact the Groups profitability, cash flows, asset carrying values, growth aspirations and relationships with key stakeholders.
Potential downside impact Mitigating actions include: threats Value drivers Operating and commercial excellence Failure to manage our health, safety, environment Continue focus on HSEC as a core priority at all operations, and projects, overseen or community risks, could result in a catastrophic by the Sustainability Committee.
event or other long-term damage which could in Clearly define and ensure compliance with Group HSEC strategy, policy and turn harm the Groups social licence to operate.
Regularly review and audit HSEC processes and controls to promote and improve Recognised hazards include, among others, effectiveness.
underground operations, aviation, pit slope Monitor HSEC performance measurement metrics at the Group level monthly.
instability, tailings facilities, vector-borne and Report, investigate and share learnings from HSEC incidents.
pandemic disease, chemicals, gases, vehicles and Build safety targets into personal performance metrics to incentivise safe behaviour machinery, extreme natural environments, and effective risk management see Remuneration Implementation Report.
endangered flora or fauna, areas of cultural heritage significance, water supply stress and Develop mutually beneficial partnerships with local communities and the climate change.
establishment of appropriate social performance targets.
Report annually on performance on greenhouse gas emissions, water, land use and rehabilitation, among others.
Focus on fatality elimination through implementation of a programme to verify safety risk controls.
Value drivers World-class Quality Capital allocation Free cash portfolio growth discipline flow generation A failure to discover new orebodies could Comply with the Groups resources and reserves standard.
Recruit and retain skilled and experienced personnel.
Provide stable funding for exploration activities.
The risk that new information comes to light or Prioritise the exploration portfolio continuously.
operating conditions change means that the Utilise new technologies where appropriate.
economic viability of some ore reserves can Develop and leverage third-party partnerships.
change and thus the reserves need to be restated downwards.
As a result, projects may be less successful and of shorter duration than initially anticipated, and or the asset value may be impaired.
com 19 Principal risks and uncertainties continued 20 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 2015 Annual report riotinto.
