18 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal risks RPC is subject to a number of risks, both external andinternal, some of which could have a significant impact on the performance of its business.
A regular review is conducted of these risks to identify both the nature and magnitude, and the manner in which it can be mitigated.
The risks that are seen as being particularly important at the current time are: AREA OF RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK MITIGATION T Polymer resin, which is the key raw material used in The Group is able to pass on the majority of polymer price Polymer price the manufacture of rigid plastic packaging, represented increases to its customers through agreed contractual terms, and availability c40% ofthe operating costs of the business in 2014 15. providing an effective hedge against polymer price increases Polymer prices have risen consistently in recent years and are albeit with a time lag.
subject to volatility, as demonstrated in the year, as they tend The Group has also reduced its dependence on individual to follow the underlying price of oil as well as being impacted suppliers by adapting its manufacturing sites to convert a wider by changes in global supply and demand.
range of polymer grades, to mitigate against supply disruption.
In addition some sources of polymer supply are affected by plant breakdowns and unscheduled maintenance which can result in shortages.
The Group has long established relationships with a number There is a high degree of mutual dependency between RPC and Dependence on of key customers, with the top 10 accounting for over 28% of its customers and because of the Groups size, product range, key customers sales in 2014 15.
The loss of any one of these customers could geographical reach and the joint investment often required to adversely affect the Groups results in the short-term.
develop a product, many customers have difficulty in moving their business to an alternative supplier in the short-term.
In addition customer retention is strengthened by the Group remaining responsive to customer demands, by delivering high quality products, excellent customer service and developing innovative packaging solutions that can provide new sales opportunities for our customers.
Pricing and competitive The market for rigid plastic packaging, although fragmented, The Group differentiates itself from its competitors by has become increasingly competitive, particularly where establishing long-term relationships with its customers through pressures there has been consolidation or overcapacity in the market, bespoke product development and through investing in new exacerbated by the economic recession.
An increasing focus and innovative capabilities across a wide range of conversion on pricing by customers puts pressure on margins and may lead technologies.
In addition the Group has improved its competitive to lost business where customers have the capability to switch position in the challenging economic environment of the last few volumes to other suppliers.
years by focusing on cost reduction, improving productivity and operational efficiencies most recently through its Fitter for the Futurebusiness optimisation programme.
Economic environment The continued impact of the recessionary economic The Group operates in a number of different markets product, environment in the UK and the Eurozone, to which 89% ofthe geographical, end customer or niches within the rigid plastic and cyclical patterns in Groups sales are made, has resulted in reduced demand for packaging market, which serves to dilute the effect of adversity the rigid plastic packaging some of our businesses.
Other factors, such aschanges in of any one particular sector.
market consumer preferences and packaging trends, also impact The Group actively monitors the economic environment on demand.
andpatterns of demand, the impact this has on its businesses and responds by incremental and structural changes to its operations.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 19 C Ch han ang ge e i in n r ris isk k si sinc nce e t the he 2 20 01 14 A 4 An nn nu ua al Re l Rep po or rt t Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk AREA OF RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK MITIGATION T Businesses face the potential risk of operations being affected The Group ensures that alternative sources of supply are Business interruption by disruption due to loss of supply, failures with technology, available where possible, and where a problem is localised in and the loss of industrial disputes and physical damage arising from fire, flood many cases it is possible to manufacture or supply the product essential supplies or other catastrophe.
The loss of essential services or supplies from another site within the Group.
In addition all businesses could have a significant impact on the Groups ability to service have established protocols and procedures to ensure business its customers.
continuity in the event of a major incident.
The Groups reputation as a business partner relies heavily The Group employs strict control measures and externally Supply of faulty or on its ability to supply quality products on time and in full.
accredited systems to ensure the safety and quality of products contaminated products The supply of faulty or contaminated products could have that are manufactured.
The Group also has appropriate serious consequences.
insurance in place to cover product liability.
The risk of fire represents a significant physical risk to the Business sites have sprinkler and or smoke detection systems Safeguarding Group and the impact of a major catastrophe of this nature in place together with other preventive measures.
Health and physical property could be considerable.
The health and safety of our employees safety audits are regularly performed, in conjunction with and our employees is the number one priority at all of our sites.
internal and external specialists, to drive sites to best practice.
Risks relate to the cost and availability of funding for the The Groups treasury activities are governed by policies Funding and Groups businesses, movements in interest rates and foreign andprocedures approved and monitored by the Board.
financial risks currency exchange rates.
The Group has a translation exposure to the euro, as the majority of the Groups earnings and net The Group negotiates funding requirements in a timely manner assets are reported in thiscurrency.
ensuring appropriate headroom and funding tenure is obtained to mitigate availability risk.
The Group borrows at both fixed and floating rates to give a degree of stability to the interest rate charged each year.
TheGroups balance sheet translation exposure to the euro is hedged by ensuring that borrowings in euros are matched to the Groups net assets in euros, and any significant transactional exposures in foreign currency are managed using approved financial derivatives.
The Group uses significant amounts of electricity in the The Group has an energy purchasing strategy which ensures Energy costs manufacturing process.
The price of electricity is subject that a proportion of electricity purchased is at fixed rates, and to volatility and is a significant cost of manufacture for the business is focused on reducing the electricity consumed thebusiness.
per tonne of polymer converted through manufacturing efficiency improvements and the use of technical advances in equipment and processes.
TheGroup also participates in a Climate Change Agreement, through the British Plastics Federation, whichsets out energy reduction targets.
