ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 46 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES STRATEGIC RISKS Description Potential impact Mitigation Competition on price, for Where a competitor decides to use cost Rotork already has a direct presence, in terms of example as a result of an savings to reduce their selling prices, production, sales and service support, in many low existing competitor moving this could lead to a reduction in the cost locations and regularly reviews opportunities in to manufacture in a lower general market price.
Rotork might need other countries.
There is a constant drive to maintain cost area of the world.
to respond to a change in market price differentiation from the competition both in terms levels whilst still maintaining the price of the quality of our products and of the service we premium currently enjoyed for some provide and thus ensure that price is not the only products.
This could impact our market means of gaining a competitive advantage.
share and would impact our ability to grow the Group revenue.
Not having the appropriate In order to be able to compete on a Development of products, or acquisition of products, either in terms of project, our products must meet both the companies with products, to meet the required features or costs.
necessary specification and pricing level.
market driven specifications and broaden our A failure on either count could harm our product portfolio is an ongoing activity as is the competitive position and result in us not drive to take cost out of our products to meet target winning the project.
Lower investment in Rotorks A reduction in capital or maintenance Identification of potential new end markets or ones traditional market sectors.
expenditure in one of Rotorks key which are becoming more active takes place in each market sectors would result in a smaller location and is coordinated at divisional level.
This is addressable market, which in turn could supported by product development and innovation lead to a reduction in revenue from to address new markets and new applications in that sector.
At a Group level our geographic and end market diversification provides resilience to a reduction in any one area or market but, as we have seen this year, may not fully mitigate a change in the larger end markets.
FINANCIAL RISKS Description Potential impact Mitigation Volatility of exchange rates Significant fluctuations in exchange A clear treasury hedging policy addresses short would impact Rotorks rates could have an adverse impact on term risk and this works together with the natural reported results and Rotorks reported results and adversely hedging provided by the geographical spread of competitive position.
affect the pricing point of our products operations, sourcing and customers.
Whilst this will in other currencies.
protect against some of the transaction exposure our reported results would still be impacted by the translation of our non-UK operations.
Political instability in a key Disruption of normal business activity The wide geographic spread of Rotorks operations end market.
would impact our sales in that country and customers diminishes the impact of any one and might ultimately lead to loss of any market on the results of the Group as a whole.
assets located in that country as well.
Growth of the defined The amount of the deficit may be Both defined benefit schemes are closed to new benefit pension adversely affected by a number of members, with the UK scheme closed in January scheme deficit.
The Group and trustees monitor the long term interest rates, price inflation performance of the scheme regularly, taking actuarial and members longevity.
This in turn and investment advice as appropriate.
The results of might lead to a requirement for the these reviews are discussed by the Board.
Company to increase cash contributions to the schemes.
Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 47 OPERATIONAL RISKS Description Potential impact Mitigation Major in field product failure Replacement of defective components or A comprehensive set of quality control and new arising from a component complete units would give rise to a direct product introduction procedures operates over defect or warranty issue financial cost and there could also be a suppliers.
These include supplier visits, audits and a which might require a reputational risk.
This in turn could impact scorecard system to measure their performance.
our ability to achieve premium pricing.
some markets, legislation determines that this risk is entirely passed to the end-user.
Our global service coverage ensures that any product failure issues could be dealt with quickly and efficiently to minimise any reputational impact.
Failure of a key supplier or a Where customer delivery expectations Dual sourcing for key components wherever possible tooling failure at a supplier are not met, this could lead to financial provides the best mitigation for key suppliers.
Regular causing disruption to penalties and damage customer monitoring and replacement of tooling at all suppliers planned manufacturing.
reduces the risk of a tooling failure.
Inventory levels are maintained at a sufficient level to protect against short term disruption.
Failure of an acquisition Whilst growth opportunities, cost savings During the due diligence process a 100 day plan is to deliver the growth or and synergies are identified prior to prepared to manage the important initial stages of synergies anticipated, due completion, these may not always be integration.
Consideration is given to the composition to incorrect assumptions or delivered at the levels anticipated or and skills of the management team with the changing market conditions, to the timetable expected following necessary training and support provided by a variety or failure to integrate the acquisition.
Although these of Rotork personnel.
This should ensure an effective an acquisition to ensure benefits are usually not priced into the integration and communication of Rotorks policies compliance with Rotorks purchase consideration, a significant and procedures, whilst monitoring delivery of the policies and procedures.
underperformance could lead to an financial plan.
impairment write down of the associated intangible assets.
Failure of IT security systems Sensitive data is stored and transmitted Rotork has a range of measures in place to monitor to prevent penetration by electronically around the world.
The and mitigate this risk.
unauthorised people and Group is therefore exposed to the risk access to commercially of data loss by cyberattack.
might contain technically or commercially sensitive information which would provide a competitor with an advantage.
Viability Statement RISK TREND The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year period taking account of the Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks as documented above.
Increasing A robust assessment of the principal risks facing this business was conducted through the year with the documentation of the Risk Stable Appetite Framework contributing to a fuller review of those risks which might impact the business model or future performance.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a three year period.
The lookout period for the analysis is three years which is aligned with our planning horizon at both Group and divisional level.
In making this statement, the Directors have considered each of the principal risks and the potential impact they could have in severe but plausible scenarios.
Given the current position of the Group and the likely effectiveness of mitigating actions, the Board has assessed the impact these would have on the business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period.
