Strategic Report Chief Executives review Principal risks Strategic Risk or uncertainty and potential impact How we manage it priorities Product failure Embedding and operating a safety-first culture.
1 Product not meeting safety expectations, Applying our engineering design and validation process from initial design through production orcausing significant impact to customers 2 andinto service.
orthe environment through failure The Safety & Ethics Committee reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the Groups product 3 inqualitycontrol.
safety policies to ensure that they operate to the highest industry standards see Safety & Ethics Committee report on page 99.
Operating a safety management system SMS, governed by the product safety review board, andsubject to continual improvement based on experience and industry best practice.
Product safety training is an integral part of our SMS.
see Safety & Ethics Committee report on page 100 for details of the SMS.
Improving our supply chain quality.
Crisis management team jointly chaired by the Group President and the General Counsel.
This principal risk is subject to review by the Safety & Ethics Committee.
Continued investment in adequate capacity and modern equipment and facilities.
Business continuity 2 Breakdown of external supply chain or Identifying and assessing points of weakness in our internal and external supply chain, internal facilities that could be caused by 3 ourITsystems and our people skills.
destruction ofkeyfacilities, natural disaster, Selecting and developing stronger suppliers.
regional conflict, insolvency of a critical Developing dual sources or dual capability.
supplier or scarcity of materials which Developing and testing incident management and business continuity plans.
wouldreduce the ability to meet customer Crisis management team jointly chaired by the Group President and the General Counsel.
commitments, win future business Customer excellence centres providing improved response to supply chain disruption.
This principal risk is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
Accessing and developing key technologies and service offerings which differentiate Competitive position 1 The presence of large, financially strong uscompetitively see Engineering and innovation on page 18. competitors in the majority of our markets 2 Focusing on being responsive to our customers and improving the quality, delivery and reliability means that the Group is susceptible ofour products and services.
3 tosignificant price pressure for original Partnering with others effectively.
equipment or services, even where our Driving down cost and improving margins see Chief Executives review on page 12. markets are mature, or the competitors Protecting credit lines.
Our main competitors have Investing in innovation, manufacturing and production, and continuing governance of accesstosignificant government funding technology programmes see Engineering and innovation on page 18 and Science & Technology programmes, as well as the ability Committee report on page 103. toinvestheavily intechnology and industrialcapability.
Maintaining a strong balance sheet to enable access to cost-effective sources of third-partyfunding.
This principal risk is subject to review by the Board.
Where possible, locating our facilities and supply chain in countries with alowlevel ofpolitical Political risk 2 Geopolitical factors that lead to an risk and or ensuring that we maintain dual capability.
unfavourable business climate and Diversifying global operations to avoid excessive concentration of risks in particular areas.
significant tensions between major trading The international network of Rolls-Royce and its business units proactively monitoring parties or blocs which could impact the localsituations.
For example: explicit Maintaining a balanced business portfolio with high barriers to entry and a diverse customer trade protectionism, differing tax or base see Chief Executives review on page 8. regulatory regimes, potential for conflict, Proactively influencing regulation where it affects us.
Major programmes are subject to Board approval see Additional financial information on page 176.
Major programme delivery 1 Failure to deliver a major programme Reviewing major programmes at levels and frequencies appropriate to their criticality 2 ontime, within budget, to specification, or andperformance, against key financial and non-financial deliverables and potential risks technical performance falling significantly throughout the programmes life cycle see Additional financial information on page 176. short of customer expectations, or not Conducting technical audits at pre-defined points which are performed by a team that delivering theplanned business benefits, isindependent from the programme.
would have potentially significant adverse Requiring programmes to address the actions arising from reviews and audits and monitoring financial and reputational consequences, andcontrolling progress through to closure.
including the risk of impairment of the Applying knowledge management principles to provide benefit to current and future programmes.
carrying value of the Groups intangible This principal risk is subject to review by the Board.
assets and the impact ofpotential litigation.
1 Engineering excellence 2 Operational excellence 3 Capturing aftermarket value Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 55 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Principal risks PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Strategic Risk or uncertainty and potential impact How we manage it priorities Taking an uncompromising approach to compliance.
Compliance 2 Non-compliance by the Group with Operating an extensive compliance programme.
This programme and the Global Code legislation or other regulatory requirements ofConductare disseminated throughout the Group and are updated from time to time toensure in the regulated environment inwhich it their continued relevance, and to ensure that they are complied with, both in spirit and to the operates eg.
export controls: offset: use of letter.
TheGlobal Code of Conduct and the Groups compliance programme are supported by controlled chemicals and substances: and appropriatetraining see Safety & Ethics Committee report on page 102. anti-bribery and corruption legislation Strengthening of the ethics, anti-bribery and corruption, compliance and export controlteams.
compromising ourability to conduct A legal team is in place to manage any ongoing regulatory investigations.
business in certain jurisdictions and Implementing a comprehensive REACH compliance programme.
This includes establishing exposing the Group topotential reputational appropriate data systems and processes, working with our suppliers, customers and trade damage, financial penalties, debarment from government contracts for a period of time, associations and conducting research on alternative materials.
and or suspension of export privileges or This principal risk is subject to review by the Safety & Ethics Committee.
export credit financing, any of which could have amaterial adverse effect.
Maintaining a strong balance sheet, through managing cash balances and debt levels Market and financial shock 2 The Group is exposed to a number of market seeFinancialreview on page 42.
3 risks, some of which are of a macro-economic Providing financial flexibility by maintaining high levels of liquidity and an investment nature eg.
foreign currency, oil price, gradecreditrating.
exchange rates andsome of which are more Sustaining a balanced portfolio through earning revenue both from the sale of original specific tothe Group eg.
liquidity and credit equipment and aftermarket services, providing a broad product range and addressing risks, reduction in air travel or disruption diversemarkets that have differing business cycles see Chief Executives review on page 8. toother customer operations.
Significant Deciding where and what currencies to source in, and where and how much credit risk is extraneous market events could extended ortaken.
The Group has a number of treasury policies that are designed to alsomaterially damage the Groups hedgeresidual risks using financial derivatives foreign exchange, interest rates and competitiveness and or creditworthiness.
Thiswould affect operational results orthe commoditypricerisk.
Implementing defence in depth through deployment of multiple layers of software IT vulnerability 1 Breach of IT security causing controlled  web gateways, filtering, firewalls, intrusion, advanced persistent 2 orcritical data to be lost, made inaccessible, threatdetectors and integrated reporting see Audit Committee report on page 95. corrupted oraccessed by unauthorised users.
Running security and network operations centres.
Actively sharing IT security information through industry, government and security forums.
Attracting, rewarding and retaining the right people with the right skills globally inaplanned Talent and capability 1 Inability to attract and retain the critical andtargeted way, including regular benchmarking of remuneration.
2 capabilities and skills needed in sufficient Developing and enhancing organisational, leadership, technical and functional capability numbers and to effectively organise, deploy todeliverglobal programmes.
3 and incentivise our people to deliver our Continuing a strong focus on individual development and succession planning.
Proactively monitoring retirement in key areas and actively managing the development andcareerpaths of our people with a special focus on employees with the highestpotential.
Embedding a lean, agile high performance culture that tightly aligns Group strategy withindividual and team objectives.
Retaining, incentivising and effectively deploying the critical capabilities, skills and people needed to deliver our strategic priorities, plans and projects whilst implementing the Groups major programme to transform its business, to be resilient and to act with pace and simplicity.
Tracking engagement through our annual employee opinion survey and a commitment todriveyear-on-year improvement to the employee experience and communications seeSustainability onpage 50.
This principal risk is subject to review by the Nominations & Governance Committee.
Engineering excellence Operational excellence Capturing aftermarket value 1 2 3 56 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Chief Executives review Going concern and viability GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENTS On the basis described above, the Directors In making this statement, the Directors have Introduction consider it appropriate to adopt the going made the following key assumptions: concern basis in preparing the consolidated Rolls-Royce operates an annual planning that maturing facilities will be refinanced.
financial statements in accordance with the process which includes strategic greater The Group currently has access to global Guidance on Risk Management, Internal than five years, medium-term five year debt markets and expects to be able to Control and Related Financial and Business andshort-term one year financial forecasts, refinance these facilities on commercially Reporting published by the Financial based on the inputs from each of the acceptable terms.
The Groups mediumReporting Council in September 2014. businesses.
These plans and risks to their and long-term financing plans are achievement are reviewed by the Board Viability designed to allow for periods of adverse aspart of its strategy review and budget The viability assessment considers solvency conditions in world capital markets but approval processes.
Once approved these and liquidity over a longer period than not a prolonged say 12 month period plans are cascaded throughout the Group forthe purposes of the going concern where debt markets were effectively and are used as the basis for monitoring assessment above.
Inevitably, the degree closed to the Group: ourperformance, incentivising employees ofcertainty reduces over this longer period.
that in the event of multiple risks and providing external guidance occurring and having a particularly severe toourshareholders.
In making the assessment, severe but effect onthe Group, all potential actions, plausible scenarios have been considered The processes for identifying and managing suchasconstraining capital spending that estimate the potential impact of each the principal risks are described on pages 54 andreducing or suspending payments ofthe principal risks arising over the to 56.
As also described there, the risk toshareholders, would be taken on a assessment period, for example: the loss of management process, and in consequence timely basis.
The Group believes it has akey element of the supply chain: the impact the going concern and viability statements, theearly warning mechanisms to identify on aircraft travel of a global pandemic: or, are designed to provide reasonable but not the needfor such actions and the ability afailure to achieve planned cost reductions.
toimplement them on a timely basis The scenarios assume an appropriate Going concern ifnecessary: management response to the specific event, The going concern assessment considers but not broader mitigating actions which that implausible scenarios, whether whether it is appropriate to prepare the could be undertaken, which were considered involving multiple risks occurring at the financial statements on a going concern basis.
The impacts of these scenarios same time or the impact of individual were overlaid on the medium-term forecast risksoccurring that cannot be mitigated As described on page 177, the Group meets to assess how the Groups liquidity and bymanagement actions to the degree its funding requirements through a mixture solvency would be affected.
For instance, of shareholders funds, bank borrowings, The assessment took account of the Groups whilst the Directors have considered bonds and notes.
At 31 December 2015, the current funding, forecast requirements and ascenario where cost reductions are Group had borrowing facilities of 5.1bn and existing committed borrowing facilities.
notachieved and a major programme total liquidity of 5.0bn, including cash and Itassumed that existing facilities could be isdelayed, they have not considered it cash equivalents of 3.2bn and undrawn refinanced as they mature.
There are modest plausible that any other ofthe key risks facilities of 1.8bn.
419m of the facilities maturities over the first three years of the would crystallise in a way that would mature in 2016. medium-term forecast with more significant create a worse outcome over the five-year The Groups forecasts and projections, taking maturities in 2019 and 2020. assessment period.
into account reasonably possible changes in Warren East trading performance, show that the Group has On the basis described above, the Board Chief Executive sufficient financial resources.
The Directors confirms that it has a reasonable expectation 11 February 2016 have reasonable expectations that the that the Company will be able to continue in Company and the Group are well placed to operation and meet its liabilities as they fall manage business risks and to continue due over the next five years, consistent with inoperational existence for the foreseeable the period of the medium-term forecast.
future which accounting standards require to be at least a year from the date of this report and have not identified any material uncertainties to the Companys and the Groups ability to do so.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 57
