Strategic report Principal risks Focused on managing our risks The principal risks facing the group and considered by the board and the executive committee are detailed below.
The groups well-developed risk management process is described in the corporate governance section while financial risks are discussed in the finance review on page 45 and in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
Principal risk Context Speci c risks we face Possible impact Consumer tastes and behaviours Failing to develop and ensure the strength Topline growth progression Consistent are constantly evolving, and at an does not meet internal and and relevance of our brands with consumers, sustainable increasingly rapid rate.
revenue Failing to continue to improve our commercial Competition in the beverage industry Market positions come growth capabilities to deliver brand propositions is expanding and becoming more under pressure, market that respond appropriately to changing fragmented, complex and opportunities are missed consumer preferences.
The global brewing and beverages Failing to participate in the right opportunities.
Lower growth rates, Industry pro tability and financial industry is expected to continue to Paying too much to acquire a business.
There will continue to Not implementing integration plans successfully.
be opportunities to enter attractive Failing to identify and develop the capabilities Failure to maintain our growth markets, to realise synergy necessary to facilitate market and category entry.
competitive position bene ts from integration and to relative to our peers.
With an increasingly high pro le Unreasonable regulation places increasing Lower growth, pro tability Regulatory and reduced contribution debate over alcohol consumption in restrictions on the availability and marketing changes to local communities in many markets, the alcohol industry of beer.
is coming under more pressure Tax and excise changes cause pressure from national and international on pricing.
Loss of consumer goodwill regulators, NGOs and local Anti-alcohol advocates erode industry and public sentiment.
We believe that our people are Failing to identify, develop and retain an Failure to deliver the Management groups strategic and our enduring advantage and appropriate pipeline of talented managers for capability financial ambitions.
therefore it is essential that we the present and future needs of the group.
develop and maintain global Lower long-term management capability.
We continue to execute major Failing to derive the expected bene ts from Increased programme costs, Delivering ef ciency programmes that will the projects currently under way.
lower bene ts than planned, business delays in bene t realisation simplify processes, reduce costs Failing to contain programme costs or ensure transformation and business disruption.
and allow local management execution is in line with planned timelines.
teams to focus more closely Reputational damage on their markets.
and reduced competitive advantage in the medium term.
There is increasing sophistication Disruption of information technology IT systems Loss of competitive advantage Information and reputational damage of cyber-attack capabilities.
and a loss of valuable and sensitive information and cyber through the publicised loss Businesss increasing demand and assets.
security of key operating systems for consumers and customers Signi cant business disruption.
personal data means legislators Failing to comply with tightening legislation rightly continue to impose tighter poses a threat of signi cant financial penalties Adverse effect on pro tability, data management control.
cash ows or financial position.
A key aspect of the CUB Failing to deliver integration objectives and Lower growth rates, Acquisition acquisition was the delivery of commercial and operational excellence targets pro tability and asset values.
of CUB a turnaround plan with speci c communicated as part of the turnaround plan.
Damage to the groups and communicated financial Failing to achieve the synergy and cost-saving reputation for strong value creation.
commercial capability and for making value creating acquisitions.
16 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Mitigation Associated strategic priorities Continuous evaluation of our brand portfolios in every market to ensure that they target current and future Drive superior topline growth.
opportunities for pro table growth.
Actively shape our global mix Developing a beer category structure that enables us to grow both the value of the beer category, to drive a superior growth pro le.
Build a globally integrated Ensuring we have a deep understanding of changing consumer and industry dynamics in key markets, organisation to optimise enabling us to respond appropriately to opportunities and issues which may impact our business resources, win in market performance.
Building our brand equities through innovation and compelling marketing programmes: creating a pipeline of opportunities to support our premium offering.
Focusing on monitoring and benchmarking commercial performance and developing the critical commercial capabilities that are required in order to win in local markets.
Continued competitor and target analysis to consider strategic and financial implications of potential Actively shape our global mix transactions.
to drive a superior growth pro le.
Potential transactions are subject to continual and rigorous analysis.
Only opportunities with potential Drive superior topline growth.
to create value are pursued.
Proven integration processes, procedures and practices are applied to ensure delivery of expected returns.
Activities to deliver synergies and leverage scale are in place, monitored closely and continuously enhanced.
Development of non-traditional capabilities to enter and grow pro tably in new markets.
Rigorous adherence to the principle of self-regulation backed by appropriate policies and management review.
Building and maintaining licence to trade capabilities across the group to facilitate sound risk analysis and Actively shape our global mix mitigation plan development.
Constructive engagement with government and all external stakeholders on alcohol-related issues.
Build a globally integrated Working collaboratively with them to address the harmful use of alcohol.
organisation to optimise Investment to improve the economic and social impact of our businesses in local communities and working resources, win in market in partnership with local governments and NGOs.
Driving our Prosper shared imperatives to make a sustainable and measurable difference to the communities and ecosystems in which we operate.
Building the groups leadership talent pipeline through our Global Talent Management model, Build a globally integrated strategic people resourcing and long-term talent pipeline.
organisation to optimise Sustaining a strong culture of accountability, empowerment and personal development.
resources, win in market and reduce costs.
Senior leadership closely involved in monitoring progress and in making key decisions.
Build a globally integrated Mechanisms in place to track both costs and bene ts.
organisation to optimise Rigorous programme management and governance processes including independent programme resources, win in market assurance with dedicated resources and clear accountability.
Actively shape our global mix to drive a superior growth pro le.
Continued development, articulation and implementation of information security policies.
Build a globally integrated Increased investment to improve information security awareness, intelligence and implementation organisation to optimise of sound security processes.
resources, win in market Building and enhancing processes to deal with IT security incidents.
Embedding of the SABMiller Ways its processes, systems and tools throughout the CUB business.
Actively shape our global mix Commercial efforts in market to effectively deliver volume, value and market share gains.
Continued monitoring of progress to complete the integration objectives, including frequent and regular Build a globally integrated tracking of key performance indicators.
organisation to optimise resources, win in market and reduce costs.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 17 LATIN AMERICA Where Lager volumes Setting the pace on sugarcane we operate 44.2m hl 1st 1 1 % Our sugarcane farming Soft drinks volumes operation in Honduras became the fi first 19.9m hl producer in Central America to achieve 1 sustainable sugarcane certifi cation.
8% Group NPR Signi cant business with production operations 2 US$5,768m Selling operations and 8% major export markets 2 EBITA US$2,224m 7% Drive superior topline growth through our brands: Innovation accounted for 12% of group NPR in the region: Premiumisation supported by Club Colombia growth and expansion of the Miller franchise.
18 18 SABMiller SABMiller plc plc An Ann nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 15 5 Strategic report Operations review Latin America Effective campaigns focusing on events and new occasions, as well as targeted consumer activations, supported our brands, while we continue to tap into new sources of growth through innovations.
In Latin America, group NPR grew strongly In Colombia, group NPR growth of 6% on an organic, constant currency basis at on a constant currency basis re ected We increased marketing 7% level on a reported basis.
Lager pricing total volume growth of 2%, selective price and growth in our premium and above increases and premiumisation, buoyed by investment behind our brands mainstream categories, together with strong strong non-alcoholic malt volume growth.
to support an expansion soft drinks volume growth, underpinned this Lager volumes were in line with the prior year, performance.
Effective campaigns focusing although our share of alcohol increased by of the beer category.
on events and new occasions, as well as 180 bps.
Our above mainstream brand Aguila targeted consumer activations, supported Light and bulk packs saw continued growth, our brands, while we continue to tap into together with strong performance in our new sources of growth through innovations.
premium brands, Club Colombia and Miller In Colombia our bulk pack expansion Lite, offsetting a decline in our mainstream continued successfully, while in Honduras we brands, Aguila and Poker.
have stepped up our efforts in making beer more affordable in line with our strategy of expanding the lager category.
Our financial performance was assisted by a reduction in Karl Lippert real unit production costs, notwithstanding President, SABMiller currency pressure on imported raw materials, Latin America and xed cost productivity, while we continue to simplify and drive ef ciencies in our businesses, including the disposal of non-core assets.
We have increased marketing investment behind our brands to support our expansion of the beer category and innovations, while currency headwinds, most notably in Colombia and Peru, diluted reported results.
Reported EBITA margin continues to grow, with a further 40 bps improvement in the year.
Organic, constant Net currency Reported Reported acquisitions Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2014 and disposals translation growth 2015 % % Group NPR including share of associates US$m 5,745 9 348 380 5,768 7 1 EBITA US$m 2,192 2 132 166 2,224 81 EBITA margin % 38.2 38.6 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 43,586 570 44,156 11 Soft drinks 18,514 70 1,421 19,865 87 Total beverages 62,100 70 1,991 64,021 33 In 2014 before an exceptional credit of US$47 million, being the pro t on disposal of the Panama milk and juice business.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 19 Strategic report Operations review Latin America | | Our premium segment growth was In Ecuador, group NPR growth of 10% was underpinned by a new proprietary bottle underpinned by the continuing robust growth for Club Colombia, differentiated seasonal of our above mainstream brand Pilsener Light offerings and increased reach.
Trading, and price increases in the latter half of the generally, was negatively impacted by dry prior year.
We delivered 2% lager volume laws during the presidential elections and growth despite increased trading restrictions the soccer World Cup.
Soft drinks volumes and advertising bans, through new occasions bene ted from double digit growth driven by such as events and midweek outlet the success of our non-alcoholic malt brand activation, together with pack innovation and Pony Malta and the PET bulk pack offering.
the effective use of social media.
In addition Favourable raw material prices offset foreign our sales service model yielded better quality exchange headwinds and xed cost service and improved our coverage.
Our productivity resulted in strong margin growth.
share of alcohol volumes declined by 350 bps in the year, moderating the signi cant gains Perus group NPR grew by 5% on a constant achieved over the past few years, while currency basis driven by total volume growth Pilsener Light continues capturing share of 4%.
Lager volumes increased by within the portfolio as consumers 2% with our above mainstream trade up.
In addition to positive brand Pilsen Callao achieving mix, xed cost productivity double digit growth, as further enhanced our margin consumers continue to trade and financial results.
up from mainstream, more 7% Miller grows in than offsetting a decline in In Panama, group NPR Group NPR growth on our premium Cusquea grew by 3% on an organic Latin America an organic, constant brand.
Our international basis boosted by our currency basis.
premium brand offerings mainstream brand Atlas and Miller Lite and Miller Genuine Draft continued to expand their reach innovations in the light segment have delivered striking growth in with double digit volume growth.
with the launch of Balboa Ice.
Our share of lager market volumes Premium segment volumes were level continued to improve, up by 60 bps, re ecting strong price competition in the The Miller franchise sold almost underpinned by strong trade execution premium segment.
Our non-alcoholic malt one million hectolitres across the region during the summer and the World Cup brand, Malta Vigor, saw 12% growth boosted with 25% growth in the year, with particular soccer activities, which overcame the effect by the smaller PET pack offering, while success for Miller Genuine Draft in of adverse weather conditions and social other soft drinks volumes declined due to Panama.
In Latin America, all Miller disruption from activities against illegal mining heightened price competition.
In February variants are premium priced, with Miller in the country.
Soft drinks volumes were up 2015 we disposed of our interest in an Lite positioned in the premium segment by 13% with growth coming from Guarana, associated company involved in can and Miller Genuine Draft in super premium.
San Mateo and our non-alcoholic malt manufacturing for cash consideration In the past five years, the Miller franchise brand Maltin Power, all boosted by pack of US$7 million.
volumes have, off a low base, seen a innovations.
Further optimisation of our compound annual growth rate of 67% production grid, together with distribution and in Latin America.
sales ef ciencies, assisted financial results.
Light beer growth strengthens In Latin America, strong demand for our light beer brands is increasing their importance in our portfolio.
Light beer is growing faster than any other segment in Latin America, as consumers, particularly women, increasingly favour easy drinking beers.
We are meeting these evolving preferences, in line with our strategy of responding to trends and our aim to reach more consumers on more occasions.
In the year, in Ecuador, volumes of Pilsener Light grew by 185%, and it now represents 28% of the brand franchise: in Colombia, volumes of Aguila Light grew by 9%.
20 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Taking time out with friends and a beer Our Jueves fide Patas or Friends Thursday campaign has created new occasions for friends to meet in on-trade premises in Peru.
Peruvians traditionally drink at home rather than in pubs, with just 37% of beer sold on-premise.
Friends Thursday encourages consumers to catch up with friends for an affordable weekday Pilsen Callao beer outside the home.
Our Peruvian business Backus built excitement around the four-year campaign with quirky through-the-line media and by offering prizes and incentives to consumers, participating bars and the sales force.
Prosper Two of our Latin America regions top sustainability priorities are water security and accelerating growth and social development in our value chain.
In Honduras, group NPR growth of South America accounts for 28% of global 5% on a constant currency basis was fresh water and has the highest rainfall.
underpinned by lager volume growth of 2%, However, water is often in the wrong place, where double digit growth was achieved in prevalent in scarcely populated rainforest the last quarter with the impetus in driving and scarce in Lima, where nine million affordability through pricing and packs.
This people live in a desert.
SABMiller and came against the backdrop of unfavourable The Nature Conservancy TNC are working economic conditions, Sunday dry laws and together in three countries across Latin Building employee continuing security concerns which have America to build AquaFunds, which gather engagement impacted consumption particularly in the investments from water users and direct on-premise channel.
Against this tough the funding towards conserving ecosystems environment, our trade execution and brand that lter and regulate water supply.
In Our Latin America regions strong resonance with consumers remains strong, Colombia, our Bavaria business, along performance is underpinned by with a gain in alcohol volume share of 60 bps.
with TNC and other partners, has funded its commitment to developing a Soft drinks volumes grew by 5%, driven by eight projects to date.
people-centred business strategy still drinks, multi-serve packs and new and culture.
formats for sparkling soft drinks.
com aquafunds In our global employee opinion El Salvador delivered group NPR growth survey, the region delivered a of 8% driven by lager volume growth of 6% Small-scale shopkeepers tendero s 91% high engagement score with bulk packs growing strongly as a result are a vital part of our value chain, accounting outperforming fast-moving of our affordability strategy and strong trade for 40% of sales volumes across the region.
Lager growth was driven by our Our 4e Path to Progress programme has Latin America and SABMiller agship mainstream brand, Pilsener, together provided more than 7,600 tender os with norms.
Key to this impressive with above mainstream brand Golden Light.
business and leadership training, in result was the regions Meaningful In the premium segment our local brands partnership with the Inter-American Jobs initiative, which aims to continued to grow and the Miller range of Development Bank and FUNDES.
ensure its 36,000 employees and brands saw double digit growth.
Soft drinks contractors feel that they and their volumes grew by 6%, with particularly strong Read more on page 8. work matters.
The initiative tracks growth in sparkling soft drinks.
and where necessary takes Read more about regional and country follow-up action on eight criteria, sustainability priorities and performance at ranging from understanding www.
com sam expectations and the suitability of work tools to regular feedback and opportunities to learn and advance.
A complementary Meaningful Conversations programme has coached 3,500 leaders, at all levels, in effective communication.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 21 AFRICA Where we Lager volumes Soft drinks operate volumes 48.4m hl 34.9m hl 1 1 9% 4% Group NPR US$7,462m 2 Signi cant business with production operations 9% 5 markets Associates are driving local sourcing and affordable growth through our Eagle and Impala brands.
Drive superior topline growth through our brands: 2 Castle Lite: reached 5.5 million hl as it is rolled out across 6% the region: EBITA Hero in Nigeria: 1 million hl within two years of launch: and US$1,907m Strong growth of fl avour innovations in South Africa, such as Flying Fish and Castle Lite Lime.
22 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Operations review Africa The majority of our markets performed challenged due to weak economic fundamentals.
The majority of our markets well through strong local portfolios with performed well through strong local portfolios with continued premiumisation and growth of continued premiumisation and growth our affordable brands.
We recorded strong growth in our soft drinks portfolio resulting of our affordable brands.
from price moderation and strong retail execution.
We continue to invest in capacity including the commissioning of the Namibia Mark Bowman brewery during the second half of the year Managing Director, and expansions in Ghana and Nigeria which SABMiller Africa are nearing completion.
The construction of our maltings plants in South Africa and Zambia is progressing well.
EBITA grew 6% on an organic, constant currency basis, but declined by 2% on a reported basis due to the depreciation of key currencies against the US dollar.
We continue to invest behind our brands, innovate and strengthen our execution in trade.
Currency weaknesses created raw material input cost pressures which were partially offset by our focus on improving production ef ciencies and sustainable development initiatives, such as our Go Farming approach.
EBITA margin declined by 70 bps on a reported Africa delivered group NPR growth of 9% on basis driven by transactional impacts of an organic, constant currency basis 1% on a currency depreciation, moderated pricing in reported basis.
The growth was derived from conjunction with our affordability initiatives, share gains across a number of markets, and adverse geographic mix.
total volume growth of 5%, selective pricing and continued premiumisation in lager.
The integration of our South Africa beverages The skill and scale in the The performance in the fourth quarter was business and the rest of Africa into one particularly strong, underpinned by the timing region is progressing well.
The skill and scale South African business of Easter in the year and cycling weaker in the South African business is bene ting the is benefi ting the trading in the prior year.
Lager volumes in the African businesses in the areas of innovation, region grew by 4%, tempered by declines in distribution, sourcing and revenue African businesses.
Tanzania and Zambia, as a result of excisemanagement.
related pricing, and Zimbabwe, which was Organic, constant Net currency Reported Reported acquisitions Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2014 and disposals translation growth 2015 % % Group NPR including share of associates US$m 7,421 13 636 690 7,462 91 1 EBITA US$m 1,954 4 152 109 1,907 6 2 EBITA margin % 26.3 25.6 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 46,768 1,645 48,413 44 Soft drinks 32,080 2 2,819 34,901 99 Other alcoholic beverages 7,618 62 62 7,618 1 Total beverages 86,466 60 4,526 90,932 55 1 In 2015 before a net exceptional credit of US$45 million being additional pro t on disposal of a business in 2012 2014: net exceptional charges of US$8 million being Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment related charges of US$33 million, net of pro t on disposal of a business of US$25 million.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 23 Strategic report Operations review Africa | | In South Africa, strong group NPR growth Castle Lager in mainstream, price increases of 9% on organic, constant currency basis in the context of mid-single digit in ation, and was delivered in the context of weak growth in spirits volumes.
The growth in the economic growth.
Lager volume growth latter was across the portfolio, aided by brand of 2% was driven by market share gains, renovations and increased investment in our selectivity in in ation-related price increases sales force.
and improved mix resulting from the double digit growth of our premium brands Castle Stimulated by Impala, Castle Lite and Lite and Castle Milk Stout.
In the mainstream 2M, lager volumes in Mozambique grew segment, sustained growth in Castle Lager by double digits despite the impact of and Carling Black Label volumes was widespread oods in parts of the country partially offset by a decline in Hansa Pilsener.
The drivers of growth Innovation in the avoured beer segment include selective adjustments to price points, continued to deliver strong growth from both a revamped route to market, and a more Flying Fish and Castle Lite Lime.
Fixed costs stable political environment.
This resulted and manufacturing ef ciencies produced in group NPR growth of 22% on an organic, productivity bene ts that mitigated the impact constant currency basis.
Traditional beer of the shift in consumer preferences into performance was impacted by the ban on lower margin packs.
Soft drinks volume PET which affected our Chibuku brand.
The growth of 8% in a highly competitive integration of the wines and spirits business, environment was aided by improved acquired in the prior year, has been trade execution, price restraint and successfully completed.
Strong growth continued in 2 litre PET packs In Nigeria, group NPR growth supported by the growth of remained strong, with volume 440 ml cans and 330 ml growth driven by incremental 9% Castle Lite becomes PET bottles.
Reductions in capacity, improved availability Group NPR growth on an distribution and xed costs and continued sales and a signifi cant regional organic, constant continued and were partially distribution focus.
premium brand offset by discounts to manage alcoholic malt beverage price points.
Our regional brands, Hero and Castle Lite strengthened its In Tanzania, lager volumes declined Trophy, are performing well on an position as an Africa-wide by 7% due to excise-related pricing and absolute and relative basis as they establish premium brand attracting new a weak agricultural harvest affecting rural themselves as local heartland offerings and consumers of both genders consumer sentiment, although we still gained are resonating strongly with consumers.
and creating new occasions share of the lager market.
Group NPR still Their respective contribution to the regions for consumption.
grew by 6% on a constant currency basis they service is growing and brand visibility re ecting positive lager brand mix driven by is increasing.
Twenty-one years after its launch Castle Lite in the premium segment and in South Africa, Castle Lite which is made at -2.5C is now enjoyed in 11 countries.
This year, regional volumes grew by more than 20%, with particularly strong growth in Mozambique, Namibia, South Flavour innovation Africa and Zambia.
We are now drives growth looking to align Castle Lites Extra Cold proposition across the continent.
Extending refreshment occasions is another route to realising topline growth.
To achieve this, we have launched avoured beer innovations, such as Flying Fish in South Africa.
Flying Fish engages both male and female drinkers from other categories on a greater variety of occasions.
The brand grew strongly in the year supported by the introduction of convenience packs and has now been launched in five other African countries.
The launch of Castle Lite Lime, the first brand extension of the very successful Castle Lite brand, is another example of innovation with avour.
Castle Lite Lime complements our avoured Brutal Fruit and Redds brands.
24 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Building on our success in mainstream African spirits We are building on our mainstream local spirits success in Tanzania to develop the category across Africa.
The African local spirits market is fragmented and largely informal, with most products being untaxed, unregulated and of low quality.
Following our 1993 acquisition of Tanzania Breweries Limited, which included Tanzania Distillers Limited, we have had great success.
Over the past five years, Konyagi volumes have increased at a compound annual growth rate of 25%.
We are now looking to replicate this success selectively with new local operations.
In the year ended 31 March 2014, we acquired a spirits business in Mozambique and in the year we commenced operations in Ethiopia and Nigeria.
Group NPR in Zambia grew by 3% re ecting price increases in both lager and soft drinks Prosper and growth in soft drinks volumes.
Pro tability was impacted by an 8% decline in lager Across Africa, some of our breweries face volumes driven by the excise-related price water supply challenges, from availability increases taken in January 2014.
Beyond our breweries, water returned to growth in the final quarter, as scarcity limits prosperity and growth for we cycled the excise increase, together with thousands of communities.
SABMiller strategic price repositioning and the launch of invests in partnerships to secure water mainstream bulk packs.
Soft drinks volumes for our business growth and for the water grew by 3% resulting from increased users around us.
In 2014 we funded a availability while traditional beer volumes Water Resources Group partnership in declined 2%.
Tanzania to bring together the government and private sector to address a number Trading in Botswana was rejuvenated with of pressing water resource issues.
Supporting African total volumes growing by 8%, driven by the launch of new packs, lager market share Read more about how we are partnering innovation gains and robust growth in the 2 litre PET to tackle water risk on page 48. soft drinks pack.
In Africa, we have pioneered the use of Harmful consumption of alcohol remains traditional local crops such as sorghum In Zimbabwe, consumers disposable a signi cant concern across the region.
In and cassava in beer, creating new markets income remained under pressure amid a South Africa, where underage drinking is a for small-scale subsistence farmers who negative economic environment.
This has serious issue, YouDecide encourages young can now sell surplus crops, boosting their resulted in a loss in volume and increased people to make positive choices and avoid income and food security.
In Uganda, for demand for economy brands and packs drinking underage.
Since it was introduced, example, Nile Breweries directly supports which has driven down value.
Chibuku our campaign has reached more than 1,000 20,000 smallholder farmers who grow Super volumes grew by 23%.
schools and over half a million students.
sorghum for Eagle lager, which has helped Through the reality TV series, Future us become the number one brewer in Castel, our associate, delivered volume Leaders, it showcases ordinary teenagers the market.
growth of 6% with notable performances who are role models for others struggling in lager achieved in the competitive markets to do the right thing.
Through a new exchange programme, of the Democratic Republic of Congo in partnership with the Royal Society in and Ethiopia, as well as Burkina Faso and Read more at www.
za London, we hope to identify, nurture and Cameroon.
This was supported by soft grow local African scienti c expertise to drinks growth in Angola, Algeria and the Read more about regional and country drive the next innovations in agriculture, Ivory Coast.
All these factors assisted sustainability priorities and performance at renewable energy, water security group NPR growth during the year.
Our associate Distells volume performance was up 2% on an organic basis supported by selective price increases and a change in sales and brand mix.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 25 ASIA PACIFIC Where we operate Lager volumes 71.2m hl 1 -2% Signi cant business with production operations Associates Selling operations and major export markets Group NPR 2.5 hl US$3,867m water hl beer 2 2 -4% Our Yatala site in Australia is 1 % EBITA the groups most US$768m water-effi cient brewery.
Drive superior topline growth through our brands: China: Premium growth from Snow Draft and Brave the World: Australia: Premium lager volumes up 7%.
26 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Operations review Asia Pacifi c Beverage volume decline of 2% on an organic basis being offset by group NPR per hl growth of 3%.
In Asia Paci c, group NPR grew by 1% on In Australia, group NPR on a constant an organic, constant currency basis, with the currency basis declined by 2%, re ecting beverage volume decline of 2% on an organic a volume decline of 1% and marginally lower In Australia, the integration basis being offset by group NPR per hl group NPR per hl.
Consumer sentiment programme delivered savings growth of 3%, re ecting pricing together with remains subdued with continued pressure on premiumisation in China as well as a change consumer spending affecting beer category and capability build ahead in the relative weighting of volumes in Australia volumes, which declined by low single digits.
Reported group NPR While we gained share in a weaker market, declined by 2% re ecting the depreciation the lager volume decline re ected a softer of currencies against the US dollar.
EBITA mainstream segment, with declines in core declined by 4% on an organic, constant brands, which was only partially offset by currency basis and by 9% on a reported strong growth in our premium portfolio.
basis, re ecting declines in Australia together with China, where the volume decline in the first half of the year had a signi cant impact on pro tability.
Reported EBITA margin declined by 150 bps, an improvement on the first half of the year as our associate in China, CR Snow, returned to volume growth.
Volume and group NPR improvements in Ari Mervis China were seen particularly in the northeast, Managing Director, the west and the key central provinces with SABMiller Asia Paci c a favourable impact on pro tability for the Asia Paci c region.
In the second half of the financial year, we received the first dividend from our associate, CR Snow, amounting to US$228 million.
Organic, constant Net currency Reported Reported acquisitions Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2014 and disposals translation growth 2015 % % Group NPR including share of associates US$m 3,944 34 141 30 3,867 1 2 1 EBITA US$m 845 1 44 34 768 4 9 EBITA margin % 21.4 19.9 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 71,493 1,449 1,761 71,181 2 Other beverages 110 17 93 15 15 Total beverages 71,603 1,449 1,778 71,274 2 In 2015 before exceptional charges of US$452 million being US$139 million 2014: US$103 million of integration and restructuring costs and impairments of US$313 million 2014: US$nil.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 27 Strategic report Operations review Asia Pacifi c | | Snow reaches Increased trade investment activities during some annualised bene ts to be realised the first half of the year, driven by investment in the next financial year.
We continue China milestone in key customer trading terms and to optimise our brewery network and promotions in a highly competitive retail production scheduling with the closure We celebrated the 20th anniversary of our trading environment, were largely of the Warnervale brewery and partnership with China Resources Enterprise, compensated by price increases the announced closure of CR Snow, in Chengdu this year.
Snow is the taken later in the year which, Port Melbourne brewery and market-leading beer in China and the biggest together with positive Campbelltown cidery, which global beer brand.
momentum in the will occur in two stages 1% contemporary and premium and will be complete by CR Snow has been pursuing a premiumisation segments, resulted in an the financial year ending Group NPR growth strategy, which includes evolving Snows improved group NPR per hl 31 March 2017. on an organic, constant positioning from that of a regional brand trend in the second half of the currency basis.
to a national one, re ecting the ambition and year.
Pro tability declined, In China, organic, constant growth of China.
More than 30% of CR Snows re ecting lower volumes and currency group NPR grew by 2% volumes are now in the premium segment, pricing pressures.
even though volume declined by led by variants Snow Brave the World and 3%.
Our associate, CR Snow, maintained Snow Draft.
The integration programme is now complete national leadership in a market that declined and has delivered both savings and capability during the second half of calendar 2014 due build ahead of expectations, with cumulative to an abnormally cold and wet summer peak annualised synergies of approximately A$210 period, especially in the central provinces of million by the end of this financial year and Hubei, Anhui and Jiangsu along the Yangtze Australians embrace Italian style Peroni Nastro Azzurro achieved 30% volume growth in Australia in the year, as demand for it and lower alcohol variant Peroni Leggera continued to rise.
Peroni now represents more than 8% of the countrys premium imported beer segment.
During the year, CUB kept Peronis pro le high with opinion formers and consumers with its sleek Stile Italiano website and sponsorship of the fashionable Portsea Polo meeting.
The brands association with the 2015 meeting, which attracts strong media coverage, delivered 36 million Peroni impressions across TV, print, radio and digital.
28 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report river.
A return to volume growth in the final quarter of our financial year re ected strong performances in the northeast and west, together with an improved trend in the key central region.
Group NPR per hl grew by 5% driven by the continued focus on premium brands and outlets led by Snow Draft and Snow Brave the World.
The Kingway acquisition has been fully integrated into the CR Snow production grid, combining distribution channels in four provinces and complementing the CR Snow portfolio of brands.
Authentic Australian brand rolls out nationwide Pro tability declined due to the costs CUB is building on the huge success of in February 2015, targets the contemporary associated with the integration of Kingway, regional lager Great Northern Original with the beer segment.
The Great Northern brand, the continued investment in marketing national rollout of a variant Great Northern which was named after CUBs first Queensland activities that focus on premium brands Super Crisp.
brewery and features the companys classic and occasions, and selling and promotional marlin logo, satis es growing consumer expenses which anticipated a more usual Great Northern Original became the fastestdesire for authenticity.
selling beer brand in Queensland after its 2010 launch, growing by 47% last year.
Great In India, group NPR on a constant currency Northern Super Crisp, which was launched basis grew by 6% with group NPR per hl growth of 5% driven by price increases taken across several states.
Pro tability declined re ecting the challenging operating Prosper environment resulting from changes in regulatory requirements and in ationary Water scarcity is a top priority for SABMiller input cost increases which exceeded price across the Asia Paci c region.
Yatala in realisation and state-constrained pricing.
Australia continues to lead the group as We have recognised an exceptional our most water ef cient brewery, using an impairment charge of US$313 million in average of just 2.5 hectolitres hl of water respect of our Indian business, primarily to make 1 hl of beer.
In India, our focus is re ecting our assessment of the impact of on partnering with others to tackle shared increasing regulatory and excise challenges water risks.
SABMiller has invested in the operating environment in India and the US$0.5 million to help tackle water risk in proposed partial introduction of a national Maharashtra, along with partners including goods and services tax GST which will not the International Finance Corporation.
apply to beer, so that GST on input costs is not expected to be recoverable.
Our beers are enjoyed by millions of consumers across the region but a minority drink alcohol irresponsibly, increasing the risks to themselves, their families and their communities.
In Australia, the hard-hitting DrinkWise social media campaign How to Drink Properly speaks directly to 18 to 24-year-olds to in uence them to drink responsibly.
The campaign aims to make Local barley for local beer binge drinking less socially acceptable among young drinkers, while encouraging In India, our Saanjhi Unnati Path to Progress those who drink moderately to continue programme supports more than 9,500 doing so.
smallholder farmers to grow malting barley and so access a new market, increase yields Find out more at and incomes, and improve environmental www.
The programme now provides 65% of our barley supply in India.
Read more about regional and country sustainability priorities and performance at www.
com sam SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 29 EUROPE Lager Soft drinks Where we operate volumes volume 43.6m hl 15.5m hl 1 1 5% 0% Signi cant business with production operations Associates Selling operations and major export markets NPR 3.1 hl water hl beer 2 US$4,398m 6% average 2 EBITA water use 2% US$700m across the region.
Drive superior topline growth through our brands: 75% Czech on-premise grew after several years of decline, supported by the introduction of Gambrinus unpasteurised: of fridges purchased in Signifi cant progress in core brands: Kozel and Radegast Europe are in the Czech Republic, Zubr and Lech in Poland.
30 30 SABMiller SABMiller plc plc An Ann nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 15 5 Strategic report Operations review Europe Innovation has remained a key priority and our Innovation has remained a key priority and our efforts have included core brand efforts have included core brand renovations renovations along with innovations focused on serving more consumers on more along with innovations focused on serving occasions.
Among the many activities were the launches of new radler variants and more consumers on more occasions.
avours in a number of markets, including Peroni Chill Lemon radler in Italy, and the national launch of Kingswood cider in the Czech Republic.
Performance has been Sue Clark boosted by enhanced focus on effective Managing Director, sales execution in the marketplace and SABMiller Europe further ef ciencies.
EBITA grew 6% on an organic, constant currency basis, and was in line with the prior year on a reported basis.
Reported EBITA margin improved by 50 bps underpinned by cost savings delivered as we optimise our operating model.
In the integrated Czech Republic and Slovakia business, group NPR was up by 4% on a constant currency basis with volume growth of 5% re ecting strong performance ahead of the market in both countries and in both the on-premise and off-premise channels.
Volume growth was driven by the In Europe, group NPR grew by 2% on an off-premise channel due to good execution organic, constant currency basis with group of effective promotions and assisted by NPR per hl growth of 1%.
On a reported two Easter trading periods occurring in this basis, group NPR was down 4% impacted financial year.
The premium segment grew by the weakening of European currencies strongly, boosted by the performance of against the US dollar.
Total beverage volumes Pilsner Urquell during the key occasions of Performance was boosted were up 1% with soft drinks volumes up 5% Easter and Christmas and by the continued and lager volumes level with the prior year.
growth of Kozel 11, while our core by enhanced focus on Growth in the region was delivered against a mainstream brand Gambrinus continued effective sales execution backdrop of continued economic uncertainty to decline.
Organic, constant Net currency Reported Reported acquisitions Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2014 and disposals translation growth 2015 % % Group NPR including share of associates US$m 4,574 281 105 4,398 2 4 1 EBITA US$m 703 42 39 700 6 EBITA margin % 15.4 15.9 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 43,590 5 43,595 Soft drinks 14,716 777 15,493 55 Total beverages 58,306 782 59,088 11 In 2015 before an exceptional charge of US$63 million being the groups share of Anadolu Efes impairment charge relating to its beer businesses in Russia and Ukraine 2014: US$11 million being capability programme costs.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 31 Strategic report Operations review Europe | | In Poland, volumes grew by 2%, marginally In Italy, group NPR declined by 1% on a Volume growth in a behind the market.
Group NPR declined by constant currency basis driven by a volume 2% on a constant currency basis re ecting decline of 1% re ecting particularly poor challenging market a sustained challenging pricing environment.
weather during the peak season and Channel dynamics have resulted in adverse the impact on consumer con dence of Strong local brands are helping mix with modern trade retailers and traditional continuing economic uncertainty.
These our Polish business, Kompania trade key accounts increasing their share of market dynamics impacted the performance Piwowarska, to capture growth.
Mainstream segment volumes of both the Peroni and Nastro Azzurro grew, driven by Zubr but partly offset brands, primarily in the on-premise channel, In the premium segment, by a decline in Tyskie.
Lech grew strongly, although this was partly offset by the stronger our speciality lager Ksia z ece bene ting from strategic repositioning performance of Peroni Chill Lemon radler.
increased volumes by 2%, along with reinvigorated marketing.
following a multi-layered marketing In Romania, group NPR was down 1% on campaign.
This involved Group NPR in the United Kingdom grew a constant currency basis with lower volumes introducing seasonal limited by 4% on a constant currency basis being offset by price increases and editions, building a stronger driven by the double digit volume reduced promotional support.
on-trade presence, and looking growth of Peroni Nastro Azzurro Volumes were down 2%, to strengthen the brands through increased rate of sale outperforming a declining connection and pairing with and distribution in key outlets market, with lower food.
In the mainstream segment, and assisted by good Timisoreana and Ursus 2% market leader Zubr gained volume summer weather, offset volumes partly offset by growth in group NPR market share.
This upswing was by a volume decline in the growth of Ciucas, which was on an organic, constant helped by a fresh and consistent Polish portfolio.
On 15 May supported by new packaging.
creative platform, an effective 2015 the group announced pricing strategy and improved it was to acquire 100% of Anadolu Efes group NPR in-store visibility.
Meantime Brewing Company Ltd, growth moderated in the full year a UK modern craft brewer.
We expect after a more challenging second half to complete the transaction in June 2015. year during which a decline in consumer con dence in Turkey suppressed soft drinks volumes while lager volumes continue to be impacted by the uncertain market conditions in Russia and Ukraine.
Pro tability bene ted from cost optimisation programmes.
An exceptional charge of US$63 million has been recognised, being the groups share of Anadolu Efes impairment charge in relation to its beer businesses in Russia and Ukraine.
32 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Tremendous tanks We are enhancing the perception of and demand for beer by showcasing the tank at the heart of the bar.
In parts of Europe, tanks have long been used to dispense beer.
We are now moving them into the spotlight by emphasising the taste of unpasteurised tank beer such as Pilsner Urquell, and in the year installed gleaming, branded tanks in selected outlets across Europe.
To enjoy tank beer, many consumers will travel miles, pay more and change brands.
Tanks are also enhancing the quality reputation of draught beer.
Prosper We continue to focus on improving resource Expanding the ef ciency across our breweries and value Peroni family chains in Europe.
Returnable bottles are in long-term decline in some European markets.
We are therefore devising new Birra Peroni is meeting the packaging solutions that meet changing changing tastes of Italian consumer needs while reducing our consumers and creating new environmental impact.
occasions for consumption with innovative brand extensions.
Europe leads the group globally in the purchase of HFC-free fridges.
We aim to To offer greater mealtime share lessons from Europe to help scale choice, in the year we introduced the use of HFC-free fridges in other regions, a larger, 50cl wine bottle for with the aim of being 100% HFC-free existing Peroni Gran Riserva buyers by 2020.
Sharing to save variants for special events and sharing: a pure malt Peroni Concerns about the effects of the harmful SABMillers diverse European product Gran Riserva extension, and a and irresponsible consumption of alcohol portfolio and diverse packaging formats gluten-free beer for the growing continue, and we remain committed to our makes improving carbon and water number of gluten-intolerant multi-stakeholder partnerships to address ef ciency particularly challenging.
To encourage social alcohol harm in the markets where we consumption outside mealtimes, operate.
Since 2007, SABMiller Europe has Our region-wide taskforce spearheaded we also launched Peroni Forte, an worked with the EU Alcohol and Health an energy and water ef ciency programme 8% ABV lager for after dinner.
This Forum to make voluntary commitments by sharing best practice and mentoring activity increased overall volumes on how we market our brands, and place ef ciency champions across our breweries.
and awareness and, in line with responsible drinking messages on our strategy, increased Peronis share products.
This year, we committed to list Collaboration has delivered signi cant of the premium segment.
ingredients and nutrition values for our results.
We have saved 45 million hl of water brands on our local websites.
This latest enough to ll 1,800 Olympic swimming commitment comes from our rm belief pools and 84,000 tonnes of CO2e that consumers have the right to be well equivalent to taking 17,200 small cars informed about our beers.
We are off the road since 2010. immensely proud of our products and the ingredients used to produce them.
com sam SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 33 NORTH AMERICA Where we operate Lager volumes 38.5m hl -2% Signi cant business with production operations Selling operations and major export markets Group NPR US$2,900m US$4,682m Spent with diverse 1 suppliers since 2008.
7% 0% EBITA US$858m 1 Organic, constant currency basis.
Landfi ll-free Drive superior topline growth through our brands: Redds grew volume by 36% the second largest fl avoured malt beverage in the above premium 7 8 segment: Seven of MillerCoors eight major Leinenkugels Summer Shandy is the largest breweries are now landfi ll-free, US seasonal craft beer.
with Milwaukee reaching this landmark in the year.
34 34 34 SABMiller S SABMiller ABMiller plc plc plc A An An nnua n nu ua alll R R Re e ep p por o or rt t t 2 2 20 0 01 1 15 5 5 Strategic report Operations review North America MillerCoors EBITA increased by 6% as the impact of lower volumes and increased marketing spend was more than offset by improved group NPR per hl and lower fi xed costs.
The North America segment includes within the growing above premium our 58% share of MillerCoors and 100% segment with both established brands of Miller Brewing International and our North and new offerings.
However, volume In line with strategy, American holding companies.
Total North declines in the premium light, premium MillerCoors expanded its America reported EBITA was 7% higher than regular and economy segments led to the prior year, driven by growth in MillerCoors.
a 2% decrease in both domestic sales brand portfolio in the growing to retailers STRs and domestic sales above premium segment.
In October 2014 we settled the litigation to wholesalers STWs.
in Canada with Molson Coors relating to the licence agreement for Miller trademark brands in Canada.
As a result of this settlement, the rights to distribute Miller Tom Long trademark brands in Canada reverted Chief Executive Of cer, to SABMiller from 1 April 2015.
MillerCoors MillerCoors For the year ended 31 March 2015, MillerCoors EBITA increased by 6% as the impact of lower volumes and increased marketing spend was more than offset by improved group NPR per hl and lower xed costs.
Group NPR was in line with the prior year and group NPR per hl grew by 3% as a result of rm pricing and favourable brand mix.
In line with its strategy, MillerCoors continued to expand its brand portfolio Organic, constant Net currency Reported Restated acquisitions Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2014 and disposals translation growth 2015 % % Group NPR including share of joint ventures US$m 4,665 1 18 4,682 1 EBITA US$m 804 54 858 77 EBITA margin % 17.2 18.3 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager excluding contract brewing 39,400 892 38,508 2 2 Soft drinks 40 40 11 Total beverages 39,440 892 38,548 2 2 MillerCoors volumes Lager excluding contract brewing 38,051 897 37,154 2 2 Sales to retailers STRs 37,846 n a n a 36,967 n a 2 As restated see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
In 2014, before exceptional charges of US$5 million being capability programme costs.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 35 Strategic report Operations review North America | | Fast-growing Premium light volumes were down low single contributed to the full year growth within the digits for the year, with similar declines for segment, although Miller Fortune declined fl avours both Coors Light and Miller Lite.
Although in the fourth quarter as it cycled its launch in volumes declined, Miller Lite grew share February 2014.
Growth within this segment MillerCoors has become market within the segment, which was largely was partially offset by double digit declines leader of the fastest-growing US attributed to the brand reverting back in strategically deprioritised brands, beer segment avoured malt to its original Lite packaging design, including Third Shift and Batch 19. beverages FMBs.
The premium regular segment While Miller High Life trends MillerCoors has captured 23% of volumes were down low single showed improvement over the FMB market in just over two digits with a double digit the course of the year, the years, helped by the success of 0% decline in Miller Genuine Draft, economy portfolio declined Redds and its Steel Reserve Alloy partly offset by low single digit mid-single digits driven Group NPR growth on Series, which meet increasing growth in Coors Banquet, primarily by high single digit an organic, constant demand for sweeter, fruitavoured which has maintained declines in both Keystone currency basis.
Redds, its premium momentum generated by Light and Milwaukees Best.
FMB, grew by 36% in the year to the introduction of the stubby become the quickest-expanding heritage bottle.
The higher cost of commodities FMB brand.
Innovation is widening and other brewery inputs as well as its appeal: the higher alcohol MillerCoors above premium brand portfolio the increased unit cost of premium, high Redds Wicked, for instance, grew mid-single digits for the year and gained margin brand innovations resulted in a low gained 53% of its sales in its share within the above premium segment single digit increase in input costs per hl.
first six months from wine and driven by both organic growth and new The business continued to strive for spirits.
Steel Reserve Alloy brand offerings.
Double digit growth from ef ciencies in its cost base, achieving cost Series, meanwhile, is the leading the Redds franchise enhanced MillerCoors savings in procurement and through brewery economy FMB.
position within the avoured malt beverage ef ciencies.
In addition, lower xed costs segment, while the Leinenkugels and were driven by a reduction in net employee Blue Moon franchises continued to grow.
bene ts and pay costs, partly re ecting In addition, brand innovations such as the organisational restructuring over the Miller Fortune and Smith & Forge Hard Cider course of the last two years.
36 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Prosper MillerCoors is nding new and innovative ways to build on its heritage of brewing high-quality beer more sustainably, recognising that with great beer comes great responsibility.
This years highlights included: breaking ground on the largest solar panel installation at any US brewery: expanding the agship Free Rides programme to five new cities, to provide consumers with free rides home: and achieving land ll-free status in seven of its eight major US breweries.
MillerCoors actively engages with womanand minority-owned businesses, as well as 513 veri ed small businesses as fide ned by the US Small Business Administration.
Since 2008, cumulative spending with Safe rides home diverse suppliers has totalled more than US$2,900 million.
Drink-driving is the number one US concern about alcohol misuse.
MillerCoors works MillerCoors also supports entrepreneurs with partners to educate consumers beyond its value chain.
In its second year, on how to get home safely after evening Miller Lite Tap the Future received 2,000 drinking, and provides free, safe rides.
entries as entrepreneurs competed for the chance to claim a piece of the US$400,000 In 2014, the business provided more prize pool.
than 1.5 million people with opportunities to take a safe journey home.
Read more about regional and country Read more at sustainability priorities and performance at www.
com sam Innovation in cider Innovation is driving MillerCoors momentum in cider, Americas fastest-growing alcohol segment.
US cider volumes have soared in the past five years, as consumers seek drinks that are sweeter, Iconic brand regains varied and gluten-free.
MillerCoors is meeting this demand with two momentum distinct but equally outstanding brands.
Smith & Forge, which is Miller Lite has growth in its positioned to appeal to men, has sights again after seven years become the number one cider of declining US sales.
with male drinkers in its launch year and is already the countrys This iconic MillerCoors brand third largest cider brand.
Crispin, sold 43 million more cans over meanwhile, is Americas leading a six month period than it did premium artisanal cider and grew in the same period in the prior by just over 10% as MillerCoors year.
The turnaround follows a extended distribution and powerful marketing campaign that encouraged mixology with celebrates the authenticity, quality other beverages.
and taste of the original low calorie beer.
Key to the campaign is the reintroduction of the famous white label used when Miller Lite and the light beer category was first launched in the mid-1970s.
One in three beers consumed in the USA is now a premium light beer.
