P rincipal risks We continue to evolve our risk management process and associated reporting activities.
The Directors have carried out an assessment of the principal risks The creation of the Global and Regional Risk Committees is seen as a facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business significant step in embedding consistent activities across the business, model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and these risks are enhancing the ability to respond, and support the move to a global further detailed below.
We continue to monitor the risk environment, operating model.
The membership of the Risk Committees reects and review the appropriateness of the principal risks to the business, and represents all relevant facets of the business, ensuring that risk and these are formally reviewed at the beginning of each year.
is considered and developed within the wider considerations of the business, and that market pressures and changes are considered At a global level we formally report against these principal risks on a in a timely manner.
quarterly basis, as well as escalated local and regional risks.
During 2015 we have enhanced our reporting activities, with the denition of clear Currently there are ten principal risks which we monitor and report appetite statements for each principal risk and identication of against at a global level.
The risks are arranged according to their supporting metrics which can be reported.
Risk dashboards have been alignment, seven are aligned to successful delivery of the Strategy revised to incorporate these changes.
In addition we have revised risks 1-7 below, and three are aligned operationally risks 8-10 below.
ourRisk Management Policy to simplify risk rating and facilitate the A number of measures are in place to manage and mitigate these risks, escalation of local risks.
This is further supported through the Global while other activities are in the process of being developed or deployed, and Regional Risk Commi#ees.
Moving forward we will further develop and are marked below as in progress.
our metric driven risk reporting.
The risk landscape continues to change as both the business and marketplace evolve.
The pace of change, and need for greater visibility across the organisation, continue to grow and the risk function and practices are developing to meet these challenges.
Principal Risk Risk Background Management and Mitigation 1. Business Model Transition Sage does not successfully Sage has historically operated as a federated set of Functional reporting for all support functions established to a manage the transition of its Operating Companies across multiple geographies, global level to allow consistency of direction, and removal of business to a global each with significant local autonomy.
any global localconicts operating model An approved global Business Model Transition Strategy, supported In order to avoid duplication of eort, drive greater by an overarching plan which details the goal, Primary strategic alignment: consistency and eciency in processes, and provide overall time plan, and scheduled adoption by countries clearer governance, Sage is moving to a new global Capacity for Growth operating model.
Clear governance around strategy and overarching plan through Executive Committee and programme steering committee This risk is an evolution from 2014.
During 2015, Identication of a programme authority lead to manage organisational and structural changes have been the transition successfully made, alongside planning for the wider transition, including governance.
Transition In progress: implementation will run through 2016.
Alignment of transition frameworks for each country region function which are integrated to the overarching plan, and approved by the programme steering committee Monitoring of implementation through the programme management oce The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 39 Principal risks continued Principal Risk Risk Background Management and Mitigation 2.
Licensing Model Transition Sage does not successfully Sage wishes to continue to shift its licensing New products are being oered on a subscription only basis move to a target model towards subscription, where customers pay An approvedlicensing model transition strategy is in place, subscription licensing a monthly charge to use a licence, and in doing so are with dened targets and timescales model, and adapt its entitled to upgrade to the most recent release.
A series of approved targets have been dened, which span customer approach to Subscription licensing is perceived as beneficial multiple years and support successful delivery of our Strategy reect the change to within the software industry for a variety of Ongoing monitoring and review of the approvedtargetsis taking this model reasons, including increased customer contact place at country, regional and global levels in order to proactively Primary strategic alignment: and predictability of cash ow.
Any transition manage the licence transition, and revenue gures process must, however, be controlled in order Customers for Life In progress: to manage potential impacts, including short Creation of further Customer Business Centres, with staged term revenue gures.
adoption of global products, to better manage on-going This risk is an evolution from 2014.
Through 2015, customer relationships and the sales cycle a dual approach has been followed to ensure achievement of revenue gures, while moving towards subscription.
In parallel to these activities, the first of a number of Customer Business Centres have been opened for global products, which co-locate teams digital marketing, sales, service operations enabling them to operate collaboratively and serve customers quickly and eciently.
Market Intelligence Sage does not understand Sage has focused resources and management A Marketing Operations group has been established or anticipate changes in the aention on successfully delivering revenue and across the organisation, which has overall responsibility external environment margin growth while at the same time maintaining for Market Intelligence including areas such as a broad product range.
This has been underpinned Annual completion of a global market intelligence survey, customer needs, emerging by local market intelligence.
to identify market opportunities market trends, competitor In order to develop a consolidated understanding Annual completion of a brand health survey to understand strategies and regulatory of its market and customer needs, Sage is developing customer perception of the Sage brand and its products legal requirements a global market intelligence capability.
In progress: Primary strategic alignment: Prioritisation of resources and eort on products with a lifecycle The risk was identied in 2015.
The initial focus status of Growth Customers for Life has been to develop appropriate structures which will enable competitive positioning and product Ongoing development of standard templates for use by development, and 2016 will see the introduction market intelligence managers to allow information capture to of further operational practices to support this.
be enhanced across countries, and reported on a periodic basis Winning in the Market With a growing emphasis on global products Denition of a feedback loop to allow continual renement of within Sage, this activity will become increasingly standard templates, ensuring they remain eective, and capture relevant in the successful development of Sages relevant information customer solutions.
40 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Principal Risk Risk Background Management and Mitigation 4.
Competitive Positioning and Product Development Sage is unable to clearly The competitive environment in which Sage operates A Global Marketing team has been established to oversee identify its approach to has seen significant developments in recent years competitive positioning and product development the market, and support with the emergence of new players and a shift to Product lifecycle classications have been created, and all it with strategies that delivering functionality via the cloud.
These new products have been assigned a classication of Heritage drive competitive players include venture capital funded organisations or Growth, to define whether research and development advantage, including whose primary goal is to attain market share resources may be expended on them product development irrespective of profit, and a number of US listed Governance has been established over the creation of companies with similar goals.
Cloud products and Primary strategic alignment: global products, to ensure eective prioritisation of resources digital sales and marketing strategies zero touch Accountability for the maintenance of documented strengths sales are reducing barriers to entry.
Winning in the Market and weaknesses has been dened, and for global products Sage must be able to translate market intelligence this resides with the Global Marketing Operations team into appropriate strategies that target attractive In progress: Capacity for Growth market segments with relevant products.
All Growth products must have their strengths and weaknesses Whilst Sage transitions towards global products, against competition documented, and the priority areas for a number of which have been launched, in the shortdevelopment identied to mid-term there remains the need to manage and Dened authorisation channels to control all research and evolve the local growth products in tandem with its development expenditure, and to ensure these resources are most longer-term aspirations.
eectively targeted This risk was identied in 2015.
Sage Brand Sage does not deliver clear Work continues towards building the global All countries must comply with Sages Brand Governance and and consistent branding to Sage brand following several years of acquisitions Brand Guidelines, which have been designed to execute the Sage the market around the world.
The Sage brand is currently Masterbrand Strategy.
Timeframes for compliance of all products well recognised and trusted by customers in are dened, and any exceptions must be approved through the Primary strategic alignment: many of its core markets, however, on a global scale Global Brand team inconsistency exists in brand awareness across One Sage Ongoing review of customer experience is performed certain territories.
Net Promoter Scores, and output reviewed across countries and products to identify variance A clear and consistent brand assists customers in identication of the values Sage stands for, and Where no specic brand guidance has been provided by provides uniformity of message to the market.
The the Global Brand team, a dened approval route is in place importance of such messaging is increasing with through the team, and approval must be obtained in advance the adoption of global products.
of publication In progress: Activity has continued during 2015 to both strengthen All branded assets must be uploaded to the Brand Library, the brand and drive greater consistency in messaging.
and any exceptions from brand guidelines reported to the This risk is an evolution from 2014.
Chief Marketing Ocer and Audit and Risk Committee 6.
Strategic Partnerships Sage fails to identify, build In the federated model, Sage countries operated A Partner Management team has been established to and maintain strategic in a semi-autonomous manner, with limited global oversee the selection and management of Strategic Partners relationships direction, or co-ordination, and relied on internal Denitions are in place to ensure clarity over what constitutes resource to go to market.
a Strategic Partner Primary strategic alignment: However, the market and Sages competitors have All contracts must comply with the Material Contracts policy, and Revolutionise Business become ever more agile, and specic resources be approved through legal harder to attract.
Inclusion of dened legal provisions is required.
Any variance from such provisions must be recorded as part of the formal contract As such, there are an increasing number of instances approval process where developing strategic partnerships may be of benefit to Sage.
Those instances where the use of All Strategic Partners are assigned an individual within the Partner strategic partners is permitted, and the governance Management team who is responsible for actively managing the around such engagement, needs to be controlled as relationship well as the on-going management of any eco-system.
In progress: In line with the business model transition and revised working This risk is an evolution from 2014. practices, a Strategic Partner Management policy is planned during 2016 to enhance the consistency of selection and on-boarding of all our Strategic Partners The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 41 Principal risks continued Principal Risk Risk Background Management and Mitigation 7.
Third Party Reliance Sage fails to adequately Sage oers a set of products and services to A global procurement function has been established to ensure understand and eectively customers, for which it will be held accountable key controls are applied in the selection and on-boarding manage the third party should problems occur.
Many key parts of Sages of third parties environment that supports service oerings to its customers are now delivered The business remains responsible for dening its needs its business using third parties, and while activities may be and requirements outsourced, the risks associated with their use Primary strategic alignment: The global procurement function supports the business with cannot be.
the selection of third parties and negotiation of contracts Revolutionise Business To allow risks to be managed within Sages appetite, Legal resources are used in contract negotiation this third party estate must be understood and Management review and control is applied through the eectively managed.
Delegation of Authority process, and appropriate approval This risk was identied in 2015.
As part of the is required before any expenditure can be authorised move to 'One Sage and the new global operating In progress: model, organisational and structural changes As part of thetransition to the global operating model, and have been made during 2015, designed to enhance through the Excellence in Governance initiative to support Sagesglobal approach to third party management.
this transition, a Third Party Lifecycle Governance Framework will be established during 2016 8.
Supporting Control Environment Sages underlying control Sage has historically grown through a process of Business requirements are dened across the business environment business acquisition.
Each acquisition has arrived with its New best in class systems have been installed, including processes and technology own control environment systems and processes, Salesforce CRM and Sages X3 General Ledger infrastructure do not including technology infrastructure.
Salesforce CRM has been installed for use within the new support the ecient Sage is moving to a new global operating Customer Business Centres as the primary CRM system to operation of the business model, and to allow this the control environment underpin their operation and expansion.
All new customers and do not support the systems, processes, technology infrastructure for Customer Business Centre supported products are control framework and applications must support the ecient being entered directly into these systems operation of the business through the timely In progress: provision of accurate and appropriate information.
X3 General Ledger has been installed both in Customer Business Centres and separately for wider General Ledger activities.
This risk is an evolution from 2014.
In scope systems have been identied, and a planned migration by Finance Operations will occur Any deviation from the migration plan must be approved through the Finance Implementation Steering Committee As part of business model transition activities and the establishment of revised ways of working, an Excellence in Governance initiative is being undertaken to ensure consistency and enhance eectiveness Expansion in scope of Customer Business Centre supported products is planned as part of a gradual move to global products 42 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Principal Risk Risk Background Management and Mitigation 9.
Information Management and Protection including cyber Sage fails to adequately During the period of acquisition many established Creation of a global OneIT function reporting to the global understand, manage and processes, whilst appropriate to smaller businesses, Chief Information Ocer, to support the operation of protect data did not develop in line with Sages growth.
'One Sage through common supporting IT infrastructure, practices and systems This risk is an evolution from 2014.
During 2015, A network of Information Security Ocers oversees compliance organisational and structural changes have been with the IT Controls Framework, which defines made to manage the risk and to transition to the the key controls which are required new ways of working.
Maintenance of formal certication schemes, such as PCI, across specic parts of the business, with internal and external validation of compliance On-going assurance activities are performed across the estate by Internal Auditagainst the IT Controls Framework.
Results are tracked and reported to the Audit and Risk Committee In progress: Global incident management procedures including rating of incidents and escalation, as required Excellence in Governance initiative being undertaken across revised ways of working and policies to enhance eectiveness 10.
Regulatory and Legal Framework Sage fails to understand Sage operates in an increasingly complex external All legal resources across Sage report directly to the global and eectively operate environment, while at the same time continuing to Legal Director within the legal and evolve its service oerings to the market.
Many of The legal function uses internal and external resources regulatory framework Sages activities and services are subject to legal to monitor planned and realised changes in legislation applying to its services and regulatory inuences, which continue to All product contracts are reviewed and approved through develop in parallel.
the global legal function It is therefore essential to monitor the evolving legal A suite of policies are in place to support key legislation, and regulatory environment, understand in a timely including Data Protection and anti-Bribery manner how this applies to the business, and take A Code of Ethics policy is in place across the business which appropriate steps to ensure compliance.
provides clarity over how colleagues are expected to behave.
On-line training is provided to support it, and to record levels of understanding A Group Whistleblowing policy and arrangements are in operation, to allow colleagues to raise issues without fear of recrimination, and to provide early oversight of issues In progress: Development and communication of the 'Sage Way' of working, and on-going drive towards a 100% compliance culture Developing the financial viability statement In developing the financial viability statement, it was determined that a five year period should be used, consistent with the period of the Groups strategic plan and reecting a typical life of on-premise products without upgrade.
Management reviewed the principal risks, and considered which of these risks might threaten the Groups viability.
It was determined that none of the individual risks would in isolation compromise the Groups viability, and so a number of dierent severe but plausible principal risk combinations were considered.
Having identied the severe but plausible risk combinations, a cross functional group of senior managers, including representatives from Finance, Risk, IT, Product Marketing and Legal, estimated the monetary impact of each scenario.
These impacts were based on similar examples in the public domain and internal estimates of remediation costs.
The impacts were modelled for both year one and year four of the forecast period to ensure that expected changes in the Groups product mix, through migration towards a greater proportion of cloud based products, did not adversely impact on the Groups viability.
As set out in the Audit and Risk Committees report on page 70, the Directors reviewed and discussed the process undertaken by management, and also reviewed the results of reverse stress testing performed to provide an illustration of the reduction in revenue that would be required to break the Groups covenants or exhaust all available cash.
The Directors financial viability statement is contained in the Directors Report on page 93.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 43
