Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Risks and uncertainties facing the business Identifying and managing our risks The risk management roles and responsibilities of the Board, its The Board is responsible for the Groups system of risk management Committees, and business management are set out below, and all and internal control.
Risk management is recognised as an integral ofthese responsibilities have been met during the year.
part of the Groups activities.
The Board determines the Groups appetite for risk in pursuit of strategic objectives, and the level of risk 1.
Board that can be taken by the Group and its operating companies.
Savills Responsibilities businesses worldwide are responsible for executing their activities in Approve the Groups strategy accordance with the risk appetite set by the Board, complemented Determine Group appetite for risk in achieving its strategic objectives by the Code of Conduct, Group policies and delegated authority limits.
Establish the Groups systems of risk management and internal control The Audit Committee supports the Board by monitoring risk and Risk is assessed across the Group using a systematic risk reviewing the effectiveness of Group internal controls, including management model covering both external and internal factors and systems to identify, assess, manage and monitor risks the potential impact and likelihood of those risks occurring.
Risk assessments are incorporated into risk registers at Group and Actions business level, which evolve to reflect the reduction increase in Receive regular reports on internal and external audit and other identified risks and the emergence of new risks.
Where it is assurance activities considered that a risk can be mitigated further to the benefit of the Receive regular risk updates from the businesses business, responsibilities are assigned and action plans are agreed.
Determine the nature and extent of the principal Group risks and assess the effectiveness of mitigating actions The Groups Risk team facilitates the risk assessment process with Annually review the effectiveness of risk management and internal Group and business unit management on behalf of the Board and control systems challenges risk findings and the internal control framework to ensure Approve Group Policies including the Group risk management policy that these are effective.
Group policies and delegated authority levels set by the Board provide the means by which risks are reviewed and 2.
Group Executive Board escalated to the appropriate level within the Group, up to and Responsibilities including the Board, for review and confirmation.
Strategic leadership of the Groups operations Ensure that the Groups risk management and other policies We have a clear framework for identifying and managing risk, both at areimplemented and embedded an operational and strategic level.
Our risk identification and Monitor that appropriate actions are taken to manage strategic mitigation processes have been designed to be appropriate to the risks and key risks arising within the risk appetite of the Board ever-changing environments in which we operate.
Consider emerging risks in the context of the Groups strategic objectives The following chart summarises our business risk management structure.
Group Risk Committee Monitor the application of risk appetite and the effectiveness of risk management processes.
The Group Risk Committee and BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE Board also considers the Groups overall risk appetite in the context of the negative impact that the Group can sustain plc BOARD Review and confirmation beforeit risks the Groups continued ability to trade Review and confirmation by the Board Actions Review of risk management and assurance activities and processes plc AUDIT COMMITTEE Process Risks and mitigation reviewed by Monthly quarterly finance and performance reviews Audit Committee after validation by the Group Risk Committee 3.
Subsidiary Executive Committees GROUP EXECUTIVE BOARD and Executive Boards Responsibilities Responsible for risk management and internal control systems within their regions businesses GROUP RISK COMMITTEE Ongoing review and control There is ongoing review of the risks Monitoring the discharge of their responsibilities by operating and the controls in place to mitigate companies these risks EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES Actions Review key risks and mitigation plans Review results of assurance activities GROUP RISK Review and assessment Escalate key risks to Group management and Group Executive Group Director of Risk & Internal orplc Boards Audit consolidates the operating companies, functional and HEADS OF HEADS OF Group risks to compile the 4.
Heads of the Group functions and operating companies GROUP OPERATING Groups key risks Responsibilities FUNCTIONS COMPANIES Maintain an effective system of risk management and internal Key risks: Key risks: Headsof Group Headsof operating control within their function operating company functions identify companies create Actions the key risks a register of their Regularly review operational, project, functional and strategic risks anddevelop top risks and mitigation actions mitigation actions Review mitigation plans Plan, execute and report on assurance activities as required by Roles and responsibilities region or Group The Board regularly reviews the Groups key risks and is supported Savills regularly reviews and enhances its risk management process in the discharge of this responsibility by various committees, and seeks advice from independent advisers where applicable.
specifically the Audit Committee and the Group Risk Committee.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 27 Risks and uncertainties facing the business continued Principal risks In summary, our principal risks are: The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal 1.
Economic country risks, particularly the risks facing the Company including in particular in 2015 those that impact of a global economic downturn would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or 2.
Achieving the right market positioning in liquidity.
Our consideration of the key risks and uncertainties relating response to the needs of our clients to the Groups operations, along with their potential impact and the 3.
Recruitment and retention of high-calibre staff mitigations in place, is set out below.
There may be other risks and 4.
Reputational and brand risk uncertainties besides those listed below which may also adversely 5.
Legal risk affect the Group and its performance.
More detail can be found in 6.
Failure or significant interruption to IT systems the Audit Committee Report on pages 49 to 54. causing disruption to client service 7. Business conduct 8.
Changes in the regulatory environment 9.
Acquisition integration risk Change from 2014 KEY RISK 1: ECONOMIC COUNTRY RISKS, PARTICULARLY THE IMPACT OF A GLOBAL ECONOMIC DOWNTURN Strategic objective: Geographic diversification Financial strength Description Mitigation Global market conditions are currently volatile, with economic The strength of Savills business and brand and the focus on uncertainty in some sectors and markets.
Group earnings and or clientservice.
ourfinancial condition could be adversely affected by these and other macroeconomic uncertainties.
Savills operates in a number Our strategy of diversifying our service offering and geographic ofcountries where the transactional business is the largest spread mitigates the impact on the business of economic downturns component and thereby increases the level of economic risk.
and weak market conditions in specific geographies, but these factors cannot entirely mitigate the overall risk to earnings.
To manage There is a currency risk from operating in a large number of countries.
these risks, we continually focus on our cost base and seek to improve operational efficiencies.
Contingency plans are in place to enable us to respond quickly to market information and economic trends.
Continual monitoring of market conditions and market changes against our Group strategy, supported by the reforecasting and reporting in all of our businesses, are key to our ability to respond rapidly to changes in our operating environment.
Our exposure to countries with economies which are currently weakis balanced by our business in more stable markets.
When considering new market entry we undertake due diligence including the impact assessment of political and economic issues in that particular country.
We manage currency risk in local operations through natural hedging and matching revenue and costs in the same currency.
Change from 2014 KEY RISK 2: ACHIEVING THE RIGHT MARKET POSITIONING IN RESPONSE TO THE NEEDS OF OUR CLIENTS Strategic objective: Business diversification Strength in residential and commercial markets Geographical diversification Commitment to clients Description Mitigation The markets in which we operate are highly competitive.
Competition To remain competitive in all markets, we continue to promote and could lead to a reduction in market share and or a decline in revenue.
differentiate our strengths whilst focusing on providing the quality Our focus is on retaining existing clients as well as engaging with ofservice that our clients require.
Our service offering continuously evolves and improves to meet the changing needs of our clients.
We continue to invest in the development of client relationships globally and associated systems to support our client service offering.
28 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Change from 2014 KEY RISK 3: RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION OF HIGH-CALIBRE STAFF Strategic objective: Financial strength Commitment to clients Description Mitigation We recognise that the future success of our business is dependent We continue to invest in the development of our people and invest in on attracting, developing, motivating and retaining people of the our training and development programmes across the businesses.
Our partnership style culture and profit sharing approach to remuneration is combined with selective use of share-based and other rewards to incentivise and retain our best people for the long-term benefit of the Group.
Change from 2014 KEY RISK 4: REPUTATIONAL AND BRAND RISK Strategic objective: Strength in residential and commercial markets Commitment to clients Description Mitigation Savills is a strong brand with an excellent reputation in the markets in We recognise that our brand strength is vital to maintaining market which we operate.
The Groups reputation could be damaged as a share in established and new markets.
A brand management result of negative media coverage.
We recognise the need to programme is in place to ensure the brands positioning and identity maintain this reputation by ensuring the quality of the service we is clearly and consistently promoted.
Our social media policy is provide.
supported by guidance and training as well as ongoing monitoring.
All external statements have to be appropriately approved.
We recognise that the quality of the service we offer is vital to maintaining the brand and we have in place policies, controls and processes to monitor the quality of our client service to support our programme of continuous improvement.
The Group has established corporate social responsibility programmes.
Change from 2014 KEY RISK 5: LEGAL RISK Strategic objective: Financial strength Commitment to clients Mitigation Description The Group has a range of policies in place including client Failure to fulfil our legal or contractual obligations to clients could acceptance, legal and regulatory compliance, procurement, subject the Group to action and or claims from clients.
The adverse contractor management and valuation.
outcome of such actions claims could negatively impact our reputation, financial condition and or the results of our businesses.
We have Best Practice groups policies, procedures and training For example: which are designed to mitigate against the riskof such actions in accepting client engagements, Group companies may claims being made and where such claims occur, tolimit liability, besubject to duty of care obligations.
Failure to satisfy these particularly in relation to consultancy services such asValuations.
obligations could result in claims being made against the Such policies are regularly reviewed.
relevantoperating company: in our Property Management business, we may be responsible for appointing third-party contractors that provide construction and The Group maintains professional indemnity insurance to respond engineering services.
Failure to discharge these responsibilities in toand mitigate the Groups financial exposure to such claims.
accordance with our obligations could result in claims being made against the operating companies: As described below, our strong emphasis on appropriate business in our Valuation Consultancy businesses, we can be subject conduct by all our employees, contractors and associates further toclaims alleging the over-valuation of properties.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 29 Risks and uncertainties facing the business continued Change from 2014 KEY RISK 6: FAILURE OR SIGNIFICANT INTERRUPTION TO OUR IT SYSTEMS CAUSING DISRUPTION TO CLIENT SERVICE Strategic objective: Financial strength Commitment to clients Description Mitigation Major failures in our IT systems may result in client service being Specific back-up and resilience requirements are built into our interrupted or data being lost corrupted causing damage to our systems.
Our critical infrastructure is set up so far as is reasonably reputation and consequential client and or revenue loss.
practical to prevent unauthorised access and reduce the likelihood and impact of a successful attack.
There is a risk that an attack on our infrastructure by a malicious individual or group could be successful and impact the availability Our data centres are accredited to international information ofcritical systems.
Business continuity and disaster recovery plans are in place to cover the residual risks that cannot be mitigated.
We are constantly reviewing our resilience to cyber security attacks due to the increasing threat.
Change from 2014 KEY RISK 7: BUSINESS CONDUCT Strategic objective: Business diversification Geographical diversification Commitment to clients Description Mitigation We operate in international markets that may present business conduct We have programmes to promote compliance with our Code of related risks involving, for example, fraud, bribery or corruption.
Conduct, particularly in areas of higher risk such as procurement.
Failure by the Group and its employees to observe the highest We have a zero tolerance approach to breaches of our standards of integrity and conduct in dealing with clients, suppliers Code of Conduct.
and other stakeholders could result in civil and or criminal penalties, regulatory sanction, debarring and or reputational damage.
Change from 2014 KEY RISK 8: CHANGES IN THE REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT Strategic objective: Commitment to clients Mitigation Description Our Group Policy Framework, which sets out our standards for We are required to meet a broad range of regulatory compliance professional, regulatory, statutory compliance and business conduct, requirements in each of the markets in which we operate.
For example: is reviewed regularly.
some of our operations have regulatory licences: in the UK, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA regulates the To support this Framework each business has its own regulatory conduct of Savills Capital Advisors and, both generally and in and statutory compliance resources who monitor regulatory relation to the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, developments and maintain the internal processes and controls Savills Investment Management, and the insurance intermediary required to fulfil our compliance obligations.
services provided to clients by Savills UK: our businesses are regulated by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS : Our compliance environment, at all levels, is subject to regular review Savills Investment Management entities are variously regulated bythe Bank of Italy, FCA in Japan, BaFin in Germany and CSSF by internal audit and external assurance providers.
inLuxembourg: various countries, corporate entities and individuals are subject tofinancial sanctions, which require continuous monitoring in response to global events.
Failure to satisfy regulatory compliance requirements may result in fines being imposed, adverse publicity, brand reputation damage and ultimately the withdrawal of regulatory approvals.
We also have a number of key statutory obligations including the protection of the health, safety and welfare of our staff and others affected by our activities.
Environmental reporting requirements place data gathering responsibilities on our business in common with other listed companies.
30 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
