16 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Serco faces many risks and The resulting principal risks Risk appetite uncertainties which we mitigate and are each classified as strategic, In 2016, the Executive Committee manage through risk management reputational, financial, operational, will undertake an exercise to processes see pages 97 to 102. legal or compliance.
They are assess the risk appetite for each The Group Risk Register sets described on the following pages, of the principal risks.
The risk out the principal risks facing the together with the relevant strategic appetite represents the nature Group and is set by the Executive business objectives, key risk and amount of risk that the Group Committee after taking into drivers: the Group-wide material is willing to accept and facilitates consideration the various divisional controls, which are explained in decision making as to the level of risk registers.
The Group Risk more detail on pages 26 to 29, resource that should be expended Register is reported to the Board which have been put in place to to mitigate the principal risks.
via the Corporate Responsibility mitigate the principal risks, and the Risk appetite statements are and Risk Committee.
mitigation actions to improve the being developed which will be effectiveness of the controls.
Following the completion of the reviewed and endorsed by the Strategic Review, a robust and The risks are considered within the Corporate Responsibility and Risk systematic assessment of the timeframe of three years which is Committee.
These statements will principal risks facing the Group the same time period that has been be used to define the risk tolerance was carried out.
These include used in the Viability Statement see levels throughout the business, the principal risks that would page 30.
The Viability Statement and along with our values, Code threaten the execution of Sercos takes into account the principal of Conduct and mandatory ethics strategy, business model, risks in its assessment.
training will provide clarity on the future performance, solvency risk culture of the Group.
Strategic and reputational risks Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Failure to attract and retain Good leadership underpins our ability Material controls: leaders fit for the future to develop and deliver the services Serco Management System we provide to customers.
The ability Serco Leadership Model Impact on business objectives: to plan for management succession Centres of Excellence and to attract, train and retain good Winning good business Appropriately skilled leaders and other employees is a key Executing brilliantly trained resources driver for our success.
A place people are proud to work Current mitigation actions: Failure to maintain a robust framework Profitable and sustainable of people processes, systems and Implementation of Serco People are at the core of our business controls to enable attraction, selection, Leadership Model at all levels of the organisation.
development and retention of the Implementation of talent and Our success depends on the appropriate calibre of employees and succession processes continued service and performance leaders would compromise our ability Implementation of a robust framework of highly qualified and experienced to execute our strategy and achieve of people processes and procedures operational management and business our business objectives.
This would that supports the acquisition and development teams and their leaders.
adversely affect employee pride in the retention of the right calibre of staff organisation and prevent Serco from If our leaders are not able to meet the becoming an employer of choice for Future actions: needs of the business, this could impact talented people.
Continued improvements to our our integrity, brand and reputation, and Leadership Model could have a material adverse impact Employee engagement is also critical on our financial condition and results of Resourcing of the Centres of to our success: engaged employees operations affecting the prospects of Excellence and functions with the deliver better service to our customers, the business.
intent to support the delivery of the are more productive, and want to stay Group strategy with us.
Failure to attract, motivate and engage employees can create a Improvements to our talent decline in morale and an increase in pooling capability staff turnover, which may adversely Improvements to the on boarding affect our ability to win new and retain and induction processes and systems existing contracts owing to a lack of Improvements to shortand longappropriate skills and a reduction in term incentive arrangements customer satisfaction.
Establishment of our Leadership Academy Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties 17 Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Failure to transform and Delivery of the Group strategy could Material controls: deliver the Group strategy be placed at risk because of too Group strategy many competing programmes with Impact on business objectives: Transformation programme design complex interdependencies, poor Winning good business Governance structure programme and solution design, Executing brilliantly Standardised Divisional Performance poor integration across activities Reviews Profitable and sustainable leading to operational inefficiency or incompatibility, or in the failure to Current mitigation actions: We have put in place transformation achieve lasting cultural change due programmes to achieve lasting change Establishment of a central to failure of buy-in or the setting of in the way Serco operates.
Concurrent Programme Management Office unrealistic or unclear expectations.
programmes are being delivered PMO to monitor and coordinate in Finance, IT, HR, Procurement, Affordability may place a constraint on the programmes Contract Management and Business resources, which could jeopardise or Implementation of governance for Development.
delay the transformation of the Group.
PMO reports delivery constraints to the Successful delivery of these in an Note: The risk drivers and controls Group Chief Operating Officer and integrated fashion will drive greater associated with achieving the the Executive Committee standardisation, achieve critical objectives of the Group strategy are efficiencies and cost reductions, covered under other principal risk, Future actions: improve transparency and reinforce for example the risk Failure to grow Coordination of a communication continuous improvement in our profitably reflects the risk associated strategy to engage all individuals in operational delivery.
with failing to maintain a healthy the business so that they buy into pipeline of new contracts.
The risk the longer-term goals of the Group of failure to transform and deliver Ongoing review of Group strategy the Group strategy focuses on the and internal delivery structures to delivery of the Group transformation ensure Serco is set to excel in its programmes.
chosen markets and sectors Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 18 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Strategic and reputational risks continued Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Failure to build our reputation or act Central to building our reputation Material controls: with integrity are two key drivers our operational Our Values and Code of Conduct performance and our behaviour.
Impact on business objectives: Assurance three lines of defence Winning good business A number of factors can influence our Serco Management System ability to mitigate this risk effectively, Executing brilliantly Contract legal review and including: how we effectively manage documentation of Service A place people are our operational, safety and financial Delivery Requirements proud to work risks: how we ensure compliance with Standardised Divisional Profitable and sustainable contractual, legal and regulatory Performance Reviews requirements: how we ensure that Falling below our expected high Appropriately skilled and those who work for us behave with standards with respect to operational trained resources integrity and in an ethical manner: how performance and our behaviour will Business continuity, disaster we continually manage our reputation negatively impact our reputation with recovery, crisis management and stakeholder relationships: and how customers and other stakeholders.
and communication plans we ensure that we respond to incidents Operating effectively but without in a transparent and truthful manner.
integrity will generate mistrust and Current mitigation actions: scrutiny: conversely, acting with Enhancement of policies on business The critical area of risk for us is where integrity but operating ineffectively standards and ethics, including antioperational weakness or failure and will raise uncertainty in our ability to bribery and corruption, protection of or unethical behaviour intersects with sustain and grow our business.
human rights, sanctions, adherence a highly charged political environment to competition law, avoidance of resulting in a significant negative Both these are key to our reputation, money-laundering, conflicts of impact on the Groups reputation.
failing on either one could therefore interest, and employment of significantly impact the economic value ex-government officials of our business, increase the risk of regulatory intervention, and impact on Provision of mandatory ethics our ability to attract and retain talent.
training to make it clear that Serco does not engage in and will not tolerate unethical behaviour Provision of guidance and tools on how our people can avoid this risk Embedding of ethical and human rights reviews in our bidding process Implementation of processes to monitor and react to emerging issues and developed divisional contingency communication plans Implementation of tactical programmes centred on effective reactive responses to operational issues and proactive customer and stakeholder engagement programmes Future actions: Continue to strengthen procedures on due diligence of third parties and ongoing monitoring of those relationships Our Values have been refreshed and will be communicated in 2016 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties 19 Financial risks Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Failure to grow profitably The sustainability of our existing Material controls: and future business with governments Impact on business objectives: Group strategy market sectors is dependent on a favourable policy and geographical regions Winning good business of private sector provision of Centres of Excellence Profitable and sustainable public services.
Serco Management System We depend heavily on large contracts Our government customers are Business Lifecycle Gates Process with a relatively limited number of affected by financial, regulatory and Appropriately skilled major government customers and political constraints or policy changes.
trained resources other public sector bodies and A substantial part of our business is, Standardised Divisional agencies for a substantial proportion therefore, linked to changes in the Performance Reviews of our revenue.
global economy, fiscal and monetary Contract legal review and policy, political stability, political If such customers decrease the amount documentation of service delivery leadership, budget priorities, and of business they outsource to us for any requirements the perception and attitude of reason, or if the relationship with such governments and the wider public Current mitigation actions: customers were to deteriorate, or we to outsourcing.
These could result in sustained damage to our reputation, or Set up Centres of Excellence to decisions not to outsource services we were subject to negative publicity, critically review the markets and or delays in placing work which might then we could lose business across geographies we operate in globally adversely impact our pipeline.
our customer base and face significant and develop compelling value economic damage.
Such damage propositions in each market Where a healthy pipeline of new could also include losing renewals business exists, Serco needs to Implemented improved bid and extensions of existing contracts.
management procedures Failure to have the critical skills and Strengthened the criteria, Shortly after this report is published, references, a value proposition processes and level of scrutiny for the UK will hold a referendum on that customers will find compelling managements review of all bids continued membership of the EU.
We and a risk appetite appropriate for and rebids, and ensured stronger have contracts worth around 130m a the markets in which we compete risk management earlier in the bid year with European institutions such will put Serco at a disadvantage, process to help identify potential as the European Commission and the and put the sustainable growth onerous performance criteria or European Space Agency, and it is part necessary in our business at risk.
contract terms, and transition of the strategy to build the business In addition, failure to execute our and operational risks, in advance we do with European institutions.
We bids in a professional manner by not believe that if Britain left the EU, it Continued to invest in appointing understanding the strategic needs would be more difficult for us to win EU high calibre people for our key bids, of a client, or by mispricing bids, Government contracts, and we regard and training our bidding teams to developing unworkable solutions, this as a risk to the business.
improve competency misunderstanding risks and other and performance bidding failures will also prevent us from achieving our growth ambitions.
Future actions: Implement regular pipeline and market reviews Embed Centres of Excellence and review sector drivers, market propositions and resource allocations Review of Business Development processes, capability and resourcing Review governance cycle to ensure lessons learned are embedded Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 20 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Financial risks continued Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Financial control and There are a number of critical Material controls: finance IT systems failure elements driving the risk of financial Standardised finance systems, control and finance IT systems failure.
Impact on business objectives: processes and controls, and These include: a finance governance reporting Executing brilliantly structure that sets the right tone Group strategy Finance Profitable and sustainable from the top: adequate financial Transformation Programme A place where people are proud controls, including access controls to Serco Management System to work IT systems, which prevent instances of Business Lifecycle Gates Process sabotage, fraud and error: the design Strong financial systems and controls and subsequent availability of critical Appropriately skilled are critical to the Groups success and financial IT systems: and the risk of trained resources underpin many key aspects of our information security breaches see Standardised Divisional Performance business, from transaction processing major information security breach Reviews to both internal and external reporting.
Contract legal review and Financial control failure or prolonged documentation of Service Delivery Serco must communicate a clear loss of financial IT systems may Requirements Group Finance strategy supported by result in: an inability to accurately Business continuity, disaster robust finance policies and standards report timely financial results and recovery, crisis management and that are embedded consistently meet contractual financial reporting communication plans throughout the Group.
obligations: a heightened risk of Assurance three lines of defence error and fraud: poor quality data The risk of financial control and IT security infrastructure, processes leading to poor business decisions systems IT failure is largely driven by and controls and an inability to forecast accurately: inadequate controls and processes.
and an inability to make critical If these are poorly designed and Current mitigation actions: financial transactions that would complex, they may lead to potential Embarked upon a major finance lead to financial instability, potential inaccuracies, fraudulent behaviour transformation programme to business losses and negative and inefficient use of resources.
strengthen the financial control reputationalimpact.
environment and to transform The design of financial systems and finance as a whole, with the goal of access controls should ensure that key implementing standard processes financial processes and systems are and data hierarchies and common adequately protected from sabotage, reporting language fraud and error, and that instances of critical financial systems or locations Updated the Groups finance not being available at critical times for strategy and policies prolonged periods is minimised.
Roll out of the Serco Finance Academy to articulate the future direction of finance and set expectations Updated the delegated authorities matrix Reshaped the design of financial systems and access controls Strengthened the finance team and developed of a new Finance Compliance Assurance programme Future actions: Finance transformation programme will continue to address the Groups processes, targeting the improved effectiveness of its shared service operation Review of contingency plans in place, including data recovery procedures and business continuity plans Create of a Corporate Shared Services Crisis Management Team and Business Continuity Plan Ensure regular testing of back-up systems Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties 21 Operational risks Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Major information security breach This is a heightened risk, particularly with Material controls: respect to government contracts, due to Impact on business objectives: Serco Management System the sensitive and confidential nature of Governance structure Winning good business government data that we handle.
IT security infrastructure, process Executing brilliantly We collect and retain confidential and controls Profitable and sustainable information in computer systems Business Lifecycle Gates Process We and our appointed third party regarding our business dealings and Business continuity, disaster service providers and sub-contractors those of our customers, service endrecovery, crisis management and are vulnerable to a major information users and suppliers.
We provide high communication plans security breach resulting in the loss or profile services, which adds to our Appropriately skilled compromise of sensitive information or attractiveness as a potential target.
trained resources wilful damage resulting in loss of service.
The threats facing sensitive information Current mitigation actions: A major information security breach managed by the Group have increased Implemented information security could have a significant negative impact with malicious and high profile policies and standards on our reputation and on the security of attacks against major brands around our customers.
This impact could result Implementation of Cyber Defence the globe by well-known hacktivist in the loss of new or existing business Programme groups.
Alongside this threat is the by disqualification from future work, more insidious and low profile attack Attainment of Cyber Essentials Plus contract termination and heavy financial instigated by certain foreign bodies and CES certification in the UK penalties causing a negative impact on their proxies to obtain information for Mandatory security awareness training our strategic objectives.
and security awareness campaigns Internal and external vulnerability Such breaches are costly to rectify The secure processing, maintenance scanning, risk and security impact and could dilute shareholder returns and transmission of information, and assessments, and third-party and result in criminal or civil action: compliance with restrictions on the due diligence assessment and contract and business external handling of sensitive information penetration testing accreditations being withdrawn: and including personal and customer significant media scrutiny, all of which information is critical to our operations.
Implemented Computer Security could materially adversely affect the Incident Response teams business, financial condition, results Future actions: of operations and prospects.
Continued investment in Cyber Defence Programme to provide: Better visibility, monitoring and control of our security infrastructure A Global Security Operations Centre equipped with security software and tools to monitor network and systems, and to prioritise, remediate and repel attacks and then report and manage response on a Groupwide basis Feedback and monitoring of activities to drive user awareness and behaviour Enhanced awareness training to key personnel globally Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 22 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Operational risks continued Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Catastrophic event Some of our operations are particularly Material controls: high-risk: these include nuclear Impact on business objectives: Group strategy operations, aviation, rail, marine and Safety management systems Winning good business custodial services.
Although these Serco Management System SMS Executing brilliantly are highly regulated, these carry Business Lifecycle Gates Process A place people are proud to work inherent significant health, safety and environmental HSE risks, and the Governance structure Due to the nature of the services Group is exposed to the risk of material Business continuity, disaster that the Group provides, many of our losses, liabilities and reputational recovery, crisis management operations, if not properly managed, damage from a catastrophic event, for and communication plans entail the risk of significant harm to example a major incident or accident.
Appropriately skilled employees, third parties, members trained resources of the public or the environment.
A number of factors may influence Contract legal review and this risk, including: capability and In the event that such a catastrophic documentation of service experience in delivering services in event is found or perceived to be delivery requirements high-risk sectors: an organisational caused by the negligence of the Assurance three lines of defence culture that prioritises HSE Group, this could result in claims management: robustness of safety Our Values and Code of Conduct for personal injury, wrongful death management to support safety critical Insurance or property damage by customers, industries: ability to assess, prepare subcontractors, governments, Current mitigation actions: for and manage safety requirements: employees or members of the public, and the impact of external factors Implementation of HSE strategy which could lead to the payment for example regulatory change, war, with clearly defined objectives and of extensive damages and result in terrorist act : and robustness performance targets and safety significant adverse publicity of business continuity plans and oversight structures and governance and reputational harm.
Policies, systems and procedures Certain events, including those arising embedded in the SMS as a result of third party acts such as Implementation of competency acts of terrorism or war, are not within framework and mandatory the Groups control, but may still result training programmes in losses and significant impact on External and internal audits to customers and the public.
confirm the effectiveness of these controls Prolonged disruption to service delivery due to an ineffective response Future actions: to catastrophic events will adversely Regular review of processes and impact the Groups reputation.
Such assurance of the controls to ensure adverse publicity and reputational continuous improvement harm could lead to loss of business.
Review and update of crisis management plans Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties 23 Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Misreporting of performance The reporting of operational Material controls: performance and its accuracy is an Impact on business objectives: Serco Management System inherent risk that is increased due Our Values and Code of Conduct Winning good business to the large number of employees, Business Lifecycle Gates Process Executing brilliantly geographical diversity and the Contract legal review and A place people are proud to work diversity of the operations that we run.
documentation of service delivery There may be incidents of employees As a result, we are exposed to requirements not complying with the Groups reputational and financial risks Assurance three lines of defence policies, which might result, for associated with employee errors, Appropriately skilled example, in accounting irregularities system errors, misunderstanding of trained resources or accounting misstatements, and requirements, inadequate quality of failures in the accurate monitoring and service provision and deliberate acts of Current mitigation actions: reporting of contract performance.
Following allegations in 2013, in This may result in inaccurate relation to the Companys prisoner performance and billing information escort and electronic monitoring being provided to Serco management, contracts with the Ministry of our customers and other stakeholders.
Justice, that the Group had overcharged the UK Government If the misreporting is deliberate, it as a result of misreporting, the may constitute fraud, and the Group Group entered into a process may be subject to litigation, inquiries of corporate renewal designed or investigations that could divert to mitigate the underlying risks management time and resources, and of misreporting.
Through the result in penalties, fines, sanctions, Corporate Renewal Programme, variation or revocation of permissions Group-wide controls that mitigate and authorisations, suspension or this risk are being implemented debarment from doing business with and are being embedded.
measures were introduced to Accidental or deliberate misreporting reinforce the importance of data of operational, regulatory and financial integrity and factual reporting down performance, both internally and to the individual level, and diminish externally, would result in reputational the risks in interpretation and damage, loss of goodwill or contracts.
Future actions: Contract management obligation mapping process to be implemented and used by all material contracts Compliance assurance programme to include review of data integrity compliance Review of annual performance review process to ensure incentives are aligned with our Values Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 24 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Legal and compliance risks Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Contract non-compliance and There are a number of critical elements Material controls: contract non-performance driving the risk of contractual nonSerco Management System SMS compliance and non-performance, Impact on business objectives: Our Values and Code of Conduct these include: failing to negotiate Winning good business Assurance three lines of defence service levels and contract provisions Executing brilliantly Business Lifecycle Gates Process that are appropriate for the level of Profitable and sustainable reward: misunderstanding and or not Contract legal review and complying with contractual obligations, documentation of Service Delivery Our success depends on our ability to changes of scope, or incorrectly Requirements win and successfully deliver contracts evaluating contractual assets: failure Appropriately skilled that balance risk and reward.
If we to properly manage contractual and trained resources fail to negotiate performance criteria operational risks: having insufficient Standardised Divisional and contract provisions that can be transparency of performance and lack Performance Reviews DPR delivered at the right price, or we do of capability systems and people not fully understand and mitigate Current mitigation actions: to continually deliver against agreed the risks involved, or we do not put service levels: and failure of subRevision of Group policies and in place appropriate capabilities contractors and other suppliers in the governance for bidding, transition, required to deliver against our performance of their obligations.
contract management, risk contractual obligations, contracts that management and compliance we win are more likely to suffer from Contracted services are delivered Implementation of a new poor performance and may result in through direct delivery of services, Compliance Assurance Programme compliance challenges.
through the use of sub-contractors, to monitor compliance of or through joint venture consortium Not meeting our contractual contracts with respect to the SMS partners.
As a result, these drivers obligations through either nonrequirements apply to us as well as our subcompliance with contractual Roll-out of SMS self-assessment contractors or consortium partners, requirements and or failure to questionnaires to check compliance where they do not have the right meet agreed service levels may against SMS requirements expertise, tools and resources to result in significant financial or other manage and monitor compliance Business lifecycle gates process penalties being levied, and in extreme with contract obligations and updated to include a requirement circumstances, the termination of a expectations adequately.
for make versus buy decisions contract with related compensation i. e. hire of staff versus use of arrangements, which could extend These drivers span the full business sub-contractors to regulatory or other investigations.
lifecycle, including the bidding, Targeted investment in the Apart from financial detriment, such transformation and operational phase recruitment and training of staff to failures could adversely affect our through to contract close, and can improve the capability of bid and reputation and our ability to win result from insufficient discipline contract management staff.
with respect to the development, training provides contract managers implementation and adherence to with awareness of contract corporate business processes, and management requirements and inadequate programme governance.
the SMS requirements Trained key staff on the new risk management life cycle processes Roll-out of standardised DPRs Future actions: Currently implementing the contract management obligation mapping process across the Group.
This will be used to document and track all material contractual obligations across all contracts globally Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties 25 Risk Key risk drivers Mitigation Material legal and regulatory As a government contractor, the Group is subject to a Material controls: compliance failure greater risk of investigation, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, Serco Management System whistle-blower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities Impact on business objectives: Assurance three lines of defence than companies with exclusively commercial customers.
Winning good business Business Lifecycle Gates Process As we have disclosed before, we are under investigation Executing brilliantly Contract legal review and by the Serious Fraud Office.
In November 2013, the UKs documentation of Service Delivery A place people are proud to work Serious Fraud Office announced that it had opened an Requirements Profitable and sustainable investigation, which remains ongoing, into our Groups Appropriately skilled Electronic Monitoring Contract.
We are cooperating fully Operating across different sectors trained resources with the Serious Fraud Offices investigation but it is not and geographies and working with Standardised DPRs possible to predict the outcome.
However, in the event that national and local governments, public the Serious Fraud Office decides to prosecute, the range of sector bodies and agencies, and Current mitigation actions: possible adverse outcomes is any one or a combination of government-regulated customers, Improvements to the capability of the following: the Group is required to comply with the organisation to interpret and a complex and ever changing legal implement these requirements i t hat the Serious Fraud Office prosecutes the individuals and regulatory environment.
Failing to correctly including accessible legal and or the Serco Group entities involved - which may comply materially with these laws and expertise, subject matter experts result in the individuals or entities involved defending regulations may cause significant loss and knowledgeable staff and clear the action successfully: or the individuals and the entities to the Company.
policies and procedures on how involved being convicted, which may result in significant we manage our legal and financial penalties, an impact on existing contracts with Legal proceedings including class regulatory requirements the UK Government and Serco being subject to a period actions may be costly and if they are Update to the business lifecycle gate of discretionary debarment from future contracts with UK not determined in the Groups favour, process to include a requirement to Government entities: or may divert managements attention identify the key material legal and away from the running of the business.
ii t hat the Serious Fraud Office and the relevant Serco regulatory requirements, and gain Losses or financial penalties resulting Group entities enter into a deferred prosecution legal sign-off by contract and legal from any current or threatened legal agreement DPA which may result in significant financial and contracts teams augmented by actions may have a material adverse penalties and a period of discretionary debarment from external legal counsel as appropriate effect on the Groups financial future contracts with UK Government entities.
condition, results of operations Identification of policy owners and and cash flows.
subject matter experts responsible Such debarment would be discretionary in the sense that for the identification and tracking of a contracting authority may consider it not to be relevant new and existing requirements to a given bid or rebid or that Serco has provided sufficient evidence that it has addressed any issues identified in a DPA, Staff training on key material legal but would also in any event be limited in time under the terms and regulatory requirements of the Public Contract Regulations 2015.
Future actions: Upon any such conviction or DPA, the amount of additional A number of controls are currently being work given to the Group by the UK Government may be put in place to increase our ability to reduced, and the Group may be subject to enhanced scrutiny mitigate this risk these include: with respect to its other contracts with the UK Government.
Review of mechanisms for the It is possible that further actions beyond those being identification and management of implemented under the Corporate Renewal Programme may key material legal and regulatory need to be taken by us under the terms of any DPA.
requirements Development of policy and If the Group faces any criminal convictions, debarment guidelines on management of consequences or enters into a DPA, any such outcome could key material legal and regulatory result in significant fines and have a material adverse impact requirements on the Groups ability to contract with the UK Government and its reputation which would, in turn, materially adversely Implementation of Contract affect its business, financial condition, results of operations Management App CMA used to and prospects.
document and track all material contractual regulatory requirements In addition, a criminal conviction of a Serco entity or of one and seek to ensure our requirements or more of the Groups current or former employees would are met at all stages of the contract in certain circumstances allow the Ministry of Justice to lifecycle including contract exit re-open the 64.3m settlement agreed in respect of certain issues arising under the Electronic Monitoring Contract.
In those limited circumstances, the UK Government may seek additional payments from Serco.
We will continue to cooperate with the Serious Fraud Offices investigation.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 26 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Material Controls defined as the Group-wide controls implemented across the Group to mitigate the principal risks.
Appropriately skilled We continue to invest in appointing high calibre people for our bids and our trained resources contracts, providing training to improve competency and performance.
The recruitment process uses Success Profiles that provide a global template for specifying and presenting the requirements of a job role and person specification, making it easier to record and interpret role requirements during each stage of the sourcing and selection process.
Where appropriate, training is provided to inform employees and provide the necessary knowledge and skills to understand and deliver our commitments.
Training needs are analysed and reviewed periodically to ensure training and skills remain up to date and staff are aware and knowledgeable in best practice approaches to their work.
Training is provided as a series of learning modules depending on the grade of the employee within the organisation, and specialist training, provided depending on the role.
Assurance three The Serco Management System SMS standards specify the controls with clear lines of defence definition of those responsible for ensuring compliance.
To provide assurance that these controls are implemented and effective, we have implemented the three lines of defence, i. e. the business, management assurance and audit.
At the business level, an SMS self-assessment tool is provided to enable managers to assess their compliance with the SMS controls, and plan actions to close gaps.
A programme of management assurance then provides comfort that the divisions and functions are managing risks effectively and in compliance with the SMS.
Contract reviews are carried out on a periodic basis at contract, business unit and divisional levels so as to ensure greater visibility of contractual performance issues.
Operational improvement plans are then updated to reflect the results of these reviews and ensure the capability of staff and systems remains fit for purpose to ensure all contractual obligations continue to be met.
Internal Audit is the third line of defence and provides an independent review sometimes carried out by independent external parties of the design and operating effectiveness of controls in place to manage key risks, as well as feedback on risk management and governance processes.
Business continuity, All Serco divisions are required to have crisis, business continuity and or disaster disaster recovery and recovery plans that describe the actions to be taken to address crisis situations crisis management and the loss or unavailability of physical, personnel and or information assets.
plans Development of the plans is prioritised by risk exposure and other relevant requirements including high risk or high continuity dependency, contractual, regulatory or legal requirements.
Business Lifecycle Application of the Business Lifecycle Gates Process is mandatory for all bids and Gates Process contracts.
The Gate Sign-off checklists detail the specific sign-off requirements from Gate 0 to Gate 9.
To pass through each Gate, the Business Lifecycle Review Team BLRT confirms that the requirements of each relevant SMS Standards have been met and every activity has been completed to the necessary standard.
In addition to the BLRT, all bids and contracts are required to carry out independent reviews such as Black Hats and Gate Reviews to provide an appropriate standard of assurance and governance across the business.
One of the gate requirements is the development of a contract business plan, which includes the financial budget, defined deliverables, success measures and key milestones: delivery and progress is monitored and reported against the business plan, with monthly contract reviews with the Client.
In addition, a formal Gate 8 Service Delivery, Transformation and Benefits Realisation Review is required to internally review and agree that the contract is delivering its business plan.
Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties 27 Centres of Excellence To support the delivery of the Group strategy, Centres of Excellence CoEs have been set up with the objective of critically reviewing the markets and geographies we operate in globally, our sales propositions and the resources required to be successful.
The CoEs develop a compelling value proposition in each market so as to develop a sufficiently robust pipeline of new business.
Contract legal review Operational teams are required to understand and document all service delivery and documentation requirements, including customer, contractual, regulatory or internal Serco of service delivery requirements.
Each operating contract is required to maintain a clear summary of requirements current contractual requirements, prepared by the contracts legal team.
Changes to operating contracts are required to be reviewed, approved by the customer, documented, recorded and stored, managed and maintained by the divisional contract legal team.
We are currently implementing the Contract Management Application CMA across the Group: this will be used to document and track all material obligations including material contractual and regulatory obligations across all material contracts globally.
Governance structure Our governance structure clearly defines roles and responsibilities at Board level and below to ensure that decisions throughout the organisation are soundly based and risks are appropriately controlled and monitored.
The Board is responsible, among other matters for, the Group vision and strategy: annual financial and operating plans: effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management.
Key Board responsibilities are referred to by the Board committees.
The Executive Committee reviews risks, internal control and business assurance to ensure they are effectively managed and reviewed.
Our processes of business review are intended to ensure that we meet customer expectations, regulatory requirements and performance criteria.
The effectiveness of these processes is the focus of the Corporate Renewal Programme: the implementation of which is overseen by the Board Oversight Committee, which continues to monitor the embedding of the policies and procedures.
Divisional Executive Management Teams ensure appropriate governance and oversight of all aspects of staff, operational, financial, business development, customer relations, risk management, ethics and strategic performance of the Division.
The Investment Committee provides governance for large or high risk bids, re-bids, acquisitions, disposals and strategic investments that are outside the delegated approval authority of the divisions.
A Global Information Assurance Board provides security leadership and oversight and Enterprise Architecture Boards ensure systems and information security controls are fit for purpose.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 28 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Group strategy The Group strategy sets out the specific sectors and geographic markets that Serco will operate in and the key areas we need to focus on in order to deliver our core competencies and become the best run business in our sector.
Aligned with the Group strategy are divisional strategies and functional strategies including the health, safety and the environment, People, IT and Finance strategies.
These strategies outline the vision, the performance targets we have set ourselves and an overview of how we intend to deliver our business objectives.
The strategies provide the basis of our business and operating plans, and also the various divisional continuous improvement programmes, rationalisation programmes, and global transformation programmes such as the Finance Transformation and IT Transformation programmes.
The overall coordination of the programmes is provided by a Group Programme Management Office PMO within the office of the Chief Operating Officer, which ensures effective prioritisation and tracking of benefits realisation to ensure we are delivering our overall Group strategy.
The PMO seeks to ensure near-term financial and delivery targets are reviewed: programmes are executable within set timescales: and milestones, risks and interdependencies are identified and appropriately managed.
Insurance We maintain insurance policies against losses arising from circumstances such as damage or destruction of physical assets, theft, legal liability for third-party loss and professional advice, and we review the adequacy of our insurance cover at regular intervals to ensure alignment with our operational risks.
IT security The Chief Information Officer is responsible for ensuring that systems, processes infrastructure, and controls are in place seek to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability process and controls of sensitive information and the associated information systems that support our business activities.
The controls include access control policies to prevent fraud, errors, sabotage and system design and change control procedures to ensure the integrity of data.
Serco has been accredited with the UK Government Cyber Essentials Plus certification: this provides confidence to a number of our stakeholders that we are appropriately prepared and protected.
We are currently delivering the Cyber Defence Programme which will provide improvements to the UK IT security infrastructure to provide better visibility, monitoring and control of UK security infrastructure, and a Global Security Operations Centre for monitoring and dealing with cyber-attacks across the Group.
Our Values and Our Values and Code of Conduct define the behaviours we expect from staff to Code of Conduct ensure we operate in a manner that is aligned with these principles and drives an organisation culture that enforces the Serco brand.
The Code of Conduct is supported by corporate guidelines, mandatory training modules Serco Essentials and Serco Essentials Plus training programmes, the Say No Tool Kit, and the Decision Making Guidance.
Our policies are supported by our Code of Conduct codeofconduct.
com, which applies to all employees from Board Directors to every member of front line staff, and also to suppliers.
Assurance that the Code of Conduct is deployed and is complied with is provided by the divisional in-country ethics teams as are the issues highlighted through the Speak Up process which enables staff to report illegal, dangerous, dishonest or unethical activities anonymously.
In addition, we carry out surveys to understand the effectiveness of these controls in delivering the organisational culture we strive for.
The Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee has responsibility for the review of ethical issues that may arise from our current and future activities.
Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties 29 Safety management Operations are required to work under defined, documented safety management systems systems including procedures and work instructions which are appropriate and proportionate to the nature of the operations safety risks.
Systems and procedures are reviewed at least annually to ensure they reflect material legal responsibilities associated with applicable material laws, regulations, approvals, licences and other material legal requirements, industry codes and best practice, contractual requirements and expectations of regulators and other interested parties.
Operations in safety critical areas including rail, aviation, nuclear, marine and custodial are subject to regulatory requirements which include specific requirements around safety management systems.
These are subject to review and audit by the relevant regulator, typically on an annual basis.
Serco Leadership The Serco Leadership Model defines the capabilities required at each leadership Model tier to align with our strategic priorities and provides a single, global definition of leadership that applies to all employees.
It provides a clear structure for our leadership development pipeline and helps us to identify, select and develop leadership talent.
The model is embedded in our key people processes, including: recruitment and selection: induction: performance management: leadership development: talent reviews and success planning: internal promotion and appointments.
For our leadership and all our people, successful execution of our business is enabled by clear definition of what is expected and the provision of guidance to meet those expectations.
Our Leadership Model defines our leadership capability requirement, aligned to our strategic priorities and applicable to all employees.
For Serco, leadership is less about hierarchy and more about behaviour building trust, relationships, networks, communities and working together.
Serco Management The SMS defines the policies, standards and processes to be applied wherever System SMS we operate.
The operating processes reflect the principles of clear delegation of authority and segregation of duties.
We continue to improve the SMS standards and processes to ensure they provide clarity on the mandatory controls that the business is required to implement to manage our risks, but are fit for purpose for the business.
Through our integrated approach to Corporate Renewal, we have introduced a greater level of transparency with respect to our SMS internal controls.
Significant volumes of training have been delivered both in the UK and globally to raise staff awareness of the SMS controls and to understand their roles and responsibilities.
We have also continued to roll-out and train key staff in the adoption of a revised Risk Management operating model.
Standardised Divisional and contract performance is reported against a balanced scorecard of Divisional Performance metrics contained in the Divisional Performance Review DPR.
DPR meetings are Reviews DPRs held periodically at different levels across the business and ultimately reviewed by the Group Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer on a monthly basis.
These reviews enable leadership to assess the operational health of the business on a regular basis.
Standardised finance We have implemented a standardised reporting process including the production systems, processes, of a core set of Management Accounts to enable line of sight throughout the and controls and organisation and a standardised planning and forecasting process to ensure reporting a consistent approach to business and financial planning across the Group.
To support the implementation of these standardised processes we have refreshed and updated the finance control procedures and are currently delivering a Finance Transformation Programme which will enhance SAP to provide a unified financial platform with the aim of providing the ability to gain instant insight into our financial position and to carry out real-time planning.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report
