STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Group aims to embed its risk management OVERALL APPROACH RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS procedures within its existing business Senior plcs risk philosophy is based around an During 2015 a number of improvements were processes and corporate governance acknowledgement that profits are in part the undertaken to improve the robustness of the structure, rather than impose an additional reward for risk taking.
Business objectives Group Risk Assessment Process.
administrative burden on its operations.
The cannot be achieved without assuming some In particular, Divisional and Group level Risk implementation of this Risk Philosophy is degree of risk, and therefore risk should be Assessments were significantly upgraded supported by an appropriate balance of embraced and managed effectively.
allowing a greater focus to be placed on the policies, procedures including a mandatory The Groups Risk Management Philosophy: detailed aspects of each risk, quality of controls Code of Conduct and performance metrics and further action required to manage our that are reported on regularly and designed Aims to take a relatively conservative business risks.
In turn, this approach allows the toenable the effective monitoring of progress approach to risk management.
Group to drive benefits from the process that against agreed objectives.
Targets an approach that is one of evolution directly relate to our Business Objectives.
At a minimum, the Group aims to ensure that rather than revolution.
Seniors annual Risk Management and any individually significant event: Encourages pursuit of opportunities, within Assessment Process is based on a framework that has or may result in the potential to an effective risk management framework, developed by the Committee of Sponsoring compromise its ability to achieve its asan essential component of a high Organisations of the Treadway Commission business objectives: or performance culture.
The COSO framework is globally recognised as the definitive standard against could lead to a material breach of policies Acknowledges that stronger and more which operations measure their risk and procedures: or effective risk management procedures will management and internal control systems.
result in management teams being capable could impact the delivery of earnings Itoutlines five components that, in an effective of embracing increased levels of risk and materially at a local operational level: is system, work to support the achievement of an pursuing more opportunities.
identified, reported on and actioned through entitys mission, strategy and related business the Groups risk management procedures.
Effectively implemented, should allow objectives.
These are: Senior plc to increase its rate of performance Risk events may occur in one or more Control Environment delivery without breaching its risk appetite.
ofthefollowing categories: Strategic, Risk Assessment Operational, Technology, Compliance Is designed to enhance senior leadership  and regulatory, decision making capabilities, strengthen Control Activities Reporting financial and non-financial, accountability and enhance stewardship Information and Communication Reputational, Financial or Political.
Within each operation, responsibility for the Is a critical factor in enabling management implementation of procedures to comply teams to deliver against performance and The foundation of Seniors Risk Management withthe Groups risk philosophy and risk organisational objectives, collectively the approach is a half yearly Risk Assessment management framework rests with the senior Groups business objectives.
Review although risks are continuously management team, which is accountable to monitored by the Executive Committee and the operations CEO and Divisional CEO.
In addition, all entities complete anAnnual Controls Self-Assessment CSA, The Group Executive Management Committee whichis designed to highlight any significant has responsibility for oversight of all Group gaps in the internal control system and require operations and implementation of risk development of improvement initiatives.
management at a Divisional level, and the Senior plc Board is ultimately accountable for the implementation of effective risk management procedures across the Group.
26 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DEFINE AND COMMUNICATE STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES MONITOR, REVIEW IDENTIFY AND EVALUATE AND UPDATE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES EVALUATE EXISTING IMPLEMENT CHANGES PROCESSES, CONTROLS AND RESOURCES IDENTIFY IMPROVEMENTS AND ALLOCATE RESPONSIBILITY assess whether the correct level of resources Risk is considered to be the fact that the Seniors operations have an increased awareness outcome of a future event is typically uncertain, of risk management and have processes are being targeted at the most appropriate areas.
In doing so, the intention is to encourage and consequently the result may not be as thatpromote consideration of risk as part of planned.
The outcome may be favourable or day-to-day management.
This is evidenced by: proactive management and reduce the time spent in firefighting mode.
This should lead adverse to the one planned.
Hence risk an open culture which encourages assessment and risk management should be to fewer surprises and a greater understanding consultation throughout the company: of the Groups competitive advantage, together considered in the light of both positive and negative outcomes.
The possibility of a missed challenging debate and a multi-disciplinary with the ability to take advantage of it.
The outcome may be approach to acceptance of new business: In summary, the Senior Risk Management impacted by both internal and external factors, identification of the factors constraining process can be illustrated below.
some of which we may have little or no current performance and formulation of influence over.
Hence, it is important to assess The process is led by the CEOs at each level in related corrective actions: the organisation although full management the relative impacts of the various influencing factors and manage those that can be devolved responsibility for identifying and team involvement is required.
managed, whilst acknowledging, but not managing risk: ignoring those that cant be.
simple and straightforward early warning Risk management is the process by which the mechanisms e. g. key performance indicators key objectives and the risks in achieving them financial and non-financial : and are identified, evaluated, prioritised and controlled.
consistent and reliable reporting systems.
The risk assessment process is designed to provide a basis for the regular review of the operating environment and an opportunity to Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 27 STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED The first review is carried out as a stand-alone RISK FRAMEWORK management meeting with all functional managers present at the same time.
Each manager prepares an initial risk assessment covering his or her own area of responsibility, but potentially all areas of influence.
This is presented to the meeting for constructive High CONTROLLABLE challenge.
The CEOs then take the role of ADEQUATE UNCONTROLLABLE 3 WITH LIMITS arbiter and devils advocate, and are responsible for ensuring the completeness of the review and the prioritisation of the items coming out of it.
The review documentation is laid out according to broad functional areas, which may not Medium STRONG AND CONTROLLABLE ADEQUATE necessarily align with the management structure 2 EFFECTIVE WITH LIMITS at each operation.
Hence it is the responsibility of the Managing Director to ensure that all areas of the business are covered in appropriate detail.
The typical questions to be asked and debated Low STRONG AND STRONG AND ADEQUATE for each functional area are: 1 EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE Have there been any problems in the past?
How is the area controlled and can it beimproved?
Low 10% Medium 10-50% High 50% What impact would it have on the businessand what is the probability of LIKELIHOOD OF OCCURRENCE things going wrong?
Can either the likelihood or severity of the impact of things going wrong be managed?
High Impact a potential impact 10% of budgeted OP or 2.5% of revenue.
Should an action plan be devised?
Medium Impact a potential impact 5% of budgeted OP or 1.5% of revenue.
Once the review has been undertaken and Low Impact a potential impact 5% of budgeted OP or 1% of revenue.
Risks identified, these are then assessed against the framework opposite.
The impact is not only considered in current year financial terms, but also in more strategic terms, which encompasses the need to build relationships with all stakeholders including employees, customers and suppliers for the longer term success of the business.
28 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 IMPACT OF OCCURRENCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OUR INTEGRATED GROUP RISK AND ASSURANCE FRAMEWORK Top Down and Bottom Up Approach on Risk Key Responsibilities Has overall responsibility for ensuring the Group risk Oversight from the Board and Executive managementprocess and systems of internal control are robust Committee on all Risk Identification, and continuously monitored Assessment and Mitigation is undertaken at all levels within the Group Formulates the Groups Strategy and defines the Groups RiskAppetite and Culture Three Lines of Defence on Assurance Monitors the nature, extent and management of risk exposure for The Third Line of Defence the Groups Principal Risks Independent Assurance Provides direction and sets the tone on the importance of risk The Second Line of Defence management THE Oversight Activities Board Sub Committees perform oversight activities in line withtheir BOARD Terms of Reference The First Line of Defence Operational Management Remuneration Nominations HSE Treasury Committee Committee Committee Committee Supports and challenges the Board in monitoring risk exposure in line with its Terms of Reference Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk GROUP AUDIT management and internal control systems COMMITTEE Independent Assurance the 3rd line of Defence External Group Internal Other External Audit Audit Assurance Operational Oversight 2nd line of Defence Development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Monitoring of operating and financial performance DIVISIONAL MANAGEMENT Assessment and control of risk including emerging risks Prioritisation and allocation of resources Lead and co-ordinate Group Risk and Control related processes Assesses and supports the Group in mitigating the Groups risks including: GROUP CORPORATE FUNCTIONS Policies and Specialist Procedures Support Control Self Business Assessments Reviews Operational Management 1st line of Defence Business Units identify, assess andmitigate their key risks BUSINESS UNITS Risk Assessments are reviewed and discussed by Divisional Management.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 29 RISK OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL OVERSIGHT AND INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Increased risk Decreased risk Constant risk PRINCIPAL GROUP RISKS Overall, the Groups risk profile was largely unchanged in 2015 when compared to 2014.
The principal potential risks and uncertainties, together with actions that are being taken to mitigate each risk, are set out below: RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIONS TO MITIGATE RISK NEW AIRCRAFT PLATFORM DELAYS The Group monitors programme development and launch timing of new aircraft platforms very Significant shipset content has been secured on a number of new aircraft platforms closely, utilising internal customer relationships and market intelligence.
currently under development or in initial phases A cautious approach is taken to both capital investment in new programmes, to minimise the of production.
These include the Airbus A350, time between installation and utilisation of new capital equipment, and to the projected build A320neo, the Boeing 737 MAX and rates and associated revenue in financial projections.
Delays in The growing breadth of Seniors exposure to a comprehensive and diverse range of aerospace and the launch or ramp-up in production of these land vehicle platforms, together with its broad exposure in global industrial markets, means that the platforms could have a material adverse impact Groups future organic growth profile is not overly dependent on any individual new aircraft platform.
on the Groups rate of organic growth.
IMPORTANCE OF EMERGING MARKETS Customers desire to move manufacture of The Groups strategy of developing a portfolio of high value-added engineering manufacturing components to lower-cost countries could companies has meant that over time it has generally evolved away from products where the render the Groups operations direct threat of lower-cost country manufacture is significant.
uncompetitive and have an adverse impact The Group successfully employs a strategy of retaining commercial and engineering expertise close on profitability.
In addition, certain to customers locations, principally in North America and Europe.
This enables effective support to customers require global programme be readily given to its customers, whilst increasing manufacturing at above-average growth rates support as they respond to increasing in lower-cost country locations where it makes sense to do so and with customer agreement.
domestic demand in a number of these The Group has an increasing presence in emerging markets via its facilities in Mexico, Thailand, emerging markets.
the Czech Republic, South Africa, Brazil, India, Malaysia and China.
Each of these operations, individually and in combination, has a healthy number of viable opportunities for further expansion either to supply domestic markets or to support customers increasingly global needs.
PRICE-DOWN PRESSURES Customer pricing pressure is an ongoing The Group works closely with its customers to find innovative ways to produce products at challenge within our industries, driven by alower cost thus helping them to meet pricing challenges.
the expectations of airlines, land vehicle The Group is able to consider bundles of products that in total help achieve customer pricing challenges.
operators and governments seeking to Where appropriate, the Group will actively pass work to some of its lower-cost facilities such as purchase more competitively priced products Mexico, Thailand, the Czech Republic, South Africa, Brazil, India, China and Malaysia with a view in the future.
This will continue to put pressure to help satisfy customer challenges.
on the Groups future operating margins.
ACQUISITIONS Failure to execute an effective acquisition Consistently strong free cash flow generation gives the Group capacity to continue to execute and integration programme would have a atargeted acquisition programme.
significant impact on the Groups ability to The Group has a well-established acquisition framework that includes proven valuation, due generate long-term value for shareholders.
During 2015 a Post-Acquisition Playbook has been developed which will be used to ensure that acquisitions are integrated into the Group efficiently and effectively.
Post-acquisition reviews are performed on key acquisitions, comprising a full retrospective review of each deal process, integration effectiveness, operational performance compared to expectation and sharing of lessons learned with the Board and across the senior management team.
STRATEGY An appropriately formulated, communicated Focus is placed on the strategic planning process, to ensure that the Group formulates the and effectively executed strategy is essential most appropriate strategy to capitalise, over time, on the significant breadth of potential growth in order to avoid the risk of inappropriate opportunities in its chosen market sectors.
allocation of resources and failure to deliver The process includes regular strategy sessions at operational, Executive Committee and Boardlevel.
30 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIONS TO MITIGATE RISK PROGRAMME PARTICIPATION Long-term growth in demand, including The Group has developed a portfolio of businesses that are exposed to markets which exhibit participation in future development fundamental long-term growth characteristics.
programmesin the Groups major markets, Customer value is driven through constructive and co-operative relationships with key isanessential foundation for future growth.
customers in each market, providing innovative customer solutions and quality products Failureto secure profitable new programme delivered on time and in line with specifications.
winscould have a severe impact on the The Group ensures that its operations are sufficiently well capitalised to be able to bid Groupslong-term performance.
competitively on new programme opportunities, and maintains close control over operating costs to ensure that operations remain competitive on existing programmes.
The Group utilises an internal contract approval process, comprising both financial and nonfinancial analyses, to ensure that bids are submitted and won at acceptable margin levels.
EMPLOYEE RETENTION An inability to attract, develop and retain Capable, empowered and highly engaged individuals are a key asset of the business.
high-quality individuals in key management Thestrong reputation of the Group helps attract experienced senior executives from within positions could severely affect the longtheindustry.
term success of the Group.
The Group sponsors the development and training of key managers, at all levels, through an increasingly comprehensive in-house management development programme.
Senior management turnover ratios remain low, a further indication of success in this important area.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BREACH Corporate governance legislation such as the The Group has well-established governance policies and procedures in all key areas, including UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt aGroup Code of Business Conduct, anti-bribery procedures, a Health and Safety Charter, and Practices Act, regulations and guidance such various policies and procedures over the review and reporting of risk management and internal as the UK Corporate Governance Code and control activities.
global health and safety regulations are The Group Finance Director, the Group Company Secretary and the Head of Internal Audit increasingly complex and onerous.
A serious collectively retain principal responsibility for reviewing governance changes that may have an breach of these rules and regulations could impact on the Group.
have a significant impact on the Groups Governance updates are provided to the Board and Executive Committee at appropriate intervals, reputation, lead to a loss of confidence on and to key operational management.
Recent examples of developments in this area include thepart of investors, customers or other formulation of a Business Continuity Framework, IT Policy Guidelines, and anti-bribery training.
stakeholders and ultimately have a material adverse impact on the Groups enterprise value.
FINANCING AND LIQUIDITY The Group could have insufficient The Groups overall treasury risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial financialresources to fund its growth markets, and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
strategy or meet its financial obligations Compliance with financial policies and exposure limits are reviewed by the Groups Treasury asthey fall due.
The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange risk arising onoperations trading activities in foreign currencies, however, it does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities and paying close attention to the projected level of headroom under the covenants contained in its committed borrowing facilities.
GLOBAL CYCLICAL DOWNTURN The potential adverse impact on the Group The Group is well positioned in its key aerospace, industrial, and emission-related sectors of of significant demand declines in key land vehicle markets, where increasingly stringent legislation should ensure that long-term markets arising from the consequences of demand for the Groups products remains healthy.
either future sovereign debt issues, ongoing Through diversity of its end-market exposures and a robust financing position, the Group government austerity measures, and or remains well placed to be able to withstand potential negative consequences that may arise political instability remains significant.
from a further global cyclical downturn.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 31
