Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41 Principal risks Ref What is the risk?
Which part of Severn What does it mean for us?
What are we doing to manage the risk?
Legal and regulatory environment 3 We may be unable to Severn Trent Water Severn Trent Water operates in Severn Trent has always contributed to the debate effectively anticipate a highly regulated environment.
about our industrys future, including through and or inuence future Whilstwe are broadly content with our series of Changing Course publications.
We developments in the thedirection of changes proposed will continue to be an active participant in these UK water industry forour industry, there remains conversations, so we can help shape thinking about resulting in our business a riskthat future changes could how to best serve our customers in the future.
plans becoming haveasignicant impact on Severn We have contributed to the establishment unsustainable.
of OpenWater, the body which will oversee competition in the non-household retail market.
We continue to liaise with Government, regulators and other stakeholders to ensure we understand the future direction of policy, its implications for our business and are able to put forward our own case for change in a constructive way.
We will continue to engage with our peers, Ofwat and other regulators, UK Government departments and other stakeholders, including the Welsh Government, to influence the direction of regulatory policy where possible.
4The regulatory Group-wide Our policies and processes must We understand that the regulatory landscape is landscape is complex reflect the current legal and changing and following on from the restructuring and subject to ongoing regulatory environment and all of our organisation and in preparation for the change.
There is a risk relevant employees must be kept opening up of the retail market, we plan to refresh that processes may fail aware of new requirements.
or that our processes to the spread of our operations, We plan to continue extensive training across may not effectively keep and changes in activity and the group, particularly in relation to transactions pace with changes in organisational structure, this is not between group companies and competition law.
legislation, leading to the always straightforward.
as a whole may face censure for non-compliance in an individual group company or a specific region in which we operate.
Operations, assets and people 5 We may experience loss Group-wide The risks arising from loss of one We recognise that the cyber threat to the business of data or interruptions or more of our major systems or is constantly evolving and one which we need to to our key business corruption of data held in those monitor and act on in a timely manner.
systemas a result of systems could have far reaching Using guidance from the Governments Centre for cyber threats.
We have Protection of Critical National Infrastructure we recognised the increasing threats have identied key areas where we can improve posed by the possibility of cyber our controls, focusing on training our people to be attacks on our systems and data.
more security aware and ensuring our processes Whilst this threat can never be and technology are designed with security in mind.
eliminated and will continue to evolve, we are focused on the need We have improved the resilience of our systems to maintain effective mitigation.
through implementation of disaster recovery services and regularly test our ability to recover from systems failure.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 42 Principal risks continued Principal risks Ref What is the risk?
Operations, assets and people continued 6 We may fail to meet Severn Trent Water If we are unable to meet operational Our business plan for 20152020 includes our regulatory performance targets, we may be considerable investment in our assets to targets, including subjected to significant regulatory improve the resilience of our networks, reduce targets from Ofwat in penalties, either within the current interruptions and improve the service that our relation to operational price review period, or applied to the customers receive.
performance of our next price review.
We recognise areas where our performance assets, resulting in Regulatory targets apply to all of is not as consistent as we would like and are regulatory penalties.
our water treatment, distribution, committed to improving these areas.
We have sewerage and sewage treatment undertaken a significant amount of work at our assets.
Measures are in place in water treatment works and boreholes, inspecting relation to water quality, continuous thesites and increasing our maintenance and supplies, sewer ooding, sewer capitalreplacement.
We remain committed to investing in continuous improvement activities such as our Valuing Every Drop programme which has signicantly reduced our time to process and react to leaks.
We have also continued to work to reduce the impact to our customers when things unfortunately do go wrong, for example by faster despatch of emergency tankers and providing our staff with incident management training.
To improve our waste water performance we have trialled different ways of engaging with customers to raise awareness of the problems caused by putting the wrong things down our sewers.
We are also investing in capital solutions to enable us to protect properties at risk of sewer ooding.
7 Failure of certain key Group-wide Some of our assets are critical Our 20152020 business plan includes substantial assets or processes to the provision of water to large investment in some of our largest strategic may result in inability populations for which we require assets such as the Elan Valley and Derwent Valley to provide a continuous alternative means of supply.
We are also investing 340 million in supply of quality water one of our largest ever capital schemes to improve Examples include failure of one of to large populations the resilience of our water supply to Birmingham.
our reservoirs or use of chemicals within our area, or in our treatment processes.
These These investments will improve the resilience cause damage to third assets are regularly inspected and of our services and reduce the risk of injury as a party property or injury maintained and our assessment of result of failure of one of our assets.
or ill health to our the overall condition of these assets people, contractors and As well as investing in improvements we also have is good.
members of the general assurance plans in place to monitor, inspect and public.
Another example is our IT and maintain our most critical assets.
telephony systems which are critical We also have security measures in place and to our operations and failure of these contingency plans to maintain supplies in the event systems, for example our remote of failure.
monitoring system, could have a significant effect.
Financial risks 8Changing demographics Group-wide We already provide significant We regularly revalue our schemes and monitor and uctuations in the funding.
We may be called upon our investment performance and will continue investment market may to provide more money to reduce to monitor the performance of our pensions affect our ability to fund deficits in ourpensions schemes.
investments and to work closely with our third party pensions promises advisors to ensure that the schemes are managed sustainably.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43 Financial review Chief Financial Ofcers review Increase decrease 2015 2014 The group has delivered a good financial performance in m m m % 2014 15, underpinned by continuing improvements and growth Employee costs 248.4 242.0 6.4 2.6 in our regulated business, and continued revenue growth in our Hired and contracted 163.8 154.1 9.7 6.3 non-regulated Severn Trent Services business.
Costs capitalised 92.4 92.6 0.2 0.2 On 13 May 2015 we announced the sale of our Water Raw materials and Purication business to Industrie fide Nora.
The disposal follows consumables 47.4 42.5 4.9 11.5 a successful turnaround of the business, and will enable our Power 63.9 65.3 1.4 2.1 reorganised Business Services division to focus on its core Bad debts 28.4 31.3 2.9 9.3 strengths in water, waste, retail and renewables.
The Water Rates and service charges 113.2 112.3 0.9 0.8 Purication business has been classied as a discontinued Other 46.4 45.4 1.0 2.2 operation, and our prior year results have been restated to 619.1 600.3 18.8 3.1 reect this.
We made some important changes to our nancing structure Employee costs were 2.6% higher, broadly in line with annual at the end of the year, to reduce short term nancing risk and pay ination.
The benets of the recent reorganisation, which increase exposure to currently low oating interest rates.
included a reduction of 500 roles, will be seen from 2015 16.
These included replacing our revolving credit facility with a Hired and contracted costs were 6.3% higher as we invested new 900 million facility and negotiating and drawing down in key operational areas, such as sewer blockages and mains on a new 530 million European Investment Bank EIB cleaning, to make a fast start in AMP6.
The benets of this facility.
In addition, we cancelled some oating to xed interest will ow through to 2015 16.
Raw materials and consumables rate swaps and purchased 183 million of our xed rate increased by 4.9 million due to ination and additional 700 million Eurobond loan, due for repayment in March 2016, spending on water quality improvements.
which resulted in a one time nancing charge of 6.6 million Power costs decreased by 1.4 million.
As a result, we have reduced the interest cost on good progress on our renewable energy generation, and 415 million of debt and swaps from an average interest rate generated the equivalent of 28% of gross consumption from of 5.1% to a oating rate, currently 1%.
This has moved the self-generation in the year, providing an effective hedge against proportion of our debt that is at oating rates to 10%, in line with energy price volatility.
our stated policy for AMP6 to increase the level of variable rate debt.
Further details are set out in the Treasury management Bad debt charges improved to 2.0% of turnover UK GAAP, and liquidity section below.
down from 2.2% in 2013 14 as we saw the benefit of improved collection of older household debt and a range of social tariffs A brief overview of our financial performance for the year is which help customers pay their bills.
as follows: Depreciation increased by 2.7 million, due to the growing Group turnover from continuing operations was 1,801.3 million asset base.
Infrastructure maintenance expenditure declined 2013 14: 1,756.7 million, an increase of 2.5%.
5.5 million due to operational efficiencies and programme 1 Underlying PBIT increased by 3.2% to 540.3 million phasing as we closed out AMP5.
We completed our planned capital programme for AMP5, investing 547.4 million UK GAAP, net of grants and Net exceptional charges before tax totalled 18.7 million contributions during the year.
Included in this total was net 2013 14: 15.2 million.
infrastructure maintenance expenditure of 134.8 million, 1 Reported group PBIT was 521.6 million which is charged to the income statement under IFRS.
Non-regulated Severn Trent Services Net finance costs were 240.0 million 2013 14: 247.9 million.
PBIT is profit before interest and tax: underlying PBIT excludes exceptional items Restated decrease as set out in note 8. m m % Turnover Regulated Severn Trent Water In Severn Trent Water, underlying PBIT increased by 3.9% to Services as reported 216.3 210.2 2.9% 539.0 million 2013 14: 518.6 million.
Impact of exchange rate uctuations 3.5 Turnover increased by 36.4 million, or 2.4%, to 1,581.2 million Like for like 216.3 206.7 4.6% as a result of price increases of 1.5% 23.0 million : higher Underlying PBIT consumption from metered commercial customers Services as reported 9.7 13.3 27.1% 1.9 million : growth, net of meter optants 1.0 million and other increases including tariff mix effects of 10.5 million.
Like for like 9.7 13.3 27.1% Operating costs, excluding depreciation and infrastructure The results above exclude the Water Purication business, maintenance expenditure, increased in line with expectations which has been classied as a discontinued operation.
