Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management Shires risk management strategy is toidentify, framework assess and mitigate any significant risks that it As a highly regulated biopharmaceutical faces.
Despite this, no risk management strategy company with a keen patient focus, Shire has implemented policies and procedures can provide absolute assurance against loss.
intended to reduce risk and to ensure appropriate and lawful conduct within the increasing number of countries in which the Company operates.
Success in these Risk management framework areas is of benefit to shareholders and other stakeholders alike.
Shires risk Board of Directors management strategy is to identify, assess Determines risk tolerance and ensures the maintenance and mitigate any significant risks that it  and internal control systems.
Despite this, it should be noted that no risk management strategy can provide Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee absolute assurance against loss.
Monitors and reviews risk management and internal Board of Directors control systems.
The Board is responsible for determining the Groups risk tolerance and for ensuring Executive Committee the maintenance of sound systems of risk Oversees the implementation and operation of the risk management and internal control.
In management and internalcontrol infrastructure.
fulfilling this responsibility, the Board sets Shires corporate risk culture: ensuring its Risk Council dissemination throughout the organization.
Oversees risk management at an operational level.
This is achieved through interaction with key stakeholders which, in turn, enables Global Compliance and Risk Management Department the Board to monitor and review the Groups Supports the development, implementation and maintenance risks as well as its risk management and internal control systems.
During the year  and risk management systems.
the Board undertook a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, Chief Compliance and Risk Officer including those that might threaten its Responsible for the global compliance program and for business model, future performance,  mitigation activity.
Stakeholders to the risk management framework, which is Internal Audit overseen by the Board and designed to Provides independent assurance to the Audit, Compliance manage and mitigate the Groups risks, &Risk Committee.
Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee Business units and corporate functions The Committee supports the Board by, Implement risk management processes and establish ona biannual basis, reviewing and internal controls  organizations.
reporting on the principal risks faced by theCompany, with each assessed on likelihood of materialization and potential impact.
Furthermore, alongside the Board the Committee monitors and reviews the risk management and internal control systems: ensuring oversight through its interaction with functional stakeholders, through its review and challenge of key riskand control processes and through itsevaluation of key strategy updates frommanagement.
Executive Committee The Committee is responsible for ensuring the implementation of the risk management and internal control infrastructure: overseeing its operation and ensuring it remains effective.
Committee members receive regular updates from functional stakeholders and, along with the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer and the Head of Internal Audit, are responsible for 36 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information elevating matters to the Board and Audit, Chief Compliance and Risk Officer The Companys revenues, financial Compliance & Risk ACR Committee as The Chief Compliance and Risk Officer condition or results of operations may required.
In addition, on a biannual basis the isresponsible for the global compliance beadversely affected if any or all of the Committee validates any significant risks program and for coordinating oversight following occur: put forward by the Risk Council: identifying ofrisk mitigation activity through the if the Companys products, or and putting forward for review by the ACR Enterprise Risk Management process.
competitive products, are genericized: Committee those that have the capacity Inaddition to maintaining relationships if the prices of the Companys products tomaterially impact the Groups strategy.
withassurance functions outside of the suffer forced reductions or if prices of Global Compliance and Risk Management Risk Council competitor products are reduced Department, the Chief Compliance and The Risk Council comprises senior members significantly: Risk Officer has direct access to the Board of the Companys business units and and the ACR Committee: providing an if there are unanticipated adverse events corporate functions, including the Head independent mechanism of escalation, experienced with the Companys ofInternal Audit, and is chaired by the should the need arise.
The Chief Compliance products or those of a competitors ChiefCompliance and Risk Officer.
The and Risk Officer provides twice-yearly product not seen in clinical trials that Council is charged with overseeing risk updates to the ACR Committee on risk impact physicians willingness to management at an operational level: andrisk mitigation, as well as more regular prescribe the Companys products: ensuring that each identified risk is updates regarding compliance monitoring if issues arise from clinical trials being allocated an owner within the business and investigation.
who is responsible for related management conducted for post-marketing purposes or for registration in another country and mitigation activities.
As part of the Internal Audit biannual risk review process the Council which raise questions or concerns about The Internal Audit function provides a product: appraises risk schedules produced by independent assurance to the ACR individual business units and corporate Committee with respect to the operation if the regulatory agencies in one country functions: validating and revising assessments ofinternal control and risk management act in a way that raises concerns for made and evaluating mitigation practices.
regulatory agencies or for prescribers or A report is prepared for review by the patients in another country: Business units and corporate functions Executive Committee detailing all risks if patients, payers or physicians favor Business units and corporate functions meeting a prescribed threshold along other treatments over the Companys areresponsible for implementing risk withrecommendations on their mitigation.
products: management processes and establishing The Chief Compliance and Risk Officer internal controls within their respective if the Companys products are subject then presents these matters to the ACR organizations in accordance with a tomore stringent government regulation Committee: highlighting those risks of centrally approved framework.
In addition, than competitor products: strategic importance to the Company.
each produces a schedule of material risks if patent protection or other forms of Global Compliance and Risk and associated mitigation plans as part of exclusivity are lost or curtailed, or if Management Department the Groups biannual review process for competitors are able to successfully The Department, led by the Chief submission to the Risk Council.
challenge or circumvent the Companys Compliance and Risk Officer, is made patents or other forms of exclusivity Risk factors upofcompliance, privacy, corporate SeeNote 18, Commitments and security and risk management, and Health, Set out below are the principal risk factors Contingencies, Legal and other Safety &Environment sub-teams.
It is proceedings to the consolidated associated with the business that have responsible for supporting the development, been identified through the Companys risk financial statements set forth in this implementation and maintenance of Annual Report: management and internal control systems.
effective compliance and risk management The Company believes that these risk if launches of the Companys products systems.
This is achieved through policy factors apply equally and therefore all innew markets are not successful: development, the delivery of training programs should be carefully considered before and communications, and through the if the sizes of the patient populations for anyinvestment is made in Shire.
ongoing monitoring of compliance and the Companys products are less than risk-assessed activity, with follow-up The Companys products may not be expected: or investigation undertaken where necessary.
if there are lawsuits filed against Shire, Such activity provides for the timely The commercial success of the Companys including but not limited to, product undertaking of mitigation and or remediation marketed products and other new products liability claims, consumer law claims, actions, as well for the escalation of matters that the Company may launch in the andpayer or reimbursement litigation.
to the ACR Committee and to the Board future, will depend on their approval and asappropriate.
In addition, the Chief If the Company is unable to commercialize acceptance by physicians, patients and Compliance and Risk Officer provides regular its products successfully, there may be a other key decision-makers, as well as the updates to the ACR Committee on all matters material adverse effect on the Companys receipt of marketing approvals in different falling within the Departments remit.
revenues, financial condition or results countries, the time taken to obtain such ofoperations.
approvals, the scope of marketing approvals as reflected in the product labels, approval of reimbursement at commercially sustainable prices in those countries whereprice and reimbursement is negotiated, and safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness of the product as compared to competitive products.
Shire Annual Report 2015 37 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Increased pricing pressures and limits price controls, unsuccessful government INTUNIV, REPLAGAL and GATTEX on patient access as a result of tenders, or non-reimbursement of new REVESTIVE and also relies on limited third governmental regulations and market medicines or new indications.
party sources to provide the donated developments may affect the Companys human plasma necessary for the Moreover, the cost of treatment for future revenues, financial condition and manufacture of CINRYZE.
Following the someofthe Companys products is high, results of operations.
completion of the acquisition of Dyax Corp particularly those which are used for the on January 22, 2016 Shire acquired The Companys product revenues are subject treatment of rare diseases.
The Company DX-2930, which currently relies on separate to increasing pressures from governmental may encounter difficulty in obtaining or sole sources for both production of the initiatives to regulate or influence prices maintaining satisfactory pricing and finaldrug product and supply of the active and access to customers.
Regulations in reimbursement for such products.
The ingredient for its Phase 3 trial.
In addition, the United States, the European Union and failure to obtain and maintain pricing and one of those drug substance sites has not other jurisdictions mandating price controls reimbursement at satisfactory levels for been approved by the FDA and would need or imposing constraints on patients ability itsproducts may adversely affect the to be approved prior to commercial launch.
to purchase Shires products significantly Companys revenues, financial condition Any failure by a single-source supplier to impacts its business, and the Companys orresults of operations.
provide the Company with the required financial condition and results of operations volumes on time or at all, or to provide could be adversely affected in the future The Company depends on third parties products that do not meet regulatory bychanges in such regulations, practices to supply certain inputs and services requirements, could lead to significant or policies.
critical to its operations including delays in the production of Shires products, certain inputs, services and ingredients Regulatory measures that could have a increases in operating costs, lost product critical to its manufacturing processes.
material adverse effect on the Company sales, an interruption of research activities, The Company relies on third-party include the imposition of governmentor the delay of new product launches, all of suppliers, vendors and outsourcing approved drug pricing schedules, the which could have a material adverse effect partners to, among other things, research, useof drug formularies, prohibitions on on the Companys revenues, financial develop, manufacture and commercialize direct-to-consumer advertising or drug condition or results of operations.
its products, to provide certain key marketing practices and caps or limits on ingredients and manufacturing inputs and Any disruption to the supply chain the level of reimbursement provided to the to manage certain sales, distribution, forany of the Companys products, Company by governmental reimbursement marketing, information technology, orany difficulties or delays in the schemes for its products.
accounting,  and manufacturing, distribution and sale of These pressures have also resulted in market other business services.
While the Company its products may result in the Company developments, such as the consolidation depends on these third parties for multiple being unable to continue marketing or ofmanaged care organizations and private aspects of its product development, developing a product, or may result in health insurers, that have increased the manufacturing, commercialization and the Company being unable to do so on relative bargaining power of institutional business activities, it does not control acommercially viable basis for some drug purchasers and enhanced their ability these third parties directly.
to negotiate discounts and extract other A disruption, delay or other difficulties in As a result, there is a possibility these concessions in exchange for purchasing the manufacturing, distribution and sale thirdparties may not complete activities Shires products.
ofShires products, or in the supply chain onschedule or in accordance with the of any of its products, may have a material Such regulatory and market developments Companys expectations, and their failure adverse effect on the Company and create downward pressures on the prices at to meet certain contractual, regulatory or itsrevenues, financial condition and which the Company can offer its products other obligations to Shire, or any disruption resultsofoperations.
Examples of and on the level of reimbursement its of Shires relationship with these third suchmanufacturing and supply chain treatments receive from health care providers, parties could delay or prevent the difficultiesinclude, but are not limited to: private health insurers and other organizations, development, approval, manufacture such as health maintenance organizations orcommercialization of the Companys regulatory or enforcement actions and managed care organizations.
products, result in non-compliance with thatresult in shut-downs, delays in applicable laws and regulations, disrupt orwithdrawal of regulatory approvals Additional factors affecting the Companys Shires operations, or result in reputational necessary to carry on manufacturing ability to obtain and maintain adequate or other harm to the Company.
activities, product recalls and penalties prices and levels of reimbursement for its or fines resulting in unanticipated costs in products include: This outsourcing risk is of particular concern production, whether imposed directly on with respect to third-party suppliers of higher levels of controls on the use the Company or imposed indirectly through keymanufacturing inputs of Shires drug oftheCompanys products and or one or more of its third-party suppliers: products.
Although the Company dualrequirements for further price sources certain key products and or active the inability of the Company to increase concessions mandated or negotiated ingredients, the Company currently relies its production capacity for certain drugs bymanaged health care organizations on a single source for production of the commensurate with market demand: orgovernment authorities: final drug product for each of ADDERALL the possibility that the supply of incoming legislative proposals to reform health XR, CINRYZE, FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, materials may be delayed or become care and government insurance INTUNIV, LIALDA, PENTASA and NATPARA unavailable and that the quality of programs in many of the Companys NATPAR.
The Company currently relies on incoming materials may be substandard markets: and a single active ingredientsource for each and not detected: ofELAPRASE, FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, 38 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information the possibility that the Company may fail compliance with the applicable regulatory The Company has a portfolio of to maintain appropriate quality standards agencys regulations and standards.
products in various stages of research throughout its internal and third-party Theneed to qualify a new manufacturer and development.
The successful supply network, or to comply with orsource of ingredients or packaging development of these products is highly current manufacturing best practices, materials can take a significant amount uncertain and requires significant rules or other applicable regulations: oftime.
Should it become necessary to expenditures and time, and there is change a manufacturer or supplier of noguarantee that these products will disruptions to supply chain continuity as ingredients or packaging materials, or to receive regulatory approval.
a result of natural or man-made disasters qualify an additional supplier, the Company Products that initially appear promising at the Companys facilities or at one or may not be able do so quickly, or at all, inresearch or development may be more of its third-party suppliers facilities: which could delay or disrupt the delayed or fail to reach later stages of and manufacturing process.
development as: failure to maintain the integrity of the Companys supply chains against fraudulent US-based manufacturers must be registered preclinical or clinical tests may show and criminal acts, such as intentional with the DEA and similar regulatory theproduct to lack safety or efficacy: product adulteration, diversion, theft, authorities in other countries if they handle delays may be caused by slow enrollment orcounterfeiting activities.
Certain of the in clinical studies: regulatory requirements Companys products, including ADDERALL for clinical trial drug supplies: extended Also, as noted above, the Company has XR and VYVANSE, contain ingredients length of time to achieve study endpoints: also entered into many agreements with which are controlled substances subject additional time requirements for data third parties for the provision of goods and toquotas managed by the DEA.
As a analysis or dossier preparation: time services to enable it to manufacture its result, the Companys procurement and required for discussions with regulatory products.
If these third parties are unable production quotas may not be sufficient agencies, including regulatory agency to manufacture products, or provide these tomeet commercial demand.
requests for additional preclinical or clinical goods and services, in each case in data: delays at regulatory agencies accordance with its respective contractual CINRYZE, ELAPRASE, REPLAGAL and dueto staffing or resource limitations: obligations, the Companys ability to VPRIV are manufactured using highly analysis of or changes to study manage its manufacturing processes or to complex biological processes.
The complexity design:unexpected safety, efficacy, or operate its business, including to continue of the manufacturing results in a number manufacturing issues: delays may arise the development or commercialization of ofrisks, including the risk of microbial from shared control with collaborative itsproducts as planned or on a commercial contamination.
Additionally, CINRYZE partners in the planning and execution basis, may be adversely impacted.
isderived from human plasma, and is ofthe product development, scaling of therefore subject to the risk of biological The manufacture of the Companys the manufacturing process, or getting contamination inherent in plasma-derived products is subject to extensive approval for manufacturing: products.
The sole manufacturer of CINRYZE oversight by various regulatory has received observations on Form 483 manufacturing issues, pricing or agencies.
Regulatory approvals or and a warning letter from the FDA reimbursement issues, or other factors may interventions associated with changes identifying issues with respect to the render the product economically unviable: to manufacturing sites, ingredients or manufacturing process for CINRYZE which the proprietary rights of others and their manufacturing processes could lead must be addressed to the satisfaction competing products and technologies tosignificant delays, an increase in ofthe FDA.
Any regulatory interventions, may prevent the product from being operating costs, lost product sales, inrelation to these, or any other issues, developed or commercialized: or aninterruption of research activities iftheyoccur, may delay or disrupt the orthe delay of new product launches.
submission of an application for regulatory manufacture of the Companys products.
Pharmaceutical and device manufacturing approval of any of the Companys product The failure to obtain regulatory approvals sites must be inspected and approved by candidates may be subjected to lengthy promptly or at all and or regulatory regulatory agencies such as the FDA, and review and ultimately rejected.
interventions associated with changes similar agencies in other countries.
Active Success in preclinical and early clinical tomanufacturing sites, ingredients or ingredients, excipients and packaging trials does not ensure that late stage manufacturing processes could lead to materials used in the manufacturing clinical trials will be successful.
Clinical significant delays, an increase in operating process must be obtained from sources results are frequently susceptible to varying costs, lost product sales, an interruption approved by regulatory agencies.
interpretations that may delay, limit, or ofresearch activities, the delay of new The development, approval and prevent regulatory approvals.
The length product launches or constraints on manufacturing of the Companys products oftime necessary to complete clinical trials manufacturing output, all of which could depend on the ability to procure ingredients and to submit an application for marketing have a material adverse effect on the and packaging materials from approved approval for a final decision by a regulatory Companys revenues, financial condition sources and for the manufacturing authority varies significantly and may and results of operations.
processto be conducted at approved bedifficult to predict.
Changes of manufacturer or changes anapplication is submitted, additional of source of ingredients or packaging datamay be sought by regulators or materials must generally be approved by anapplication may be rejected.
If the the regulatory agencies, which will involve Companys large-scale or late-stage clinical testing and additional inspections to ensure trials foraproduct are not successful, the Shire Annual Report 2015 39 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Company will not recover its substantial of, pharmaceutical products and medical For example, since 2009, generic versions investments in that product.
The Company devices in a number of jurisdictions around of ADDERALL XR have been marketed has a range of programs in or entering late the world.
The promotion, marketing and and, since 2014, generic versions of stage clinical development.
For example, sale of pharmaceutical products and INTUNIV have been marketed in the United an NDA for SHP606 for the treatment of medical devices is highly regulated and the States.
As a result, product sales of signs and symptoms of adults with DED is sales and marketing practices of market ADDERALL XR and INTUNIV have declined.
currently in registration with the FDA and participants, such as the Company, have Factors which could cause further or more following the acquisition of Dyax in January been subject to increasing supervision by rapid declines in Shires product sales include: 2016 the Company has acquired SHP643 governmental authorities, and Shire formerly DX-2930 for the treatment of believes that this trend will continue.
the loss or earlier than expected expiration HAE, which is in Phase 3. of intellectual property rights or regulatory In the United States, the Companys sales exclusivity periods with respect to the In addition, even if the products receive and marketing activities are monitored by Companys branded products: regulatory approval, they remain subject to anumber of regulatory authorities and law generic or authorized generic versions of ongoing regulatory requirements, including, enforcement agencies, including the US for example, obligations to conduct Department of HHS, the FDA, the US these products capturing more of Shires branded market share than expected: additional clinical trials or other non-clinical Department of Justice, the SEC and the testing, changes to the product label DEA.
These authorities and agencies and lower prices and the actual or perceived which could impact its marketability and their equivalents in countries outside the greater effectiveness or safety of generic prospects for commercial success, new US have broad authority to investigate drug products relative to Shires branded orrevised requirements for manufacturing, market participants for potential violations products: written notifications to physicians, or of laws relating to the sale, marketing and the FDA approving additional ANDAs product recalls or withdrawals.
promotion of pharmaceutical products and forgeneric versions of these products medical devices, including the False Claims which, if launched, would further reduce The actions of certain customers could Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute and the branded market share or impact the affect the Companys ability to sell or Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, among amount of Shires authorized generic market products profitably.
Fluctuations others, for alleged improper conduct, product sales: in buying or distribution patterns by including corrupt payments to government such customers can adversely affect changes in reimbursement policies of officials, improper payments to medical theCompanys revenues, financial third-party payers: or professionals, off-label marketing of conditions or results of operations.
pharmaceutical products and medical changes to the level of sales deductions A considerable portion of the Companys devices, and the submission of false for branded Shire products for private or product sales are made to major claimsfor reimbursement by the federal public payers.
Healthcare companies may Should any of the above developments aswell as to large pharmacies, in both also be subject to enforcement actions or theUS and Europe.
In 2015, for example, occur, the resulting generic competition prosecution for such improper conduct.
could reduce sales and market share of 47%of the Companys product sales were Any inquiries or investigations into the attributable to three customers in the US: Shires branded products and have a operations of, or enforcement or other material adverse effect on the Companys AmerisourceBergen Drug Corp. McKesson regulatory action against, the Company by Corp. and Cardinal Health, Inc.
In the event revenues, financial condition or results such authorities could result in significant ofoperations.
of financial failure of any of these customers defense costs, fines, penalties and there could be a material adverse effect injunctive or administrative remedies, Adverse outcomes in legal matters and onthe Companys revenues, financial distract management to the detriment of other disputes, including the Companys condition or results of operations.
The the business, result in the exclusion of ability to enforce and defend patents Companys revenues, financial condition or certain products, or the Company, from and other intellectual property rights results of operations may also be affected government reimbursement programs or required for its business, could have by fluctuations in customer buying or subject the Company to regulatory controls amaterial adverse effect on the distribution patterns.
These fluctuations or government monitoring of its activities Companys revenues, financial may result from seasonality, pricing, inthe future.
The Company is also subject conditionor results of operations.
wholesaler inventory objectives, or other to certain ongoing investigations by During the ordinary course of its business factors.
A significant portion of the Companys governmental agencies.
For further the Company may be involved in claims, revenues for certain products for treatment information, see Note 18, Commitments disputes and litigation with third parties, of rare diseases are concentrated within and Contingencies, Legal and other employees, regulatory agencies, asmall number of customers.
Changes proceedings to the consolidated financial governmental authorities and other parties.
inthe buying patterns of those customers statements set forth in this Annual Report.
The range of matters of a legal nature that may have an adverse effect on the Companys might arise is extremely broad but could The Companys products are subject revenues, financial condition or results include, without limitation, intellectual tointense competition from generics.
property claims and disputes, product Shire faces significant competition from the Failure to comply with laws and liability claims and disputes, regulatory manufacturers of generic drug products in regulations governing the sales and litigation, contract claims and disputes, all of its major markets.
The introduction of marketing of its products could materially employment claims and disputes, and lower-priced generics by the Companys impact Shires revenues and profitability.
taxor other governmental agency audits competitors or their successful efforts in and disputes.
The Company engages in various aggressively commercializing and marketing marketing, promotional and educational their alternative drug products pose activities pertaining to, as well as the sale significant challenges to maintaining Shires market share, revenues and sales growth.
40 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Any unfavorable outcome in such matters Moreover, even when such transactions are shareholders may initiate legal action could adversely impact the Companys successfully executed, the Company may toprevent or delay consummation ability to develop or commercialize its face subsequent difficulties in integrating ofaproposed acquisition or to seek products, adversely affect the profitability the operations, infrastructure and personnel judicialreevaluation of a proposed of existing products, subject the Company of acquired businesses and may experience acquisitions consideration: to significant defense costs, fines, penalties, unanticipated risks or liabilities that were a lengthy, uncertain process when audit findings and injunctive or administrative not discovered, accurately disclosed pursuing a combination could disrupt remedies, distract management to the orsufficiently assessed during the relationships between Shire and a target detriment of the business, result in the transactions due diligence process.
companys customers, suppliers and exclusion of certain products, or the Company, Finally, even successfully acquired and employees, distract Shires or a targets from government reimbursement programs integrated businesses may ultimately fail management from operating its business, or subject the Company to regulatory orfall short of achieving the Companys and could lead to additional and controls or government monitoring of its strategic objectives for the transaction unanticipated costs: activities in the future.
Any such outcomes overthe long term.
a target company may be unable to could have a material adverse effect on Any failures in the execution of a transaction, retain and hire key personnel and or theCompanys revenue, financial condition in the integration of an acquired business maintain its relationships with customers, or results of operations.
For further or in achieving the Companys strategic suppliers and other business partners information see Note 18, Commitments objectives with respect to such acquisitions pending the consummation of the and Contingencies, Legal and other could result in slower growth, higher than proposed acquisition by Shire: proceedings to the consolidated financial expected costs, the recording of asset after the consummation of an acquisition, statements set forth in this Annual Report.
impairment charges and other actions the Company may be unable to retain The Company faces intense competition which could adversely affect the Companys theacquired companys key personnel, for highly qualified personnel from other business, financial condition and results existing customers, suppliers and companies and organizations.
otherbusiness partners or attract The Company relies on recruiting and newcustomers: The Company has recently completed and retaining highly skilled employees to meet is currently pursuing a number of strategic the businesses of an acquired company its strategic objectives.
On February 21, 2015, Shire may be otherwise disrupted by the intense competition for highly qualified completed the acquisition of NPS Pharma acquisition, including increased costs personnel and the supply of people with for a total cash consideration of and diversion of its respective the requisite skills may be limited, generally approximately $5.2 billion.
On January 22, managements time and resources: or geographically.
The range of skills 2016 Shire also completed the acquisition failure to achieve the targeted growth required and the geographies in which of all the outstanding share capital of and expected benefits of the acquisition theyare required by the Company may Dyaxfor a total upfront cash consideration if sales of an acquired companys alsochange over time as Shires business of approximately $5.9 billion and a products are lower than anticipated, or evolves.
If the Company is unable to retain furtherapproximately $0.6 billion in cash these products cannot be successfully key personnel or attract new personnel consideration contingent upon the commercialized or cannot obtain with the requisite skills and experience, it approvalof DX-2930 for the prophylactic necessary regulatory approvals: could adversely affect the implementation treatment of HAE.
Finally, on January 11, of the Companys strategic objectives and any integration of an acquired company 2016 Shire announced a combination with ultimately adversely impact the Companys into Shire could be complex and Baxalta Incorporated had been agreed by revenues, financial condition or results time-consuming, and difficulties in both Boards.
effectuating these integrations may lead These proposed and completed to the combined companies not being Failure to successfully execute or attain acquisitions as well as future acquisitions able to realize the expected operating strategic objectives from the Companys each entail various risks, which include but efficiencies, cost savings, revenue acquisitions and growth strategy may are not limited to: enhancements, synergies or other benefits adversely affect the Companys financial in the timeframe anticipated, or at all: condition and results of operations.
a proposed acquisition may not be failure to successfully obtain regulatory consummated due to the occurrence of The Companys business depends to a approval of an acquired companys late an event, change or other circumstances significant extent on its ability to improve stage pipeline assets in a timely manner that gives rise to the termination of the and expand its product pipeline through or at all, or to successfully commercialize applicable merger agreement: strategic acquisitions.
Such improvements such products after regulatory approval and expansions, however, are subject to a governmental, regulatory, board, has been obtained: the ability of the Companys management shareholder or other approval required undiscovered or unanticipated risks and to effectively identify appropriate strategic for a proposed acquisition may not be liabilities, including legal and compliance targets and effectuate the contemplated obtained, or may be obtained subject related liabilities, may emerge in transactions, the availability and relative toconditions that are not anticipated, connection with an acquisition, or cost of acquisition opportunities as well oranother condition to the closing maybe higher than anticipated: and ascompetition from other pharmaceutical ofaproposed acquisition may not companies seeking similar opportunities.
besatisfied, resulting in delays or even after successfully completing an ultimate failure of consummating acquisition and integrating the acquired aproposed acquisition: companys businesses into Shire, the anticipated benefits of the combinations may ultimately prove less than anticipated.
Shire Annual Report 2015 41 Principal risks and uncertainties continued A slowdown of global economic growth, The failure of a strategic partner to Companys revenues, financial condition or or economic instability of countries in develop and commercialize products results of operations.
which the Company does business, could result in delays in development, The Company intends to enforce its patent could have negative consequences for approval or loss of revenue.
rights vigorously and believes that its the Companys business and increase The Company enters into strategic commercial partners, licensors and third the risk of non-payment by the partnerships with other companies in areas party manufacturers intend to enforce Companys customers.
such as product development, manufacturing, vigorously those patent rights they have Growth of the global pharmaceutical sales and marketing.
In these partnerships, licensed to the Company.
However, the market has become increasingly tied to the Company is sometimes dependent on Companys patent rights, and patent rights global economic growth.
Accordingly a its partner to deliver results.
While these that the Company has licensed, may not substantial and lasting slowdown of the partnerships are governed by contracts, provide valid patent protection sufficiently global economy, or major national economies, the Company may not exercise direct control.
broad to prevent any third party from could negatively affect growth in the If a partner fails to perform or experiences developing, using or commercializing markets in which the Company operates.
financial difficulties, the Company may products that are similar or functionally Such a slowdown, or any resultant austerity suffer a delay in the development, a delay equivalent to the Companys products or measures adopted by governments in in the approval or a reduction in sales, or technologies.
These patent rights may be response to a slowdown, could result in royalties of a product.
challenged, revoked, invalidated, infringed national governments making significant or circumvented by third parties.
Laws The failure to secure new products or cuts to their public spending, including relating to such rights may in future also compounds for development either national healthcare budgets, or reducing bechanged or withdrawn.
through in-licensing, acquisition or the level of reimbursement they are willing internal research and development and able to provide to the Company for Additionally, the Companys products, or efforts, or the failure to realize expected itsproducts and, as a result, adversely the technologies or processes used to benefits from acquisitions of businesses affect the Companys revenues, financial formulate or manufacture those products or products, may have an adverse condition or results of operations.
may now, or in the future, infringe the impact on the Companys future results.
patent rights of third parties.
It is also A slowdown of a nations economy could The Companys future results will depend, possible that third parties will obtain patent also lead to financial difficulties for some to a significant extent, upon its ability to or other proprietary rights that might be ofthe Companys significant customers, develop, in-license or acquire new products necessary or useful for the development, including national governments, and result or compounds, or to acquire other manufacture or sale of the Companys in a greater risk of delayed orders or businesses.
The expected benefits from products.
The Company may need to payments, defaults or non-payments of acquired products, compounds or obtain licenses for intellectual property outstanding payment obligations by the businesses may not be realized or may rights from others and may not be able Companys customers in that country, require significantly greater resources and toobtain these licenses on commercially which could adversely affect the expenditure than originally anticipated.
reasonable terms, if at all.
Companys revenues, financial condition Thefailure to realize expected benefits from orresults of operations.
The Company also relies on trade acquisitions of businesses or products including those resulting from integration secretsand other un-patented proprietary The Company is subject to evolving and information, which it generally seeks to into the Company, or the failure to develop, complex tax laws, which may result in in-license or acquire new products or protect by confidentiality and nondisclosure additional liabilities that may adversely agreements with its employees, consultants, compounds on a commercially viable affect the Companys financial condition basis, could have a material adverse effect advisors and partners.
These agreements or results of operations.
may not effectively prevent disclosure of on the Companys revenues, financial The Company is subject to evolving and condition or results of operations.
confidential information and may not complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in provide the Company with an adequate which it operates, and routinely obtains The Company may fail to obtain, remedy in the event of unauthorized advice on matters, including the tax maintain, enforce or defend the disclosure.
In addition, if the Companys treatment of the break fee received in intellectual property rights required employees, scientific consultants or connection with the terminated offer for toconduct its business.
partners develop inventions or processes Shire by AbbVie Inc. AbbVie in 2014.
The Companys success depends upon that may be applicable to the Companys Significant judgment is required in determining itsability and the ability of its partners products under development, such the Companys tax liabilities, and the andlicensors to protect their intellectual inventions and processes will not necessarily Companys tax returns are periodically property rights.
Where possible, the become the Companys property, but may examined by various tax authorities.
Companys strategy is to register intellectual remain the property of those persons or TheCompany regularly assesses the property rights, such as patents and their employers.
likelihood of outcomes resulting from these trademarks.
The Company also relies on The Company has filed applications to examinations to determine the adequacy various trade secrets, unpatented knowregister various trademarks for use in ofits accrual for tax contingencies: how and technological innovations and connection with its products in various however, due to the complexity of tax contractual arrangements with third countries and also, with respect to certain contingencies, the ultimate resolution of partiesto maintain its competitive position.
products, relies on the trademarks of third any tax matters may result in payments The failure to obtain, maintain, enforce parties.
These trademarks may not afford greater or less than amounts accrued.
ordefend such intellectual property rights, adequate protection or the Company or the Inaddition, the Company may be affected for any reason, could allow third parties to third parties may not have the financial by changes in tax laws, including tax make competing products or impact the resources to enforce their rights under ratechanges, new tax laws, and revised Companys ability to develop, manufacture these trademarks which may enable  in domestic and and market its own products on a othersto use the trademarks and dilute foreignjurisdictions.
commercially viable basis, or at all, which their value.
could have a material adverse effect on the 42 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information In the regular course of business, the liability claims, product recalls, litigation pose difficulties in maintaining data integrity Company is party to litigation or other and associated adverse publicity.
The ever-increasing use proceedings relating to intellectual costof defending against such claims is and evolution of technology, including propertyrights.
For details of current expensive even when the claims are not cloud-based computing, creates intellectual property litigation, See Note 18, merited.
A successful product liability claim opportunities for the unintentional Commitments and Contingencies, Legal against the Company could require the dissemination or intentional destruction and other proceedings to the consolidated Company to pay a substantial monetary ofconfidential information stored in the financial statements set forth in this award.
If, in the absence of adequate Companys systems.
The Company and its AnnualReport.
insurance coverage, the Company does vendors could also be susceptible to third not have sufficient financial resources to party attacks on their information security The introduction of new products by satisfy a liability resulting from such a claim systems, which attacks are of ever competitors may impact future revenues.
or to fund the legal defense of such a claim, increasing levels of sophistication and are The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and it could become insolvent.
Product liability made by groups and individuals with device industries are highly competitive and insurance coverage is expensive, difficult awide range of motives and expertise, are characterized by substantial investment toobtain and may not be available in the including criminal groups, hackers and in continuous product development and future on acceptable terms.
While the Company has taken steps technological change.
The Company Company carries product liability insurance to protect such information and invested facessignificant competition from large when available, this coverage may not be heavily in information technology, there pharmaceutical and biotechnology adequate.
In addition, it cannot be certain canbe no assurance that these efforts will companies, many of whom have that insurance coverage for present or prevent service interruptions or security substantially greater resources than the future products will be available.
Moreover, breaches in its systems, the loss of data Company.
In addition, many of the an adverse judgment in a product liability orother confidential information due to a Companys competitors have more products suit, even if insured or eventually overturned lackof redundant backup systems, or the and have operated longer in the fields in on appeal, could generate substantial unauthorized or inadvertent wrongful use which the Company competes.
A number negative publicity about the Companys or disclosure of confidential information of companies are pursuing the development products and business and inhibit or that could adversely affect the Companys of technologies which compete with the prevent commercialization of other products.
business operations or result in the loss, Companys existing products or research dissemination, or misuse of critical or The Company is dependent on programs.
These competitors include sensitive information.
information technology and its systems specialized pharmaceutical firms and large and infrastructure face certain risks, A breach of the Companys security pharmaceutical companies acting either including from service disruptions, the measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent independently or together with other loss of sensitive or confidential disclosure, unapproved dissemination, pharmaceutical companies.
Furthermore, information, cyber-attacks and other misappropriation or misuse of trade academic institutions, government security breaches or data leakages that secrets, proprietary information, or other agencies and other public and private could have a material adverse effect confidential information, whether as a result organizations conducting research may onthe Companys revenues, financial of theft, hacking, fraud, trickery or other seek patent protection and may establish condition or results of operations.
forms of deception, or for any other cause, collaborative arrangements for competitive could enable others to produce competing products or programs.
As a result of this The Company relies to a large extent products, use the Companys proprietary competition the Companys products uponsophisticated information technology technology or information, and or adversely couldbe rendered obsolete or uneconomic systems to operate its businesses.
In the affect the Companys business position.
or lose market share following the ordinary course of business, the Company Further, any such interruption, security development of new products, new methods collects, stores and transmits large amounts breach, loss or disclosure of confidential of treatment, or technological advances of confidential information including, but information, could result in financial, legal, inmanufacturing or production by not limited to, personal information and business, and reputational harm to the competitors which could adversely affect intellectual property, and it is critical that Company and could have a material the Companys revenues, financial the Company does so in a secure manner adverse effect on the Companys revenues, condition, and results of operations.
to maintain the confidentiality and integrity financial condition or results of operations.
The If a marketed product fails to work sizeand complexity of the Companys In addition, legislators and or regulators in effectively or causes adverse side information technology and information countries in which the Company operates effects, this could result in damage security systems, and those of third-party are increasingly adopting or revising privacy, tothe Companys reputation, the vendors with whom the Company contracts information security and data protection withdrawal of the product and legal and the large amounts of confidential laws, as well as focusing on increased action against the Company.
information that is present on them, make privacy-related enforcement activity, that Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable such systems potentially vulnerable to potentially could have a significant impact publicity from complaints concerning any service interruptions or to security breaches on the Companys current and planned of the Companys products, or those of its from inadvertent or intentional actions by privacy, data protection and information competitors, could have an adverse effect the Companys employees or vendors, or security-related practices, its collection, on the Companys ability to obtain or from attacks by malicious third parties.
use, sharing, retention and safeguarding maintain regulatory approvals or ofconsumer and or employee information, The Company and its vendors successfully market its products.
The and some of its current or planned sophisticated information technology testing, manufacturing, marketing and business activities.
operations are spread across multiple, sales of pharmaceutical products and sometimes inconsistent platforms, which medical devices entail a risk of product Shire Annual Report 2015 43 Principal risks and uncertainties continued impose requirements, limitations or costs opinion delivered by such advisor on the Risks related to the or require divestitures or place restrictions date immediately prior to the signing of the proposed merger with on the conduct of the combined companys merger agreement.
Certain conditions to Baxalta Incorporated business.
The required approvals may not the merger may not be satisfied or, if they be obtained or the required conditions to are, the timing of such satisfaction is Failure to consummate the merger as the merger may not be satisfied, or, even uncertain.
If any conditions to the merger contemplated could negatively impact ifthe required approvals are obtained and are not satisfied or, where waiver is the price of the Companys ordinary the conditions to the consummation of the permitted by applicable law, not waived, shares and ADSs and the future merger are satisfied, the terms, conditions the merger will not be consummated.
business and financial results of the and timing of such approvals are uncertain.
Company and or the combined company.
The merger is not subject to a financing Any delay in consummating the merger condition.
While Shire has secured an The consummation of the merger of could cause Shire and or the combined $18billion fully underwritten bank facility BearTracks, Inc. a wholly-owned company not to realize some or all of the ofwhich $13 billion is available to finance subsidiary of the Company Merger Sub synergies that Shire expects to achieve if the cash component of the per share within and into Baxalta, with Baxalta the merger is successfully consummated merger consideration, certain customary surviving the merger as a wholly-owned within the expected time frame.
conditions precedent to funding must be subsidiary of the Company the merger The merger remains subject to additional satisfied in order for the Company to utilize may be delayed, the merger may be conditions, some of which Shire and its bank facility, and if such conditions are consummated on terms different than Baxalta cannot control, which could not satisfied or if the Companys lenders those contemplated by Agreement and result in the merger not being donot satisfy their funding commitment, Plan of Merger, dated as of January 11, consummated or being delayed, any of the Company may be unable to obtain the 2016, as it may be amended from time which could negatively impact the share funds necessary to consummate the merger.
totime, the merger agreement between price and future business and operating the Company, Merger Sub andBaxalta, If for any reason the merger is not results of the Company and or the orthe merger may not be consummated completed, or the closing of the merger is combined company.
Failure to consummate the merger significantly delayed, the market price of would prevent the Companys ordinary The merger is subject to the satisfaction the Companys ordinary shares and ADSs shareholders from realizing the anticipated orwaiver of other conditions in addition to and business and results of operations of benefits of the merger.
The current market the approval of governmental authorities the Company and or the combined price of the Companys ordinary shares described above, including, but not limited company may be adversely affected.
and ADSs may reflect a market assumption to, i the approval of the issuance of that the merger will occur, and a failure to ordinary shares and ADSs by the Lawsuits have been filed, and other consummate the merger could result in a Companys ordinary shareholders: ii the lawsuits may be filed, against the significant decline in the market price of the adoption of the merger agreement by the Company and Baxalta and Baxaltas Companys ordinary shares and ADSs and stockholders of Baxalta: iii effectiveness board of directors challenging the merger, a negative perception of the Company of a registration statement on Form S-4 and an adverse ruling in any such lawsuit generally.
Anydelay in the consummation registering ordinary shares to be issued in may delay or prevent the completion of the merger or any uncertainty about the the merger: iv the absence of any orders, ofthe merger or result in an award consummation of the merger could also injunctions or rulings, or laws that would ofdamages against the Company.
negatively impact the share price and have the effect of enjoining or preventing Multiple putative class action complaints future business and financial results of the the consummation of the merger: v the have been filed by purported Baxalta Company and or the combined company approval of the United Kingdom Listing stockholders in connection with the following the proposed merger.
Authority the UKLA of a prospectus merger.
The complaints generally allege relating to the ordinary shares and a circular that the members of the Baxalta board There is no assurance that Shire and convening a meeting of Shires ordinary breached their fiduciary duties to Baxalta Baxalta will be able to obtain the shareholders: vi approval from the NASDAQ stockholders by entering into the merger required governmental and regulatory Global Select Market to list the ADSs: agreement and approving the merger, and approvals to consummate the merger, vii approval of the UKLA and London that the Company, Baxalta and or Merger which, if delayed or not granted, may Stock Exchange to list the ordinary shares: Sub, aided and abetted such breaches of delay or jeopardize the merger.
and viii Section 4.02 of the tax matters fiduciary duties.
The complaints further The merger is conditioned on the expiration agreement dated as of June 30, 2015 allege that, among other things, the per or termination of the applicable waiting thetax matters agreement, by and share merger consideration undervalues period or extension thereof under the between Baxter International Inc. Baxter Baxalta and certain provisions of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements and Baxalta, shall have been waived merger agreement inappropriately inhibit Act of 1976, as amended, merger control withrespect to the closing of the merger, competing bids.
The complaints seek, approval under the relevant merger pursuant to the terms of the letter among other things, to enjoin the merger.
controllaws of the European Union and agreement, dated as of January 11, 2016 theconsent of certain other merger control Additional lawsuits arising out of or relating the letter agreement, among the authorities and other governmental entities.
to the merger agreement or the merger Company, Baxter and Baxalta, and each The governmental and regulatory agencies may be filed in the future.
The results of ofthe Company and Baxalta shall have from which Shire and Baxalta are seeking complex legal proceedings are difficult received from Baxter a certificate, as these approvals have broad discretion in topredict and could delay or prevent the described in the letter agreement, to the administering the applicable governing completion of the merger.
The existence effect that the tax advisor to Baxter has regulations.
As a condition to their approval oflitigation relating to the merger could furnished an opinion in substantially the of the transactions contemplated by the impact the likelihood of obtaining the same form and substance as the tax merger agreement, those agencies may 44 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information stockholder approvals from either the Upon termination of the merger agreement other decisions concerning, or seeking to Company or Baxalta.
Moreover, the pending in specified circumstances, the Company change existing business relationships with litigation is, and any future additional would be required to disburse a termination the Company, and following the closing litigation could be, time consuming and fee equal to $369 million to Baxalta and or ofthe merger, the combined company.
expensive and could divert the Companys reimburse Baxalta for its merger-related Because the Company depends on the managements attention away from their expenses in an amount not to exceed experience and industry knowledge of regular business.
$65million, which expense reimbursement theirexecutives and other key personnel to would be offset against any termination execute their business plans, the combined One of the conditions to completion of feesubsequently disbursed.
Following company may be unable to meet its themerger is the absence of any law or thedisbursement of the termination fee strategic objectives.
judgment issued by any court or tribunal and orreimbursement of merger-related ofcompetent jurisdiction that prevents, While the merger is pending, the Company expenses, the Company will, other than makes illegal or prohibits the closing of may not be able to hire qualified personnel incertain circumstances, have no further themerger.
Accordingly, if a plaintiff is to replace any key employees that may obligation or liabilities to Baxalta.
Such successful in obtaining a judgment depart to the same extent that they have termination would deny the Company and prohibiting completion of the merger, then been able to in the past.
In addition, if the its respective stockholders any benefits such judgment may prevent the merger merger is not completed, the Company from the merger and could negatively from being completed, or from being may also encounter challenges in hiring impact market price of the Companys completed within the expected time frame.
qualified personnel to replace key employees ordinary shares and ADSs.
that may depart the Company subsequent If the proposed merger is not completed, These provisions could discourage a third to the merger announcement.
the Company will have incurred party that may have an interest in acquiring substantial costs that may adversely all or a significant part of the Company from Risks related to the affect the Companys financial results considering or proposing that acquisition, combined company and operations.
even if such third party were prepared to The Company has incurred and will continue following the merger enter into a transaction that is more favorable to incur substantial costs in connection to the Company or the Companys ordinary The Company may not successfully with the proposed merger with Baxalta.
integrate the businesses of Shire These costs are primarily associated with andBaxalta.
In specified circumstances, Baxalta the fees of attorneys, accountants and If the merger is consummated, achieving could terminate the merger agreement financial advisors.
In addition, the Company the anticipated benefits of the proposed to accept an alternative proposal.
diverted significant management resources combination of Shire and Baxalta will in an effort to complete the merger and Under the merger agreement, Baxalta may depend in part upon whether the two aresubject to restrictions contained in the terminate the merger agreement to enter companies integrate their businesses merger agreement on the conduct of the into a definitive agreement with respect to inaneffective and efficient manner.
The Companys business during the pendency acompany superior proposal as such Company may not be able to accomplish of the merger.
If the merger is not completed, term is defined in the merger agreement this integration process successfully.
the Company will have received little or no prior to obtaining approval of the merger Theintegration of businesses is complex benefit in respect of such costs incurred.
The difficulties that event, Baxalta would be obligated to disburse The merger agreement restricts the could be encountered include the following: a termination fee equal to $369 million, Companys ability to pursue alternatives butwould have no further obligation or integrating personnel, operations and to the merger, however, in specified liabilities to the Company.
Such termination systems, while maintaining focus on circumstances, the Company may would deny the Company and its selling and promoting existing and newly terminate the merger agreement to stockholders any benefits from the merger acquired or produced products: accept a superior proposal.
and could negatively impact the price of coordinating geographically dispersed Under the merger agreement, the Company the Companys ordinary shares and ADSs.
organizations: has agreed not to 1 take certain actions Uncertainties associated with the tosolicit proposals relating to alternative distraction of management and merger may cause a loss of employees business combination transactions or employees from operations: and may otherwise affect the future 2 subject to certain exceptions, including changes or conflicts in corporate culture: business and operations of Shire and the receipt of a parent superior proposal managements inability to manage the combined company.
as such term is defined in the merger asubstantial increase in the number agreement, enter into discussions or Uncertainty about the effect of the merger ofemployees: anagreement concerning, or provide on employees and customers may have confidential information in connection anadverse effect on the Company and, if managements inability to train and with, any proposals for alternative business the proposed combination with Baxalta is integrate personnel, who may have combination transactions.
However, in consummated, on the combined company limited experience with the respective specified circumstances, the Company following the merger.
These consequent companies business lines and products, may terminate the merger agreement uncertainties may impair the Companys, and to deliver a consistent message toenter into a definitive agreement with and following the closing of the merger, regarding diseases treated by the response to a parent superior proposal thecombined companys, ability to retain combined company: prior to obtaining approval of the merger and motivate key personnel and could also retaining existing customers and from its stockholders.
cause customers, suppliers, licensees, attracting new customers: partners and other business partners to retaining existing employees and defer entering into contracts with, making attracting new employees: Shire Annual Report 2015 45 Principal risks and uncertainties continued maintaining business relationships: and The Company intends to refinance the shareholders of Baxter the spin-off bank facility through capital market debt and or a Later Distribution, collectively the inefficiencies associated with the issuances in due course.
Its ability to Baxter Transactions, are determined to integration and management of the refinance the indebtedness will depend on be taxable as a result, in whole or in part, operations of the combined company.
the condition of the capital markets and the of the merger for example, if the merger In addition, there will be integration costs combined companys financial condition at isdeemed to be part of a plan, or series and non-recurring transaction costs such such time.
Any refinancing of indebtedness ofrelated transactions, that includes as fees paid to legal, financial, accounting could be at higher interest rates and may theBaxter Transactions, Baxter and its and other advisors and other fees paid in require the combined company to comply shareholders could incur significant tax connection with the merger associated with more onerous covenants, which could liabilities, and under the tax matters with the proposed merger, including costs further restrict business operations and agreement, and the letter agreement, associated with combining their operations such refinancing may not be available at all.
Baxalta and the Company may be required and achieving the synergies the Company to indemnify Baxter for any such tax Moreover, the combined company may expects to obtain, and such costs may liabilities.
Baxters waiver of the provisions berequired to raise substantial additional besignificant.
under the tax matters agreement restricting financing to fund capital expenditures and Baxaltas ability to enter into and An inability to realize the full extent of acquisitions.
The combined companys consummate the merger will not relieve theanticipated benefits of the proposed ability to arrange additional financing and Baxalta or the Company of its obligation to combination of Shire and Baxalta, including the costs of that financing will depend on, indemnify Baxter if the merger causes any estimated cost synergies, as well as any among other factors, the combined of the Baxter Transactions to be taxable.
delays encountered in the integration companys financial position and process and realizing such benefits, could performance, as well as prevailing market In connection with the signing of the have an adverse effect upon the revenues, conditions and other factors beyond merger agreement, the Company received level of expenses and operating results Shirescontrol.
an opinion from Cravath, Swaine & Moore ofthe combined company, which may LLP, tax counsel to the Company, to In any liquidation, dissolution or winding up materially adversely affect the value of theeffect that the merger will not cause of Shire, the Companys ordinary shares theCompanys ordinary shares and ADSs Baxters contribution of assets to Baxalta, and ADSs would rank below all debt claims after the consummation of the merger.
Baxters initial distribution of Baxalta shares against Shire or any of its subsidiaries.
In on July 1, 2015, Baxters distribution of The Company will incur significant addition, any convertible or exchangeable cash received from Baxalta to its creditors additional indebtedness in connection securities or other equity securities that or a Later Distribution to fail to qualify as with the merger, which will decrease the Shire may issue in the future may have tax-free to Baxter and its shareholders combined companys business flexibility rights, preferences and privileges more under Sections 355, 361 and 368 a 1 D and increase the its interest expense.
All favorable than those of the Companys ofthe Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as of the Companys debt obligations, and ordinary shares and ADSs.
The merger is conditioned on any future indebtedness the Company holders of the Companys ordinary shares the receipt by the Company at the time of may incur, will have priority over the and ADSs will not be entitled to receive the consummation of the merger of a tax Companys ordinary shares and ADSs anypayment or other distribution of assets opinion to the same effect.
with respect to payment in the event of upon any liquidation or dissolution until aliquidation, dissolution or winding up.
after Shires obligations to its debt holders The tax opinion referred to in the immediately and holders of equity securities, which rank The Company has secured an $18billion preceding paragraph is based upon various fully underwritten bank facility of which senior to the Companys ordinary shares factual representations and assumptions, and ADSs, have been satisfied.
$13billion is available to finance the cash as well as certain undertakings made by component of the per share merger the Company, Baxter and Baxalta.
If any The merger could result in significant consideration.
The Company has announced ofthe factual representations or the liability to Baxalta and the Company if the that it intends to maintain an investment assumptions in the tax opinion is untrue the merger causes the spin-off of Baxalta grade credit rating for the combined orincomplete in any material respect, an from Baxter or a Later Distribution, company, but one or more credit rating undertaking is not complied with or the asdefined below, to be taxable.
agencies may determine that the facts upon which the tax opinion is based Under the letter agreement, from and after combinedcompanys credit rating is are materially different from the facts at the the closing of the merger, Baxalta agreed belowinvestment grade, which could time of the merger, the opinion may not be to indemnify, and the Company agreed to increase the combined companys valid.
Moreover, opinions of counsel are guarantee such indemnity to, Baxter and borrowing costs.
The combined companys notbinding on the Internal Revenue each of its affiliates and each of their indebtedness following consummation of Service the IRS.
As a result, the respective officers, directors and employees the merger could have the effect, among conclusions expressed in the tax opinion against certain tax-related losses other things, of reducing the combined could be challenged by the IRS.
None attributable to, or resulting from, in whole companys flexibility to respond to changing ofthe Company, Baxalta or Baxter has or in part, the merger.
If the contribution of business and economic conditions as requested a ruling from the IRS regarding property by Baxter in one or more transfers wellas reducing funds available for capital the impact of the merger on the tax to Baxalta in exchange for shares of expenditures, acquisitions, and creating treatment of the Baxter Transactions.
Baxalta common stock, cash, and the competitive disadvantages for the combined Further, the tax opinion does not address assumption of certain liabilities, together company relative to other companies with all tax aspects of the spin-off, a Later with the distribution or exchange by Baxter lower indebtedness levels.
The Company Distribution and other related transactions on July 1, 2015 of approximately 80.5% will also incur various costs and expenses and it is possible the Company may be ofthe shares of Baxalta common stock to associated with the debt financing.
obligated to indemnify Baxter despite the continuing validity of the tax opinion.
46 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Companys indemnification obligations benefit of the underlying agreement and outstanding following a future issuance, to Baxter and its subsidiaries, officers, incur liabilities or replacement costs, which sale or transfer of such ordinary shares or directors and employees under the tax could have an adverse effect on the ADSs by the Company or the possibility of matters agreement and letter agreement combined company.
such an issue, sale or transfer may lead to are not limited in amount or subject to any sales of such shares or the perception that Sales of the Companys ordinary shares cap.
If Baxalta or the Company is required such sales may occur, either of which may and or ADSs in anticipation of the merger, to indemnify Baxter and its subsidiaries adversely affect the market for, and the and resales of such shares following the and their respective officers, directors and market price of, the Companys ordinary consummation of the merger may employees under the circumstances set shares or ADSs.
adversely affect the market price of the forth in the tax matters agreement, as Companys ordinary shares and or ADSs The market price of the Companys supplemented by the letter agreement, prior to, and following, the merger.
ordinary shares and ADSs may be itcould have a material adverse effect adversely affected by reports of Certain Baxalta stockholders, such as onBaxalta and the Company.
third-party analysts published in index funds or funds with concentration, In this annual report, references to the connection with the consummation geographic or other limitations on their Later Distributions includes the following ofthe merger.
permitted investments, may be required to transactions that may be undertaken by sell ordinary shares or ADSs of Shire that The trading market for the Companys Baxter: i any debt-for-equity exchange they receive in the merger.
Other Baxalta ordinary shares and ADSs depends in part and related underwritten offering with stockholders may already hold ordinary on the research and reports that third-party respect to Baxalta shares, ii any offer shares or ADSs of Shire and those securities analysts publish about Shire toexchange Baxter shares for Baxalta stockholders may decide not to hold the andits industry.
In connection with the shares, iii a contribution of Baxalta shares shares that they receive in the merger.
consummation of the merger, one or more to Baxters U. S. pension fund, and or Such sales of ordinary shares or ADSs of these analysts could downgrade the iv adividend of Baxalta shares to could adversely affect the market price of Companys ordinary shares and ADSs or Baxtersstockholders, in each case, that the Companys ordinary shares and or ADSs.
issue other negative commentary about are undertaken prior to the earlier of any Shire or its industry, which could cause the Upon consummation of the merger, the Baxalta or Company stockholder vote market price of the Companys ordinary Company expects that it will issue up to withrespect to the merger and that are shares and ADSs to decline.
approximately 311 million ordinary shares, intended to be part of a plan that includes based on the number of shares of Baxalta The market price of the Companys the spin-off.
common stock outstanding as of ordinary shares and ADSs may be Certain Baxalta agreements may contain December 31, 2015, in the aggregate.
In affected by factors different from those change of control provisions that may addition, the per share merger consideration affecting the market price for shares be triggered by the merger that, if not represents a premium of approximately ofthe Companys ordinary shares and waived, could cause the combined 37.5% to the unaffected share price of ADSs prior to the merger.
company to lose the benefit of such Baxalta common stock on August 3, 2015, If the merger is consummated, the risks agreement and incur liabilities or the day prior to the public announcement associated with the combined company replacement costs, which could have of the Companys initial offer for Baxalta, may affect the results of operations of the material adverse effect on the based on the closing price of the combined company and the market price combinedcompany.
Companys ADSs on January 8, 2016, of the Companys ordinary shares and Baxalta and its affiliates are each party which may cause significant arbitrage ADSs following the merger differently than tovarious agreements with third parties, activity by investors seeking to take they could affect the results of operations including certain license agreements, advantage of the price differential.
The risk of Shire and the market price of its business development-related agreements, of dilution coupled with the possibility of securities while it is a separate company.
production and distribution related merger arbitrage activity could result in Additionally, the results of operations of agreements, bonding financing facilities, downward pressure on the Companys thecombined company may be affected contracts for the performance of services ordinary shares and ADSs and encourage byadditional or different factors than material to the operations of Baxalta and or third parties to engage in short sales of the thosethat currently affect the results of its affiliates, IT contracts, technology Companys shares.
operations of Shire, including, but not licenses and employment agreements that limited to: complexities associated with In addition, these factors could also make may contain change of control provisions managing the larger, more complex, itmore difficult for the combined company that could be triggered upon the closing combined business: integrating personnel to raise funds through future offerings of ofthe merger.
Agreements with change of from the two companies while maintaining ordinary shares and ADSs.
The issuance control provisions typically provide for or focus on providing products and services: ofordinary shares and ADSs in the merger permit the termination of the agreement and potential performance shortfalls and the sale of additional ordinary shares upon the occurrence of a change of control resulting from the diversion of or ADSs that may become eligible for sale of one of the parties which can be waived managements attention caused by in the public market from time to time by the relevant counterparties.
In the integrating the companies operations.
uponexercise of options or the vesting of eventthat there is such a contract or restricted securities will further dilute the arrangement requiring a consent or waiver combined companys ordinary shares and in relation the merger, there can be no or ADSs.
Moreover, the increase in the assurance that such consent will be obtained number of ordinary shares or ADSs, or at all or on favorable terms.
If such a waiver anincrease in the number of such shares is not obtained from any such counterparty, the combined company could lose the Shire Annual Report 2015 47
