Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 Across the group, we manage risks within the overall An example of risk management in practice governance framework which includes clear accountabilities, We have a number of large assets which are particularly vital delegated authority limits and reward policies.
These are to our ability to continue to supply high quality water to our designed to provide employees with a holistic view of effective customers all of the time.
The key risks are reported to the Audit One of these is the Elan Valley Aqueduct, also known as Committee and discussed at the board every six months in the the EVA.
This asset transfers water from reservoirs in the form of risk maps.
In addition, individual risks or specic risk Elan Valley to Birminghams Frankley Reservoir, carrying topics are also discussed by the board during the year.
drinking water to supply Birmingham.
If the aqueduct were An overview of accountability for our ERM process is illustrated to be damaged, for example by extreme weather or by third in the below chart: parties, or if we experience major bursts on the aqueduct, this could result in an unacceptable disruption to supply to these customers.
We have concluded that we are carrying Managing risk an unacceptable level of long term risk, particularly in terms of loss of supply consequences in Birmingham.
Our AMP6 investment plans are to provide a full alternative supply to Birmingham which can be deployed in the event of a failure of the EVA, and allow extended outage periods to undertake The Board major maintenance or replacement activities as required.
The Birmingham alternative supply scheme will construct a new pumping station on the River Severn and an independent pipeline to Frankley Water Treatment Works.
The works will be upgraded to treat river water and will have two fully independent streams to provide resilience against major Executive Audit Committee Committee failure at the works and protect supplies to Birmingham.
Operational Enterprise Internal functions Risk Management Audit Financial risks Like all businesses, we need to plan future funding in line with business needs.
This is part of our normal business planning process see Principal risk 3.
The board receive regular updates relating to funding, solvency and liquidity matters.
Financial risks are discussed in detail on page 42.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 40 Principal risks The principal risks identied in our ERM process are set out below and are categorised across: customer operations, assets and people legal and regulatory financial risks For each risk we state what it means for us and what we are doing to manage it.
Principal risks Ref What is the risk?
Which part of Severn What does it mean for us?
What are we doing to manage the risk?
Customer perception 1 We may be unable to Severn Trent Water We are a regulated utility We have made changes to our organisational improve and maintain providingessential services to design to embed customers at the heart of what our levels of customer ourcustomers.
We recognise that we do, creating a Chief Customer officer role and service sufciently our customers increasingly expect bringing together our IS function, contact centres to deliver what our more from us, demanding higher and transformation teams.
customers tell us service levels.
Asother industries Providing the high quality service that our theywant.
improve their levels of service, the customers demand means we need the right bar is constantly being raised.
As part Failure to deliver the service of becoming a digitally savvy organisation we customers expect will lead to are investing in a new customer relationship customer dissatisfaction and we management system, which will draw together may suffer financial penalties customer information from across our systems under Ofwats Service Incentive giving us greater insight into the needs of our Mechanism.
We are also giving customers more choice in the way that they interact with us by introducing new contact channels such as web chat and mobile.
We know that providing great customer service needs the right resource so we have invested heavily in training our staff and added an additional 100 frontline roles.
To help make sure we continuously improve we are directly surveying thousands of customers each month to get feedback on their experience of contacting us enabling us to improve our service, spot trends and react to our customers needs.
2 We may be unable to Group-wide Competition will give business We are positioning our business to succeed in take full advantage of the customers increased choice and this market and are actively preparing for the opportunities presented will encourage companies to introduction of competition in non-household by the opening up of the provide a better service.
If we fail retail in England.
As part of our preparations we business retail market to keep pace with change or fail to have changed our processes to equip us with to competition.
recognise the needs of our business the technology to deliver outstanding service customers, we may lose customers tocustomers.
We may fail to Our strategy reects the needs of different successfully grow our business by customer groups, both large and small users being unable to develop sufciently and those users where water is critical to attractive services to win new theiroperations.
We are developing our service offering which includes, for example, services to help customers understand and reduce their water consumption.
We have recently restructured our business and we believe that our new organisation is in good shape to meet the needs of the changing market place.
We also have full representation on the OpenWater project helping to define the market rules, framework and systems for competition in the industry.
We will be rolling out refresher training in competition law to ensure that as we move into the new environment we can also maintain full compliance with the relevant legislation andregulations.
