Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties The Group risk register is reported formally to the Audit Committee twice This section describes the current principal risks and uncertainties facing a year and focused risk reporting on selected themes occurs on a quarterly the Group.
In addition to summarising the material risks and uncertainties, basis.
Additional information on the Groups internal control and risk the table below gives examples of how we mitigate those risks.
management processes is set out in the Corporate Governance Report The Group has a formal risk management framework embedded within the and the Audit Committee Report.
business to support the identification and effective management of risk For Corporate Governance report: pages 40-50 across the Group.
Detailed controls and any relevant action plans are prepared for the Audit The divisions within the Group are each responsible for managing and Committee as part of the formal half-yearly reporting process.
Additionally, reporting risk in accordance with the Groups risk management policy and we have established a procedure to monitor risks, and any changes thereto, standards that have been approved by the Audit Committee.
The risks are across the Group.
Any relevant information arising from such monitoring is then consolidated into a Group risk register which provides an overview of also reported to the Audit Committee.
the Group risk profile, taking into account the broader geographical spread and larger scale of the Group following the acquisitions of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia.
Description of risk Mitigation Market and competition: The Group operates in a highly competitive environment and faces The Group continues to make significant investments in innovation.
competition from a broad range of organisations.
Technological The Groups product development strategic aim is to be at the forefront developments also have the ability to create new forms of quickly of progressive technology.
Please see the Innovation section on page 7 of the Group Chief A failure to develop the Groups product proposition in line with Executives Statement for further details of these products.
changing market dynamics and expectations could erode the Groups competitive position.
The Group regularly reviews its pricing and packaging structures to ensure that its product proposition is appropriately placed within the market.
Great content is central to Skys product proposition and increased competition could impact the Groups ability to acquire content that The Group works closely with its marketing partners to ensure that the our customers want on commercially attractive terms.
value of its offering is understood and communicated effectively to its customers.
Economic conditions have been challenging in recent years across the territories in which the Group operates and the future remains The Group makes significant investment in the origination of content uncertain.
A significant economic decline in any of those territories as well as in acquisition from across the world.
could impact the Groups ability to continue to attract and retain The Group also works to develop and maintain the brand value associated customers in that territory.
32 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Description of risk Mitigation Regulatory breach and change: The Group is subject to regulation primarily under Austrian, German, The Groups ability to operate or compete effectively could be adversely Irish, Italian, UK and European Union legislation.
affected by the outcome of investigations or by the introduction of new laws, policies or regulations, changes in the interpretation or application The regimes which apply to the Groups business include, but are not of existing laws, policies and regulations, or failure to obtain required limited to: regulatory approvals or licences.
Please see page 36 of the Regulatory Broadcasting as a provider of audiovisual media services, the Group Matters section for further details.
is subject to Austrian, German, Italian and UK licensing regimes under The Group manages these risks through active engagement in the the applicable broadcasting and communications legislation.
These regulatory processes that affect the Groups business.
obligations include requirements to comply with relevant codes and directions issued by the relevant regulatory authorities, including The Group actively seeks to identify and meet its regulatory obligations for example, in the UK, Ofcoms Broadcasting Code, Code on the and to respond to emerging requirements.
This includes, for example: Scheduling of Television Advertising and Cross Promotions Code: Broadcasting compliance controls and processes are in place in the Technical services as a provider of certain technical services Groups content services.
Interaction with the relevant regulatory in the UK and Germany, Sky UK and Sky Deutschland are subject authorities is co-ordinated between the relevant local Compliance, to regulation in their respective countries: and Regulatory and Legal departments: Telecommunications Sky UK is subject to the General Conditions Technical services with respect to the provision of certain technical of Entitlement adopted under the Communications Act 2003 UK services in the UK and Germany, processes are in place to monitor and the Conditions for the provision of Electronic Communications third-party broadcaster access to the relevant broadcast platforms Networks and Services under the Communications Regulation Act and to ensure that this is provided on fair, reasonable and 2002 Ireland, which impose detailed requirements on providers non-discriminatory terms: of communications networks and services.
Telecommunications compliance controls and processes are in The Group is also subject to generally applicable legislation including, place in the UK and Ireland, overseen by the Customer Compliance but not limited to, competition antitrust, anti-bribery, consumer Committee, to monitor compliance and performance against the protection, data protection and taxation.
General Conditions of Entitlement and the Conditions for the provision of Electronic Communications Networks and Services.
The Group is currently, and may be in the future, subject to proceedings, and or investigation and enquiries from regulatory and antitrust The Group maintains appropriate oversight and reporting, supported authorities.
by training, to provide assurance that it is compliant with regulatory requirements.
Please see page 36 of the Regulatory Matters section for further details.
Customer service: A significant part of the Groups business is based on a subscription The Group strives consistently to exceed its customers expectations, model and its future success relies on building long-term relationships to put its customers first, to understand what they want and to be with its customers.
A failure to meet its customers expectations with responsive to what they say.
regards to service could negatively impact the Groups brand and The Group makes significant investments in order to deliver continuous competitive position.
development and improvement to its customer service capabilities, including investment in its contact centres across the UK and Ireland, insourcing of service centres in Germany and implementing ongoing training and development plans.
The Group tracks its customer service performance, benchmarks its customer service experience and strives to be best in class.
Technology and business interruption: The products and services that the Group provides to its customers The Group makes significant investment in technology infrastructure are reliant on complex technical infrastructure.
to ensure that it continues to support the growth of the business and has a robust selection and monitoring process of third-party providers.
A failure in the operation of the Groups key systems or infrastructure, such as the broadcast platform, customer management systems, The Group is committed to achieve best-in-class business continuity OTT platforms or the telecommunications networks on which the Group standards and makes significant investments in the resilience and relies, could cause a failure of service to our customers and negatively robustness of its business infrastructure.
The Group also organises regular scenario based group-wide business continuity exercises to ensure ongoing readiness of key staff, systems and sites.
Sky plc 33 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Mitigation Supply chain: The Group relies on a number of third parties and outsourced suppliers The Group continues to invest in its supply chain infrastructure to operating across the globe to support its supply chain.
support its business plan commitments.
A significant failure within the supply chain could adversely affect A robust supplier selection process is in place with appropriate the Groups ability to deliver products and service to its customers.
ongoing management and monitoring of key partners and suppliers.
The Group performs regular audits of key suppliers and of their installations and, wherever possible, has dual supply capability.
Financial: The effective management of its financial exposures is central to The Groups finance teams are embedded within the business to provide preserving the Groups profitability.
support to management and to ensure accurate financial reporting and tracking of our business performance.
Reporting on financial performance The Group is exposed to financial market risks and may be impacted is provided on a monthly basis to senior management and the Board.
negatively by fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates which create volatility in the Groups results to the extent that they are not The Group continually invests in the improvement of its systems and effectively hedged.
processes in order to ensure sound financial management and reporting.
Any increase in the financial leverage of the Group may limit the The Group manages treasury risk by minimising risk to capital and Groups financial flexibility.
providing appropriate protection against foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
The Group may also be affected adversely by liquidity and counterparty risks.
Cash investment is made in line with the Groups strict treasury policy which is approved by the Audit Committee and sets limits on deposits based on counterparty credit ratings.
No more than 10% of cash deposits are held with a single bank counterparty, with the exception of overnight deposits which are invested in a spread of AAAf rated liquidity funds.
All non-sterling debt is swapped at inception to ensure appropriate currency and interest rate protection is in place, and trading currency risk is hedged up to five years in advance.
The Group manages its tax risk by ensuring that risks are identified and understood at an early stage and that effective compliance and reporting processes are in place.
The Group continues to maintain an open and proactive relationship with the regulating tax authorities, primarily HM Revenue & Customs.
The Group aims to deal with taxation issues, wherever possible, as they arise in order to avoid unnecessary disputes.
Security: The Group must protect its customer and corporate data and the The Group takes measures ranging from physical and logical access safety of its people and infrastructure as well as needing to have controls to encryption, or equivalent technologies, raising employee in place fraud prevention and detection measures.
awareness and monitoring of key partners to manage its security risks.
The Group is responsible to third-party intellectual property owners The Group continues to invest in new technological controls and for the security of the content that it distributes on various platforms in improving broader business process and works closely with law Skys own and third-party platforms.
enforcement agencies and policy makers in order to protect its assets and to comply with its contractual obligations to third parties.
A significant breach of security could impact the Groups ability to operate and deliver against its business objectives.
34 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Description of risk Mitigation Projects: The Group invests in, and delivers, significant capital expenditure A common project management methodology is used to enable the Group projects in order to continually drive the business forward.
The level to manage, monitor and control its major capital expenditure projects of the Groups capital expenditure has increased as a result of the and strategic programmes.
This includes detailed reporting and regular increased size of the Groups business following completion of the reviews by senior management as well as cross-functional executive acquisitions of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia.
steering groups for major projects.
The failure to deliver key projects effectively and efficiently could Third-party partners will, where appropriate, be engaged to provide result in significantly increased project costs and impede our ability support and expertise in our large strategic programmes, complex to execute our strategic plans.
initiatives and for emerging technologies.
Intellectual property protection: The Group, in common with other service providers, relies on intellectual We maintain an ongoing programme to support appropriate protections property and other proprietary rights, including in respect of of our intellectual property and other rights.
This includes, for example, programming content, which may not be adequately protected the use of automated online monitoring tools, the implementation of under current laws or which may be subject to unauthorised use.
on-screen imprinting of content together with an active programme to protect our intellectual property rights.
People: Making Sky a great place to work is central to the Groups strategy.
The Group champions diversity and develops talent through a number People at Sky are critical to the Groups ability to meet the needs of activities, including the Graduate programme, Development Studio, of its customers and achieve its goals as a business.
an apprenticeship scheme and a leadership programme.
Failure to attract or retain suitable employees across the business The Group has well established channels and procedures to recruit and could limit the Groups ability to deliver its business plan commitments.
retain its employees, and to ensure that an adequate number of suitable employees work within its customer service teams and across all its operations.
Further details on our people is set out in the Employees section of the Directors Report on pages 7172.
