SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 42 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS PRINCIPAL RISKS Our approach to risk Our risk appetite The Group operates in global markets with long-term high growth Our approach to each risk varies depending on the circumstances and potential.
We are pursuing ambitious growth targets and are prepared we accept that over time, our approach towards each risk might change to accept a certain level of risk to remain competitive and to continue as our business or the external environment evolves.
operating in an ever-changing world.
We are very clear about the specific During the year, the Board took the opportunity as part of our Strategy risks our businesses face and the level of risk that we are prepared to Review to review our risk appetite in respect of our principal risks.
The accept in each part of our business.
We have put in place robust plans for results of our deliberations can be summarised in the adjacent table.
managing those risks, through elimination, avoidance or mitigation.
CATEGORY OF RISK RISK PARAMETERS Strategic In acquiring and developing new products and business models, moving into adjacent markets and technologies, organically or through acquisitions, and implementing innovative pricing strategies, we have a moderate to high tolerance for risk.
We are willing to take certain risks in pursuit of innovation and new business.
Moderate to high Operational In operating our business, managing our suppliers, keeping control of inventory and managing our talent and our facilities, we have a low to moderate tolerance for risk.
We aim to be as efficient as possible and adopt a cautious approach, but recognise that we need to take certain risks in order to take full advantage of the opportunities open Low to moderate to us.
Financial We recognise that sound financial controls are necessary in order to manage our business as effectively as possible.
We therefore have a low tolerance for risk relating to financial controls and require all our operations to comply with our minimum acceptable practices.
Low Compliance In complying with laws and regulations and in matters relating to bribery and corruption, product safety and patient and employee safety, we have an extremely low tolerance for risk.
Whilst we attempt to eradicate this risk completely, we recognise that, as in any human system, compliance failures may occur.
We will respond to issues Extremely low as they arise and will reassess our business scope where needed, if we judge there to be risk in these areas, which we cant manage.
Risk Management Activities in 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTING COUNCIL CHANGES RISK APPETITE We reviewed the Financial Reporting Council changes to the Corporate We spent time at the Strategy Review meeting in September Governance Code.
re-appraising our risk appetite for each of our principal risks.
In May, Deloitte assisted us in reviewing our risk management We undertook a black swan exercise, thinking about possible, programme in light of these changes.
yetunlikely, risks which could have a major impact on the Group werethey to occur.
In July 2015, the Audit Committee considered the recommendations from this review and how best to incorporate these changes into the In December 2015, the Board Development Session focused on risk Companys processes.
management and we further developed our tolerance for each risk.
This work was followed up in October 2015, when the Audit Committee further considered the reporting requirements around risk.
DEEP DIVES PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT In December 2015, the Audit Committee conducted a deep-dive into the We have expanded the annual certification to the Chief Executive processes to manage IT and Cyber Security risks as a follow up to work Officeron compliance with policies provided by all senior division undertaken in 2014. management to include risk management.
The deep dives planned for 2016 are: dependency on single source We have agreed to develop Key Risk Indicators KRI to provide or single site product supply: product quality and liability: and pricing information on the status of key risks and to assist with tracking on and reimbursement.
We have taken further risk specific actions, which are detailed in the risktable on pages 44 to 48.
Since the year end, in February 2016, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management process, considering the principal risks, actions taken by management to manage those risks and the Boards risk appetite in respect of each risk.
The Board considered that the risk management process was effective.
We recognise that this is an ongoing process and work will continue in 2016 and beyond to ensure that this remains the case.
com 43 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS PRINCIPAL RISKS Our risk management process The following chart shows how our risk management process is an integral part of our business.
Individual risk owners within the business areas carry out day-to-day risk management activities within the framework established by the risk management office, including the identification of risks, undertaking risk assessments and implementing mitigating actions.
These activities are reviewed by internal audit and other control functions, which provide assurance to the Group Risk Committee chaired by the Chief Executive and then to the Board and its committees.
Responsible for annual oversight of risk Group risk register management and for strategic risk review BOARD OF Monitors risks through Board processes DIRECTORS Strategy Review, Disclosures, M&A, AND BOARD Investments, Disposals and Committees COMMITTEES Audit and Ethics & Compliance, management reports and deep dives ofselected risk areas Audit Committee reviews effectiveness withsupport from Internal Audit Reviews external internal environment GROUP RISK foremerging risks COMMITTEE Reviews risk register updates from Business Areas Establishes Group Risk Register for significant risks INTERNAL AUDIT RISK BUSINESS QARA HSE MANAGEMENT AREAS BA COMPLIANCE OFFICE LEGAL Carries out day-to-day risk Establishes risk management framework Internal Audit reviews risk management management activities process periodically Facilitates implementation and Identifies risk and provides risk assessment coordination through Risk Champions All Control Functions provide independent assurance to management and Board on Implements strategy and actions to Provides resources and training to assertions of risk exposure address risk within business area support process Assigns Risk Owners to lead Prepares Board and Group Risk Committee mitigation actions reports based on Business Area and other updates Assigns Risk Champions to support semi-annual risk register updates SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 44 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS PRINCIPAL RISKS Our approach to risk continued The principal risks we have identified We have developed a detailed risk matrix, which is designed to rate any given risk.
We rate our risks according to the likelihood of occurrence and the impact.
The potential impact is assessed using the criteria below and others relating to matters such as Legal and other impacts: Financial Reputation Regulatory and Business interruption environment & safety HIGH Significant profit impact Extensive US EU national Product withdrawal or nonInterruption to critical activities for or significant reduction of international media scrutiny approval of key product: forced long term market value closure of critical facilities: material safety or environmental failures MEDIUM Moderate profit impact or Short-term national non US EU Key product delayed or withdrawn Interruption to critical activities in reduction inmarket value media coverage and disruption to for intermediate period: short-term short-term stakeholder confidence environmental damages LOW Low impact to revenue profit or Localised annoyance concern Regulatory action with fewer Impact can be absorbed within market value complaints: nomedia coverage issues, smaller products normal business operations involved: minor injuries or environmental impact The following pages provide an overview of what the Board considers to be our principal risks together with the actions management is taking to address them.
These are the risks, which could cause the Groups business, financial position and results of operations to differ materially and adversely from expected and historical levels.
Additional detail may be found on pages 171 and 174 under Group Risk Factors.
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT The medical devices industry has rapid new product innovation.
The sustainability of our business depends on finding and developing suitable products and solutions to meet the needs of our customers and patients to support long-term growth and securing appropriate protection for and defending our intellectual property.
Underlying risks Actions taken by management Insufficient innovation due to low R&D investment, R&D skills gap or Processes are focused on identifying new products and potentially poor product development execution.
Competitors may introduce a disruptive technology or Increasing prioritisation and allocation of funds for research business model.
Competitors may obtain patents or other intellectual property rights Pursuing business development opportunities, which augment that affect the Groups competitive position.
Failure to receive regulatory approval to commercialise a pipeline Implementing efficient processes to roll new products out product successfully.
Claims by third parties regarding infringement of their intellectual Proactively clearing new products from competitive patents and property rights.
monitoring pending competitor patent applications.
Monitoring of external market trends and collation of customer insights to develop product strategies.
Actions during 2015 Acquisitions of Blue Belt technologies and distributorships in Russia and Colombia.
Progressed the implementation of the SYNCERA business model.
com 45 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS PRINCIPAL RISKS ACQUISITIONS AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Failure to identify appropriate business development opportunities, to deliver value from our acquisitions or to integrate them effectively into the Group will impact our ability to achieve expected financial returns and lead to loss of reputation.
Underlying risks Actions taken by management Failure to identify appropriate acquisitions.
Acquisition activity is aligned with corporate strategy and prioritised towards products, franchises and markets identified to have the Ineffective acquisition due diligence.
Inflated forecasts or projections leading to over-valuation Clearly defined investment appraisal process based on return on of transaction.
capital, in accordance with Capital Allocation Framework.
Failure to embed Group standards, policies and financial controls Undertaking detailed and comprehensive cross-functional due quickly enough following acquisition.
Integration process may identify practices that need to be ceased to Implementing consistent integration processes designed to identify meet Group standards.
and mitigate risks in the early stages post completion.
Failure to learn from past actions.
Early embedding of our desired standards of compliance with laws, internal policies and controls.
Actions during 2015 Thorough due diligence undertaken for the acquisitions of Blue Belt Technologies and the distributorships on Colombia and Russia.
Comprehensive Integration programme continued for the acquisition of ArthroCare in 2014.
Post-acquisition review template revised to enable acquisitions to be evaluated on consistent basis.
GOVERNMENT ACTION, PRICING AND REIMBURSEMENT PRESSURE The success of our business depends on governments providing adequate funding to meet increasing demands arising from demographic trends.
The prices we charge are therefore impacted by budgetary constraints, economic and political considerations, fluctuations in exchange rates and our ability to persuade governments of the economic value of our products, based on clinical data, cost, patient outcomes and comparative effectiveness.
Underlying risks Actions taken by management Reduced reimbursement levels and increasing pricing pressures.
Developing innovative economic product and service solutions for both Established and Emerging Markets, such as SYNCERA.
Reduced demand for elective surgery.
Maintaining an appropriate breadth of portfolio and geographic Lack of compelling health economics data to support spread to mitigate exposure to localised risks.
Incorporating health economic components into the design and Government policies favouring lower prices and locally development of new products.
Emphasising value propositions tailored to specific Political upheavals prevent selling of products, receiving remittances stakeholders and geographies through strategic investment and of profit from a member of the Group or future investments in marketing programmes.
Optimising cost to serve to protect margins and liberate funds Economic downturn impacts demand and collections.
Trading margin will be impacted when the currencies in our Holding prices within acceptable ranges through global manufacturing countries US, UK, Costa Rica and China strengthen pricing corridors.
against the currencies in the rest or the world where our products are exported.
Transacting forward foreign currency commitments when firm purchase orders are placed to reduce exposure to currency fluctuations.
Actions during 2015 Launch of SYNCERA business model in Established Markets and commenced development of the SYNCERA range of mid-tier products in Emerging Markets.
Established Strategic Marketing programmes to develop the economic proposition to back the clinical data.
com 46 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS PRINCIPAL RISKS Our approach to risk continued BUSINESS OPERATIONS, SUPPLY CHAIN AND BUSINESS RECOVERY Our business depends on purchasing materials, efficient manufacturing, controlled inventory management and the timely supply of our products to our customers.
Some of our key products are reliant on one production facility or one supplier for raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials.
Underlying risks Actions taken by management Failure or performance issues at a critical single source facility or Ensuring emergency and incident management and business supplier of key products or services may impact revenues or profits.
recovery plans are in place at major facilities and for key products and key suppliers.
If a key facility were rendered unusable by a catastrophe, or we lost a number of leaders or employees in a catastrophe, business plans Validating second source for critical components or products.
and targets may not be met.
Undertaking of risk based review programmes for critical suppliers.
Over production of product inventory and instruments sets may Enhancing travel security and protection programme.
occur due to inadequate portfolio planning.
Developing improved regional inventory metrics to drive efficiency If we fail to properly manage our inventory and financial controls and harmonise demand signals with factory capacity constraints.
around inventory we may become overcapitalised or inaccurately Managing continued reduction in SKUs through product phase outs forecast and report data.
and formal review of slow moving and obsolete inventory.
Actions during 2015 Appointed new dedicated President of Global Operations and strengthened the supply chain organisation.
IT SYSTEM DISRUPTION AND CYBER CRIME Our business is heavily dependent on the integrity of our IT systems and the management of information.
At the same time, cybercrime is growing exponentially in frequency and sophistication and many IT systems are exposed to these threats.
Underlying risks Actions taken by management IT systems which support our business may be disrupted by Continuously improving the stability and reliability of IT systems man-made or natural forces or in the process of upgrades or new and infrastructure.
Ensuring IT disaster and data recovery plans are in place to support A severe IT service interruption, a cyber attack, the unauthorised overall business continuity plans.
access to or a misuse of sensitive information could disable critical Global management framework for the control and reporting of systems and cause loss of sensitive data with major impact for the access to our critical IT systems.
Company, including substantial revenue or profit loss as well as Following HMG GCHQ guidance, implementing the Cyber material reputational damage.
security roadmap with oversight from the Group Cyber Security Steering Committee.
Continuously improving controls relating to mobile device and removable media, network security and monitoring and malware protection and secure configuration.
Policies covering the protection of both business and personal information and the uses of IT systems by our employees.
Comprehensive IT security training programmes in place for employees.
Controls in place around the secure transmission of data.
Actions during 2015 Board undertook a deep dive into IT security and cyber crime in December 2015, reviewing the plans we have in place to tackle cyber crime.
com 47 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS PRINCIPAL RISKS TALENT RETENTION AND ORGANISATIONAL CHANGE Our people are critical to the success of our business and we need to attract, motivate and retain the best talent we can, not only for our current needs, but also looking ahead to the organisation of the future.
We therefore need effective succession planning atall levels and support for employees through periods of organisational change.
Underlying risks Actions taken by management Poor retention of high performing and high potential staff could Operating robust talent systems and processes with focus on jeopardise achieving objectives.
identifying key roles and successors.
Failure to ensure proactive talent management is undertaken Operating robust performance management programme, which effectively may result in business disruption.
includes regular performance reviews, underpinned by a common set of values.
Failure to support executives and employees affected through periods of organisational change could result in subEnhancing hiring process with rigorous screening and checks.
Running annual talent review process the results of which are reported up to the Board to aid discussions on succession planning.
Designing competitive management incentive packages.
Holding annual managing directors meeting and CEO Forum for high potential managers to encourage and develop internal talent.
Actions during 2015 Results of talent management process fed into the organisational changes implemented at the end of 2015.
Coached Senior Executives and managers on how to manage effectively through change.
Comprehensive change management programme rolled-out at multiple levels across the organisation.
Further embedded succession planning of key roles at all levels.
PRODUCT SAFETY, QUALITY, REGULATION AND LITIGATION Many of our products are designed to be implanted or used within the human body.
Product safety and quality is therefore of critical importance.
National regulatory authorities enforce a complex series of laws and regulations that govern the design, development, approval, manufacture, labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare products.
They also review data supporting the safety and efficacy of such products and may also inspect for compliance with appropriate standards, including those relating to Quality Management Systems or Good Manufacturing practice regulations.
Underlying risks Actions taken by management Defects in design or manufacturing products sold by the Group could Ensuring that we have comprehensive product quality processes lead to product recalls or product removal or result in loss of life or and controls from design to customer supply.
major injury, with negative financial and reputational impacts.
Ensuring that design for manufacture is embedded into If there is significant non-compliance with policy, regulations and product development.
standards governing products and operations regarding registration, Reviewing product safety and complaint data.
manufacturing, distribution, sales and marketing, then we could Standardising and monitoring compliance with Group quality suffer fines and impacts to reputation.
management and practices through Global Quality Assurance Failure in the design or manufacture of products supplied to the Regulatory Assurance organisation.
Company can impact the quality of products sold by the Company.
Incident management teams in place to respond in the event of an Failure to obtain proper approvals for new or changed incident relating to patient safety.
technologies, products or processes can result in product and registration deficiencies.
Actions during 2015 Failure to implement programmes and supporting resources to Appointed new dedicated President of Global Operations and ensure product quality and regulatory compliance.
strengthened the quality and regulatory function.
Failure to manage, process, respond to and analyse customer Improved performance of facilities undergoing audits by Federal complaints and adverse event data could lead to further deficiencies Drug Administration.
com 48 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS PRINCIPAL RISKS Our approach to risk continued REPUTATION, ETHICS, BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION There is increasing public scrutiny of ethics in business and doing the right thing has become part of our licence to operate.
Business practices in the healthcare industry are subject to increasing scrutiny by government authorities in many countries.
Weare also expected to have in place strong compliance programs under global anti-corruption laws and US healthcare laws.
Underlying risks Actions taken by management Failure to act in an ethical manner consistent with our code of Leadership from the top with Ethics & Compliance Committee conduct can lead to reputational damage.
at Board and Executive level overseeing our ethical and compliance practices.
Violation of global anti-corruption and healthcare laws.
All employees globally are required to certify compliance with Cultures in certain geographies and in acquired businesses may not our Code of Conduct and Global Policies and Procedures which fully support the Groups code of conduct.
provide guidelines for ethical behaviour and controls for significant Failure to conduct adequate due diligence or to integrate appropriate compliance risks.
internal controls into recently acquired businesses.
Training programmes in place for employees and third parties with An instance of fraud could severely impact our finances and ethical and compliance responsibilities and monitoring and auditing our reputation.
Serious compliance breach by employee or third party in an Independent reporting channels for employees and third parties to individual geography could threaten our ability to continue to operate report concerns in confidence.
Compliance risks included as part of due diligence reviews, integration plans and reporting for acquisitions.
Controls in place to detect and prevent fraud.
Actions during 2015 Active engagement in due diligence and integration projects for acquisition of Blue Belt technologies, and the distributorships in Russia and Colombia.
Established spotlight on trust programme to recognise employees.
Implemented detailed additional compliance standards to distributors and agents.
com 49 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS PRINCIPAL RISKS Our Viability Statement In reaching this conclusion, we have Therefore where appropriate, stress and During the year, the Board has carried undertaken the following process: sensitivity analysis of these risks was out a robust assessment of the principal carried out to evaluate the impact of a The Audit Committee reviewed the risks affecting the Company, particularly severe but plausible combination of risks risk management process at their those which could threaten the business actually occurring and consider whether meetings in February and July, receiving additional financing would be required.
These risks and the actions presentations from the Chief Compliance This assessment included quantitative being taken to manage or mitigate them and Risk Officer, which explained the and qualitative analyses.
processes followed by management in are explained in detail on pages 44 to 48 We have considered and discussed a identifying and managing risk throughout of this Annual Report.
report from the Chief Financial Officer the business.
setting out the terms of our current As part of the annual Strategy Review in Having assessed the principal risks, the Board financing arrangements and potential September, the Board considered and has determined that we have a reasonable capacity for additional financing.
discussed the principal risks which could expectation that the Company will be able to impact the business model over the continue in operation and meet its liabilities Based on this analysis, the Directors have a next three years and discussed with the as they fall due over a period of three years reasonable expectation that the Company will management team how each of these from 1 January 2016.
We have chosen a period be able to continue in operation and meet its risks were being managed and mitigated.
of three years, as the detailed Strategic Plan, liabilities as they fall due over the three-year which we approve each year at our Strategy We have undertaken a robust assessment period of their assessment.
Review in September, is also for a three-year of those risks that would threaten our Our conclusion is based on our current period.
We also review longer-term plans for business model, future performance, Strategic Plan approved by the Board in five and ten years, but our detailed review solvency or liquidity of the Company, September 2015, having regard to longer-term focuses on a three-year period.
including its resilience to the threats to its strategic intentions, yet to be formulated in viability posed by those risks in severe detail.
However, we operate in a changing but plausible scenarios.
We are satisfied marketplace, which might cause us to adapt that we have robust mitigating actions in our Strategic Plans during the three-year place as detailed on pages 44 to 48 of this period.
In responding to changing external Annual Report.
conditions, we will continue to evaluate any We recognise however that the long-term additional risks involved which might impact viability of the Company could also be the business model.
impacted by other as yet unforeseen risks or that the mitigating actions we have put By order of the Board, 24 February 2016 in place could turn out to be less effective than intended.
Susan Swabey Company Secretary SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 50 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS Governed by a Board with a wealth of skills Roberto Quarta 66 Olivier Bohuon 57 Julie Brown 53 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Joined the Board in December 2013 and Joined the Board and was appointed Chief Joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer in appointed Chairman following election by Executive Officer in April 2011.
He resigned as February 2013. shareholders at the April 2014 Annual General a Member of the Nomination & Governance Career and Experience Meeting.
He was also appointed Chairman Committee on 4 February 2016. of the Nomination & Governance Committee Julie is a graduate, Chartered Accountant and Career and Experience and a Member of the Remuneration Fellow of the Institute of Taxation.
She qualified Committee on that day.
Olivier has had a highly successful career with KPMG before working with AstraZeneca in the pharmaceutical industry.
He holds a plc, where she served as Vice President Career and Experience doctorate from the University of Paris and Group Finance, and ultimately, as Interim Chief Roberto is a graduate and a former Trustee an MBA from HEC, Paris.
His career has Financial Officer.
Prior to that she undertook of the College of the Holy Cross, Worcester been truly global.
He started his career in Commercial and Strategic roles and was MA, US.
He started his career as a manager Morocco with Roussel Uclaf S. A. and then, Regional Vice President Latin America, trainee at David Gessner Ltd, before moving with the same company, held a number of Marketing Company President AstraZeneca on to Worcester Controls Corporation and positions in the Middle East with increasing Portugal, and Vice President Corporate then BTR plc, where he was a divisional levels of responsibility.
He joined Abbott Strategy and R&D Chief Financial Officer.
Between 1985 and 1989 he in Chicago as head of their anti-infective both Julies country and regional roles, trading was Executive Vice President of Hitchiner franchise with Abbott International, before margins increased significantly, improving the Manufacturing Co. Inc. where he helped becoming Pharmaceutical General Manager efficiency and profitability of the business.
Her the company to expand internationally.
He subsequently spent 10 years experience encompasses many areas of the returned to BTR plc in 1989 as Divisional Chief with GlaxoSmithKline, rising to Senior healthcare value chain including Commercial, Executive, where he led the expansion in Vice President & Director for European Operations, R&D and Business Development.
North America and was appointed to the Commercial Operations.
He then re-joined She has led multi-billion dollar cost saving main board.
From here he moved to BBA Abbott as President for Europe, became and restructuring programmes in Operations, Aviation plc, as CEO from 1993 to 2001 and President of Abbott International all countries R&D and the Commercial organisations and then as Chairman, until 2007.
He has held outside of the US, and then President of led major refinancing programmes, including several board positions, including Nontheir Pharmaceutical Division, which was the issuance of $2 billion US bonds.
Julie Executive Director of Powergen plc, Equant a $20 billion business, encompassing has fulfilled two Non-Executive Directorships N. V. BAE Systems plc and Foster Wheeler AG.
manufacturing, R&D and commercial with the NHS in the UK and the British His previous Chairmanships include Italtel operations.
He joined Smith & Nephew from Embassy.
She is nominated for election as SpA, Rexel S. A. and IMI plc.
He is currently Pierre Fabre, where he was Chief Executive.
a new member of the Board of Directors of Chairman of WPP plc.
He is a partner at Roche Holding Ltd and Chair of the Audit Skills and Competencies Clayton Dubilier & Rice and a member of the Committee at the Annual General Meeting on Investment Committee of Fondo Strategico Olivier has extensive international healthcare 1 March 2016.
leadership experience within a number of Skills and Competencies significant pharmaceutical and healthcare Skills and Competencies companies.
His global experience provides Julie has deep financial expertise and Robertos career in private equity brings the skillset required to innovate a FTSE 100 understanding of the healthcare sector, valuable experience to Smith & Nephew, company with a deep heritage and provide which has enabled her to lead a major particularly when evaluating acquisitions inspiring leadership.
He is a Non-Executive transformation project at Smith & Nephew and new business opportunities.
He has an Director of Virbac group and Shire plc.
designed to simplify and improve the in-depth understanding of differing global organisation and deliver margin accretion.
She Nationality governance requirements having served is a recognised leader with a proven ability as a director and Chairman of a number of French to build teams.
Her commercial experience UK and international companies.
Since his in Latin America is of particular benefit as we appointment as Chairman in April 2014, he continue to grow in Emerging Markets.
She has conducted a comprehensive review has held a number of senior commercial roles into the composition of the Board and its as well as financial positions, making her a Committees, and conducted the search for versatile Chief Financial Officer.
new Non-Executive Directors resulting in Nationality the appointment of Vinita Bali in 2014, Erik Engstrom and Robin Freestone during 2015.
British Nationality American Italian SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 51 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS Vinita Bali 60 Ian Barlow 64 The Rt.
Hon Baroness Virginia Bottomley Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director of Nettlestone DL 67 Appointed Independent Non-Executive Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director in December 2014 and Member of Director in March 2010, Chairman of the Independent Non-Executive Director the Remuneration Committee and Ethics & Audit Committee in May 2010 and Member Appointed Independent Non-Executive Compliance Committee on 1 April 2015. of the Ethics & Compliance Committee in Director in April 2012 and Member of the October 2014.
Career and Experience Remuneration Committee and Nomination & Career and Experience Governance Committee in April 2014.
Vinita holds an MBA from the Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies, University Ian is a Chartered Accountant with Career and Experience of Bombay and a Bachelors Degree in considerable financial experience both Virginia gained her MSc in Social Economics from the University of Delhi.
internationally and in the UK.
He was a Partner Administration from the London School of She commenced her career in India with at KPMG, latterly Senior Partner, London, until Economics following her first degree.
She was the Tata Group, and then joined Cadbury 2008.
At KPMG, he was Head of UK tax and appointed a Life Peer in 2005 following her India, subsequently working with Cadbury legal operations, and acted as Lead Partner career as a Member of Parliament between Schweppes plc in the UK, Nigeria and South for many large international organisations 1984 and 2005.
She served successively as Africa.
From 1994, she held a number of senior operating extensively in North America, Secretary of State for Health and then Culture, global positions in marketing and general Europe and Asia.
Ians previous appointments Media and Sport.
Virginia was formerly a management at The Coca-Cola Company include Non-Executive Director and Chairman director of Bupa and Akzo Nobel NV.
She is based in the US and South America, of the Audit Committee of PA Consulting currently a director of International Resources becoming President of the Andean Division in Group and Non-Executive Director of Candy Group Limited, member of the International 1999 and Vice-President, Corporate Strategy & Candy.
He was Chairman of WSP Group Advisory Council of Chugai Pharmaceutical in 2001.
In 2003, she joined the consultancy, plc, Think London, the inward investment Co. Chancellor of University of Hull and Zyman Group, LLC as Managing Principal, agency and The Racecourse AssociationLtd.
Sheriff of Hull and Trustee of The Economist again based in the US.
Vinita was Managing He is currently Lead Non-Executive Director Newspaper.
She is the Chair of Board & CEO Director and Chief Executive Officer of chairing the Board of Her Majestys Revenue Practice at Odgers Berndtson.
Britannia Industries Limited, a leading Indian & Customs, Non-Executive Director of publicly listed food company, from 2005 to The Brunner Investment Trust PLC, NonSkills and Competencies March 2014.
Currently, Vinita is Non-Executive Executive Director of Foxtons Group plc Virginias extensive experience within Director of Syngenta AG, Titan Company Ltd and a Board Member of the China-Britain government, particularly as Secretary of and CRISIL Credit Rating Information Services Business Council.
State for Health brings a unique insight of India Ltd. She is also Chair of the board of Skills and Competencies into the healthcare system both in the UK GAIN Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition and globally, whilst her experience on the and a member of the Advisory Board of Ians longstanding financial and auditing Board of Bupa brings an understanding PwC India.
career and extensive board experience add of the private healthcare sector and an value to his role as Chairman of the Audit Skills and Competencies insight into the needs of our customers.
This has been particularly useful experience running the Board practice at a Vinita has an impressive track record during 2015 as KPMG have undertaken search firm gives her a valuable skillset as a of achievement with blue-chip global their first year as our new external auditor.
member of the Nomination & Governance corporations in multiple geographies including His appointment as a member of the Ethics Committee and Remuneration Committee.
India, Africa, South America, the US and & Compliance Committee has proved Her long association with Hull, the home of UK, all key markets for Smith & Nephew.
useful in coordinating the oversight role of many of our UK employees also brings an Additionally, her strong appreciation of both committees.
His work for a number of added perspective.
customer service and marketing brings deep international companies gives added insight insight to Smith & Nephew as we continue to when reviewing our global businesses.
Nationality develop innovative ways to serve our markets Nationality British and grow our business.
British Nationality Indian SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 52 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS Erik Engstrom 52 Robin Freestone 57 Michael Friedman 72 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed Non-Executive Director Appointed Independent Non-Executive Appointed Independent Non-Executive on 1 January 2015 and Member of the Director and Member of the Audit Committee Director in April 2013 and Chairman of Audit Committee.
and the Remuneration Committee on the Ethics & Compliance Committee in 1 September 2015.
Career and Experience Career and Experience Career and Experience Erik is a graduate of the Stockholm School of Economics BSc and of the Royal Institute Robin graduated with a BA in Economics Michael graduated with a Bachelor of Arts of Technology in Stockholm MSc.
In 1986, from The University of Manchester and later degree, magna cum laude from Tulane he was awarded a Fulbright scholarship qualified and commenced his career as a University and a Doctorate in Medicine from to Harvard Business School, from where Chartered Accountant at Deloitte Touche the University of Texas Southwestern Medical he graduated with an MBA in 1988.
He held a number of senior financial Center.
He completed postdoctoral training at commenced his career at McKinsey & positions throughout his career at ICI PLC Stanford University and the National Cancer Company and then worked in publishing, between 1984 and 1995, then Henkel Ltd from Institute, and is board certified in Internal latterly as President and Chief Operating 1995 to 2000 and Amersham plc from 2000 Medicine and Medical Oncology.
In 1983, he Officer of Random House Inc. and as to 2004.
Robin was the Deputy Chief Financial joined the Division of Cancer Treatment at President and Chief Executive Officer of Officer and then later the Chief Financial the National Cancer Institute and went on to Bantam Doubleday Dell, North America.
In Officer of Pearson PLC between 2006 and become the Associate Director of the Cancer 2001, he moved on to be a partner at General August 2015, where he was heavily involved Therapy Evaluation Program.
Michael was Atlantic Partners, a private equity investment with the transformation and diversification most recently Chief Executive Officer of City firm focusing on information technology, of Pearson.
His other Non-Executive of Hope, the prestigious cancer research and internet and telecommunications businesses.
com treatment institution in California.
He also Between 2004 and 2009 he was Chief Group PLC and Cable and Wireless served as Director of the institutions cancer Executive of Elsevier, the division specialising Communications plc, where he is also Senior centre and held the Irell & Manella Cancer in scientific and medical information and then Independent Director and Chairman of the Center Directors Distinguished Chair.
He was from 2009 Chief Executive of RELX Group.
Robin sits on the Board formerly Senior Vice President of research, of ICAEW as an Advisory Group Member, medical and public policy for Pharmacia Skills and Competencies Financial Reporting Faculty and is a member Corporation and also Deputy Commissioner Erik has successfully reshaped RELX of the CBI Economic Growth Board.
He was and Acting Commissioner at the US Food Groups business in terms of portfolio and previously Non-Executive Director at eChem and Drug Administration.
He brings a deep understanding Ltd from 2000 to 2014 and Deputy Chairman on a number of Boards in a non-executive of how technology can be used to transform a of the 100 Group until 2015, having been Chair capacity, including Rite Aid Corporation.
business and insight into the development of from 2012 to 2014.
Currently, Michael is a Non-Executive Director new commercial models that deliver attractive of Celgene Corporation, Non-Executive Skills and Competencies economics.
His experience as a CEO of a Director of MannKind Corporation and global company gives him valuable insights as Robin has been a well-regarded FTSE 100 Intuitive Surgical, Inc. a member of our Audit Committee.
Chief Financial Officer who has not only Skills and Competencies been heavily involved with transformation Nationality and diversification, but also the healthcare Michael understands the fundamental Swedish industry at Amersham, where his acquisition importance of research, which is part of experience will be of value to Smith & Smith & Nephews value creation process.
Nephew as it continues to grow globally His varied career in both the public and and in different markets.
He brings financial private healthcare sector has given him a expertise and insight to the Audit Committee deep insight and a highly respected career.
and an understanding of how to attract In particular his work with the FDA and and retain talent in a global business to the knowledge relating to US compliance provides Remuneration Committee.
the skillset required to Chair the Ethics & Compliance Committee.
Nationality Nationality British American SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 53 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS Brian Larcombe 62 Joseph Papa 60 Susan Swabey 54 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Appointed Independent Non-Executive Appointed Independent Non-Executive Appointed Company Secretary in May 2009.
Director in March 2002, Senior Independent Director in August 2008 and Chairman of Skills and Experience Director in April 2014, Member of the Audit the Remuneration Committee in April 2011, Committee, Nomination & Governance Member of the Audit Committee and Ethics & Susan has 30 years experience as a Committee and Remuneration Committee.
company secretary in a wide range of companies including Prudential plc, Career and Experience Career and Experience Amersham plc and RMC Group plc.
Her Brian graduated with a Bachelors of Joe graduated with a Bachelor of Science work has covered Board support, corporate Commerce degree from University of degree in Pharmacy from the University governance, corporate transactions, risk, Birmingham.
He spent most of his career in of Connecticut and Master of Business share registration, listing obligations, private equity with 3i Group plc.
After leading Administration from Northwestern Universitys corporate social responsibility, pensions, the UK investment business for a number Kellogg Graduate School of Management.
insurance and employee and executive share of years, he became Finance Director and In 2012, he received an Honorary Doctor plans.
Susan is joint Vice-Chair of the GC100 then Chief Executive of the Group following of Science degree from the University of Group, a member of the CBI Companies its flotation.
He has held a number of NonConnecticut School of Pharmacy.
He began Committee and is a frequent speaker on Executive Directorships.
He is currently Nonhis commercial career at Novartis International corporate governance and related matters.
Executive Director of Kodak Alaris Holdings AG as an Assistant Product Manager and She is also a Trustee of ShareGift, the share Limited and Cape plc.
eventually rose to Vice President, Marketing, donation charity.
having held senior positions in both Skills and Competencies Nationality Switzerland and the US.
He moved on to hold Brians experience in private equity is senior positions at Searle Pharmaceuticals British particularly useful to Smith & Nephew and was later President & Chief Operating when evaluating acquisitions and new Officer of DuPont Pharmaceuticals and later business opportunities.
His long service Watson Pharma, Inc.
Between 2004 and as a Non-Executive Director has provided 2006, he was Chairman and Chief Executive continuity throughout a period of change Officer of Cardinal Health Inc. Joe is currently and his corporate memory and wise counsel Chairman and Chief Executive of Perrigo continues to support our Chairman.
As Senior Company plc, one of the largest over-theIndependent Director and member of the counter pharmaceutical companies in the US.
Nomination & Governance Committee, he Skills and Competencies plays an active role in succession planning and assisted with the search for new NonWith over 30 years experience in the global Executive Directors in 2014 and 2015. pharmaceutical industry, Joe brings deep insight into the wider global healthcare Nationality industry and the regulatory environment.
As British Chairman and Chief Executive of a significant US Company, Joe has a comprehensive understanding both of how to attract and retain global talent and use remuneration arrangements that incentivise performance, leading to maximum returns for investors.
Nationality American SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 54 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR LEADERSHIP TEAM Supported by a strong leadership team Julie Brown 53 Rodrigo Bianchi 56 Jack Campo 61 Chief Financial Officer President, Asia Pacific and Chief Legal Officer Emerging Markets Joined Smith & Nephew in February Joined Smith & Nephew in June 2008 and 2013 as Chief Financial Officer.
Julie is a heads up the Global Legal function.
Initially Joined Smith & Nephew in July 2013 with graduate, Fellow of the Institute of Chartered based in London, he has been based in responsibility for Greater China, India, Russia, Accountancy and Fellow of the Institute of Andover, Massachusetts since late 2011.
Asia, Middle East and Africa, focusing on Taxation.
continuing our strong momentum in these Skills and Experience regions.
With effect from Skills and Experience Prior to joining Smith & Nephew, Jack held 1 January 2016, Rodrigo became responsible, Julies experience in the healthcare sector a number of senior legal roles within the not only for the IRAMEA markets, but Latin includes 25 years with AstraZeneca plc in General Electric Company, including seven America, Australia, New Zealand and Japan progressively senior roles and four years with years at GE Healthcare GE Medical Systems as well.
Most recently, she served as Interim in the US and Asia.
He began his career with Skills and Experience Chief Financial Officer of AstraZeneca.
She Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP.
has international experience and a deep Rodrigos experience in the healthcare Nationality understanding of the healthcare sector industry includes 26 years with Johnson & gained through her previously held Vice American Johnson in progressively senior roles.
Most President Finance positions in all areas of the recently, he was Regional Vice President for healthcare value chain including Commercial, the Medical Devices and Diagnostics division Operations, R&D and Business Development.
in the Mediterranean region and prior to that Julie has also led commercial organisations, President of Mitek and Ethicon.
He started his being Country President and Regional Vice career at Procter & Gamble Italy.
Nationality Nationality Italian British SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 55 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR LEADERSHIP TEAM Michael Frazzette 54 Elga Lohler 48 Diogo Moreira-Rato 55 Chief Commercial Officer Chief Human Resources Officer President, Europe and Canada Joined Smith & Nephew in July 2006 as Joined Smith & Nephew in 2002 and became Joined Smith & Nephew in May 2014 with President of the Endoscopy Global Business Chief Human Resources Officer in December responsibility for leading all of our commercial Unit.
In July 2011, he was appointed President 2015.
Elga leads the Global Human Resources, business in Europe and Canada.
He is based of the Advanced Surgical Devices Division, Internal Communication and Sustainability in Baar, Switzerland.
with responsibility for the Orthopaedic Functions.
Skills and Experience Reconstructive, Trauma and Endoscopy Skills and Experience businesses in the Established Markets.
Diogos experience in the healthcare industry Since 2014, he has had responsibility for our Prior to being appointed as Chief Human includes 31 years with Johnson & Johnson commercial business in Latin America.
With Resources Officer, Elga held progressively in progressively senior roles.
Most recently, effect from 1 January 2016, Mike became the senior positions in Human Resources at Diogo was President, DePuy Synthes, EMEA, Chief Commercial Officer with responsibility Smith & Nephew in Wound Management, where he led the merger and integration for oversight of all commercial activities sales, Operations, and Corporate Functions and of DePuy and Synthes in EMEA.
Prior roles marketing, market access, and commercial Group.
Elga has more than 25 years Human included International Vice President for the strategy across the Company for our full line Resources experience.
Medical Devices and Diagnostics business, of business.
He is currently based in Andover, President DePuy Orthopaedics and Managing Nationality Massachusetts.
American South African Skills and Experience Nationality Mike has held a number of senior positions Portuguese within the US medical devices industry.
He was President and Chief Executive Officer of MicroGroup, a private US manufacturer of medical devices: and spent 15 years at Tyco Healthcare becoming President of each of the Patient Care and Health Systems divisions.
com 56 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OUR LEADERSHIP TEAM Cyrille Petit 45 Matthew Stober 48 Glenn Warner 53 Chief Corporate Development Officer and President, Global Operations President, US President, Global Business Services Joined Smith & Nephew on 1 October 2015 Joined Smith & Nephew in June 2014 with responsibility for global manufacturing, with responsibility for Advanced Wound Joined Smith & Nephew in May 2012 and supply chain, distribution, quality assurance, Managements global franchise strategy, leads the Corporate Development function regulatory affairs, direct procurement, and marketing and product development, as well and from October 2015 the Global Business manufacturing IT optimisation.
He is based as its US commercial business.
from 1 January 2016, Glenn became the Skills and Experience President of Smith & Nephews US business Skills and Experience responsible for all the US commercial Cyrille spent the previous 15 years of his Matt has more than 25 years experience business.
career with General Electric Company, in healthcare manufacturing operations for where he held progressively senior positions Skills and Experience global companies including Merck & Co. Inc. beginning with GE Capital, GE Healthcare and GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Most recently, he Glenn has a broad-based background in and ultimately as the General Manager, served as Senior Vice President, Corporate pharmaceuticals and medical products Global Business Development of the Officer and Member of the Executive including extensive international experience, Transportation Division.
Cyrilles career began Committee at Hospira Pharmaceuticals.
having served most recently as AbbVie Vice in investment banking at BNP Paribas and As a senior pharmaceutical operations President and Corporate Officer, Strategic then Goldman Sachs.
executive with extensive technical and cross Initiatives, where he was responsible for the Nationality functional experience in start-up and complex development and execution of pipeline and challenging environments, Matt has led global asset management strategies.
Prior to that he French and multi-company development projects, was President and Officer, Japan Commercial new product launches, critical quality-related Operations in Abbotts international turnarounds, network rationalisations and pharmaceutical business and Executive Vice organisational transformations.
He also has President, TAP Pharmaceutical Products, extensive experience working directly with Inc. Additional senior level roles included external regulatory bodies, such as the US international positions in Germany and Food and Drug Administration.
Singapore for Abbotts Diagnostics business.
Nationality Nationality American American SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 57 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OVERVIEW Committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
We maintain these standards through a clear definition of our roles, continuing development and evaluation and accountability through the work of the Board Committees.
LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS ACCOUNTABILITY The Board sets the tone at the top of The Board carries out its The Board delegates some the Company through: duties through: of its detailed work to the Board Committees: A clear definition of the roles of the Regular meetings focusing on the oversight Each Committee meets regularly and individual members of the Board of strategy, risk, including viability and reports back to the Board on its activities succession planning A comprehensive corporate The terms of reference of each Committee governance framework An annual review into the effectiveness of may be found on the Company website at the Board www.
com Defined processes to ensure the independence of Directors and the A comprehensive programme of A report from the Chairman of management of conflicts of interest development activities throughout the year each Committee is included in this Annual Report R EAD MORE ABOUT OUR BOARDS R EAD MORE ABOUT OUR BOARDS R EAD MORE ABOUT OUR BOARDS LEADERSHIP ON PAGE 60 EFFECTIVENESS ON PAGE 62 ACCOUNTABILITY ON PAGE 68 REMUNERATION Having a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on remuneration for Executive Directors is crucial.
Our remuneration policy aims to attract, retain and motivate by linking reward to performance.
In this section you will find information on the remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2014 and how we implemented it in 2015 and plan to implement it in 2016.
R EAD MORE ABOUT OUR BOARDS REMUNERATION ON PAGE 78 The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and we comply with all the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code.
The Companys American Depositary Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and we are therefore subject to the rules of the NYSE as well as to the US securities laws and the rules of the Securities Exchange Commission SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
We comply with the requirements of the NYSE and SEC.
We shall explain in this Corporate Governance Statement and in the reports on the Audit Committee, the Nomination & Governance Committee, the Ethics & Compliance Committee and the Remuneration Committee, how we have applied the provisions and principles of the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Listing Rules, Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTRs and the Code throughout the year.
The Directors Report comprises pages 36 to 39, 49 to 77, 104, 113, 115, 117 and pages 171 to 194 of the Annual Report.
com 58 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OVERVIEW Leadership We believe the boards composition gives us the necessary diversity, Experience skills and experience to ensure we continue to run the business effectively and deliver sustainable growth.
NON-EXECUTIVE TENURE A E D Diversity B BOARD NATIONALITY C 45% 19% 9% 9% 9% 9% A LESS THAN ONE YEAR 1 B ONE TO THREE YEARS 3 C THREE TO SIX YEARS 2 D SIX TO NINE YEARS 1 BRITISH AMERICAN FRENCH INDIAN ITALIAN SWEDISH E OVER NINE YEARS 1 AMERICAN EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE GENDER SPLIT C A B A B A EXECUTIVE 2 A MALE 8 B NON-EXECUTIVE 8 B FEMALE 3 C CHAIRMAN 1 Changes to the Board INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Joined the Board during 2015 Erik Engstrom appointed 1 January 2015 Robin Freestone appointed 1 September 2015 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 59 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS OVERVIEW Role of Directors Whilst we all share collective responsibility for the activities of The roles of the Non-Executive Directors, Senior Independent the Board, some of our roles have been defined in greater detail.
Director and the Company Secretary are defined as follows: In particular, the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are clearly defined.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Providing effective challenge to management.
CHAIRMAN Assisting in development and approval of strategy.
Serving on the Board Committees.
Chairing Board meetings and setting Board agendas.
Ensuring effectiveness of Board and enabling the annual review of effectiveness.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Encouraging constructive challenge and facilitating effective communication between Board members.
Chairing meetings in the absence of the Chairman.
Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman Ensuring appropriate induction and development programmes.
Ensuring effective two-way communication and debate Acting as an intermediary for the other Directors with shareholders.
Promoting high standards of corporate governance.
Available to shareholders on matters which cannot otherwise Maintaining appropriate balance between stakeholders.
Leading the annual evaluation into the Boards effectiveness.
Leading the search for a new Chairman, if necessary.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Developing and implementing Group strategy.
COMPANY SECRETARY Recommending the annual budget and five-year strategic and financial plan.
Advising the Board on matters of corporate governance.
Ensuring coherent leadership of the Group.
Supporting the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Managing the Groups risk profile and establishing effective Point of contact for investors on matters of corporate governance.
Ensuring good governance practices at Board level and Regularly reviewing organisational structure, developing throughout the Group.
executive team and planning for succession.
Ensuring the Chairman and Board are kept advised and updated regarding key matters.
Maintaining relationships with shareholders and advising the Board accordingly.
Setting the tone at the top with regard to compliance and sustainability matters.
Day-to-day running of the business.
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Supporting the Chief Executive Officer in developing and implementing the Group strategy.
Leading the global finance function, developing key finance talent and planning for succession.
Ensuring effective financial reporting, processes and controls are in place.
Recommending the annual budget and five-year strategic and financial plan.
com 60 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS COMPOSITION & ROLES Leadership continued During 2015, the Executive Officers formed the Commercial and Corporate Governance Framework Operations Committee which advised the Chief Executive Officer The Board is responsible to shareholders for approving the strategy of in decisions relating to the commercial and operational aspects of the Group, for overseeing the performance of the Group and evaluating the business.
and monitoring the management of risk.
The Chief Executive Officer in turn delegates the day-to-day Each member of the Board has access collectively and individually management of the Group functions and regional commercial to the Company Secretary and is also entitled to obtain independent operations divisions to the Executive Officers, who are assisted in their professional advice at the Companys expense, should they decide it is decision making by their own leadership teams and other committees necessary in order to fulfil their responsibilities as Directors.
The day-to-day running of the business is delegated to Olivier Bohuon, In 2016, the Governance structure below Board level is being revised to the Chief Executive Officer, and his executive team comprising the reflect the new organisational structure.
Executive Officers who are shown on pages 54 to 56.
BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION & ETHICS & AD HOC COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE COMMITTEES COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Provides independent Determines remuneration Ad hoc committees may assessment of the policy and packages for Reviews size and Reviews and monitors be established to review financial affairs of the Executive Directors and composition of the ethics and compliance and approve specific Company, reviews financial Executive Officers.
Board, succession matters across the matters or projects.
statements and controls, planning, diversity and Group.
Reviews and and the risk management governance matters.
use of internal and external auditors.
Read more Read more Read more Read more See page 72 See page 78 See page 68 See page 70 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Supporting the Business Investment in the Strategic Priorities Various committees and groups relating to the running of the business report Investment in our Strategic Priorities, important for our future success, is to the Chief Executive Officer.
These groups have a dual role both advising governed through a number of committees and groups.
These groups report the Chief Executive Officer and also implementing the strategy throughout the either to the Chief Executive Officer or to one of the Executive Officers and are business.
A number of these committees also report regularly to the Board or focused on allocating resources to and overseeing investment in the strategic one of its Committees.
Regular reports from these groups are submitted to the Board or one of its Committees.
Commercial & Operations Committee Committee of the Executive Officers, Research & Development Council Reviews and evaluates R&D projects, advising the Chief Executive Officer on commercial and operational matters determining the allocation of resources, ensuring alignment with corporate strategy, reports regularly to the Board Regional Leadership Teams Implement work of regional presidents Mergers & Acquisitions Council Oversees corporate development strategy, Functional Leadership Teams Implement work of functional presidents monitors status of transactions and approves various stages of acquisition prior Disclosure Committee Approves all announcements except routine to presentation to Board regulatory matters released to investors and to UKLA, London and New York Capital Governance Board Sets group level targets for capital expenditure Stock Exchanges, SEC and SOx compliance priorities and monitors capital expenditure within the parameters set by Finance & Banking Committee Approves banking and treasury matters, the Board corporate structure changes, acquisition details IT Governance Board Oversees the IT strategy and investment allocation Group Risk Committee Reviews risk registers and mitigation plans, reports to throughout the Group, monitors IT systems and cyber security, reports regularly Board and Audit Committee to the Audit Committee Health, Safety and Environment Leadership Team Oversees health, safety Group Optimisation Steering Group Oversees the implementation of the and environment matters across Group, reports to Board on sustainability Group Optimisation project, reports regularly to the Board Diversity & Inclusion Council Implements strategies to promote diversity and inclusion across the Group Group Benefits Committee Oversees policies and processes relating to pension and employee benefit plans Group Ethics & Compliance including Quality Committee Monitors developments in compliance and quality matters, approves enhanced compliance programme, reports to Board Ethics & Compliance Committee SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 61 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS COMPOSITION & ROLES General Meeting on 1 March 2016.
Each Director discussed their external Independence of Directors roles with the Chairman, prior to accepting these appointments and the We require our Non-Executive Directors to remain independent from Chairman was satisfied that each Executive Director had the capacity for management so that they are able to exercise independent oversight the time commitment required.
We therefore continually assess the independence of each of our Non-Executive Directors.
The Executive Re-appointment of Directors Directors have determined that all our Non-Executive Directors are In accordance with the Code, all Directors offer themselves to independent in accordance with both UK and US requirements.
None shareholders for re-election annually, except those who are retiring of our Non-Executive Directors or their immediate families has ever had immediately after the Annual General Meeting.
Robin Freestone who was a material relationship with the Group.
None of them receives additional appointed to the Board on 1 September 2015, will offer himself for election remuneration apart from Directors fees, nor do they participate in the at the Annual General Meeting.
Each Director may be removed at any Groups share plans or pension schemes.
None of them serve as time by the Board or the shareholders.
directors of any companies or affiliates in which any other Director is a director.
Director Indemnity Arrangements More importantly, each of our Non-Executive Directors is prepared to question and challenge management, to request more information and Each Director is covered by appropriate directors and officers liability to ask the difficult question.
They insist on robust responses both within insurance and there are also Deeds of Indemnity in place between the the Boardroom and sometimes, between meetings.
The Chief Executive Company and each Director.
These Deeds of Indemnity mean that the Officer is open to challenge from the Non-Executive Directors and uses Company indemnifies Directors in respect of any proceedings brought this positively to provide more detail and to reflect further on issues.
by third parties against them personally in their capacity as Directors of the Company.
The Company would also fund ongoing costs in Brian Larcombe served as an independent Non-Executive Director for defending a legal action as they are incurred rather than after judgement a period of 13 years, a period of time that some might regard as likely has been given.
In the event of an unsuccessful defence in an action to impact his independence.
We do not believe this to have been the against them, individual directors would be liable to repay the Company case as throughout 2015, Brian Larcombe continued to maintain an for any damages and to repay defence costs to the extent funded by independent view within Board discussions and his experience on the the Company.
Board, wise counsel and corporate memory was valued by the rest of the Board.
We have asked Brian Larcombe to remain on the Board for Liaison with shareholders another year to support the Chairman during the time he will be providing additional Executive oversight whilst the Chief Executive Officer is The Board meets with retail investors at the Annual General Meeting undergoing medical treatment.
and responds to many letters and emails from shareholders throughout the year.
Management of Conflicts of Interest The Executive Directors also meet regularly with institutional investors None of our Directors or their connected persons, has any family to discuss the Companys business and financial performance both at relationship with any other Director or Officer, nor has a material interest the time of the announcement of results and at industry investor events.
in any contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries are, or During 2015, the Executive Directors held meetings with institutional were, a party during the year or up to 23 February 2016. investors, including investors representing approximately 43.5% of the share capital as at December 2015.
Each of us as a Director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in which we have or may have a direct or indirect interest During 2015, Roberto Quarta met with investors to hear their views of the that conflicts or might conflict with the interests of the Company.
He held four meetings with investors holding approximately is in addition to the existing duty owed to the Company to disclose to the 7.2% of the share capital.
Board any interest in a transaction or arrangement under consideration Joseph Papa, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also met by the Company.
with key institutional investors towards the end of 2015.
He held meetings If any Director becomes aware of any situation which might give rise with 14 investors holding around 18.4% of the share capital.
These were to a conflict of interest, they inform the rest of the Board immediately useful discussions giving insight into current investor thinking.
and the Board is then permitted under the Companys Articles of Ian Barlow, the Chairman of the Audit Committee also offered to meet Association to authorise such conflict.
This information is then recorded with institutional investors to discuss audit related matters.
The meetings in the Companys Register of Conflicts, together with the date on which held with six investors holding around 5.6% of the issued share capital authorisation was given.
In addition, each Director certifies on an annual were interesting and useful and we welcomed some insightful comments basis that the information contained in the Register is correct.
on possible improvements to the Audit Committee Report.
When the Board decides whether or not to authorise a conflict, only the Michael Friedman, the Chairman of the Ethics & Compliance Directors who have no interest in the matter are permitted to participate Committee met with one investor during the year who was interested in in the discussion and a conflict is only authorised if the Board believes understanding more about our global compliance programme and the that it would not have an impact on the Boards ability to promote the challenges we face in this area.
success of the Company in the long term.
Additionally, the Board may Members of the Board are always happy to engage with investors, if they determine that certain limits or conditions must be imposed when giving have matters they wish to raise with the Non-Executive team.
No actual conflicts have been identified, which have A short report on our major shareholders and any significant changes required approval by the Board.
However, four situations have been in their holdings since the previous meeting is reviewed at each Board identified which could potentially give rise to a conflict of interest and meeting.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors report back to the these have been duly authorised by the Board and are reviewed on an Board following their meetings with investors.
Olivier Bohuon and Julie annual basis.
Brown routinely report on any concerns or issues that shareholders have raised with them in their meetings.
Copies of analyst reports on the Outside Directorships Company and its peers are also circulated to Directors.
We encourage our Executive Directors to serve as a Non-Executive Director of one external company.
We believe that the work they do Purchase of ordinary shares as Non-Executive Directors of other companies has benefits for their In order to avoid shareholder dilution, shares allotted to employees executive roles with the Company, giving them a fresh insight into the role through employee share schemes are bought back on a quarterly basis of a Non-Executive Director.
Olivier Bohuon is a Non-Executive Director and subsequently cancelled as we stated in Note 19.2 of the accounts on of Shire plc and of Virbac group and Julie Brown is nominated for election page 155. as a Non-Executive Director of Roche Holding Limited at its Annual SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 62 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS RESPONSIBILITY & ACTIVITY Effectiveness Responsibility of the Board The work of the Board falls into the following key areas: STRATEGY RISK Overseeing the Groups risk management programme.
Approving the Group strategy including major changes to corporate and management structure.
Regularly reviewing the risk register.
Approving acquisitions, mergers, disposals, capital transactions Overseeing risk management processes see pages 42 to 48 for in excess of $50 million.
Setting priorities for capital investment across the Group.
Approving annual budget, financial plan, five-year business plan.
Approving major borrowings and finance and SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS banking arrangements.
Approving preliminary announcement of annual results, the Approving changes to the size and structure of the Board publication of the Annual Report, the half-yearly report, the and the appointment and removal of Directors and the quarterly financial announcements, the release of price sensitive Company Secretary.
announcements and any listing particulars, circulars Approving Group policies relating to corporate social or prospectuses.
responsibility, health and safety, Code of Conduct and Code of Approving the Sustainability Report prior to publication.
Share Dealing and other matters.
Maintaining relationships and continued engagement Approving the appointment and removal of key with shareholders.
PROVIDING ADVICE PERFORMANCE Using experience gained within other companies and Reviewing performance against strategy, budgets and financial organisations to advise management both within and between and business plans.
Overseeing Group operations and maintaining a sound system of internal control.
Determining the dividend policy and dividend recommendations.
The Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board describes the role and responsibilities of the Board more fully and can be found on our website Approving the appointment and removal of the external Auditor at www.
com on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Approving significant changes to accounting policies or practices.
Overseeing succession planning at Board and Executive Officer level.
Approving the use of the Companys shares in relation to employee and executive share incentive plans on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee.
com 63 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS RESPONSIBILITY & ACTIVITY Board timetable 2015 JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER What we did EARLY FEBRUARY JULY Approval of Preliminary Announcement Approval of H1 results Reviewed the results for the full year 2014 and the preliminary Reviewed the results for the first half 2015 and approved the H1 announcement and approved the final dividend to be announcement, having considered managements judgement in recommended to shareholders for approval.
a number of areas and approved payment of the interim dividend.
Reviewed and approved the annual risk management report.
Received and considered a report analysing the progress of recent acquisitions against expectations at the time Reviewed the Group Optimisation Plan and tracked its progress.
Approved the Budget for 2015 and the five-year Plan for 2015 Received and discussed the annual review of Group Insurances.
Received an update regarding the new UK site at Croxley Green Reviewed the results of the review into the effectiveness of the Business Park in Watford, North London.
Board in 2014 and agreed action points for 2015.
Received a report from Group Operations on Manufacturing.
Reviewed and approved the acquisitions of Eurociencia, the Colombian distributor and DeOst, the Russian distributor.
Approved the appointment of Robin Freestone as a NonExecutive Director with effect from 1 September 2015.
LATE FEBRUARY SEPTEMBER Approval of Financial Statements by telephone Strategy Review, Geneva Reviewed and approved the Annual Report and Accounts for 2014, Approved the Strategic Plan for 2015 to 2020 over a two-day having determined that they were fair, balanced and Strategy Review with the executive team.
Approved the renewal of the Directors and Officers Reviewed and approved the Notice of Annual General Meeting Liability insurance.
OCTOBER EARLY APRIL Approval of Q3 Trading Statement, Durban, South Africa Prepared for the Strategic Review in September.
Reviewed the results for the third quarter 2015 and approved the Reviewed progress of past transactions and acquisitions Q3 trading statement announcement.
Received and considered the annual report from the executive Approved the Sustainability Report.
team on executive Succession Planning.
Prepared for the Annual General Meeting to be held later that day.
Received an update on the business in China.
Received an update on our strategy in Emerging Markets.
LATE APRIL Received a report on investor perceptions.
Approval of Q1 Trading Statement by telephone Reviewed the results for the first quarter 2015 and approved the DECEMBER Q1 trading statement announcement.
Approval of Budget Approved the Budget for 2016.
Received a report on the Capital Structure.
Conducted Deep Dive into Cyber Security Risk.
Received reports on Europe region with particular focus on Iberia.
com 64 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS RESPONSIBILITY & ACTIVITY Effectiveness continued We also agreed to approve the 2015 final budget and dispose of certain Each meeting was preceded by a meeting between the Chairman trademarks to Smith & Nephew Overseas Ltd, a subsidiary entity of and the Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors and Smith & Nephew plc by written resolution.
Unless otherwise stated, meetings are held in London.
Since the year end, we have also approved the Annual Report and Accounts for 2015 and have concluded that, taken as a whole, they At each meeting, we approved the minutes of the previous meetings, are fair, balanced and understandable.
We have approved the Notice reviewed matters arising and received reports and updates from the of Annual General Meeting, recommended the final dividend to Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Business shareholders and have received and discussed the report on the Development Officer, the Chief Legal Officer and the Company Secretary.
effectiveness of the Board in 2015.
We also received reports from the chairmen of the Board Committees on the activities of these Committees since the previous meeting.
Board and Committee Attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination & Governance Ethics & Compliance Board Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Director 8 meetings 7 meetings 5 meetings 2 meetings 4 meetings 1 Roberto Quarta 7 8 5 5 2 2 Olivier Bohuon 8 8 2 2 Julie Brown 8 8 2 Vinita Bali 7 8 3 3 3 3 Ian Barlow 8 8 7 7 4 4 3 Virginia Bottomley 7 8 5 5 2 2 4 Erik Engstrom 7 8 6 7 5 Robin Freestone 3 3 2 2 2 2 Michael Friedman 8 8 4 4 Brian Larcombe 8 8 7 7 5 5 2 2 6 Joseph Papa 6 8 6 7 5 5 3 4 1 Roberto Quarta was unable to attend one Board call due to a prior appointment.
2 Vinita joined the Ethics & Compliance and the Remuneration Committees from 1 April 2015.
She was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a meeting arranged prior tobeing appointed.
3 Virginia Bottomley was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a prior appointment.
4 Erik Engstrom was appointed to the Board and Audit Committee on 1 January 2015.
He was unable to attend one Board and one Audit Committee meeting due to a meeting arranged prior to being appointed.
5 Robin Freestone was appointed to the Board and Audit and Remuneration Committees on 1 September 2015.
6 Joseph Papa was unable to attend the April Board and October Board, Audit and Ethics & Compliance Committee meetings due to his company holding emergency meetings.
com 65 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS RESPONSIBILITY & ACTIVITY Board Effectiveness Review The Board Effectiveness Review in 2015 was externally facilitated Suggested Improvements by Belinda Hudson of Independent Audit, who had undertaken the She did however recommend some key ways in which the Board previous external review in 2012.
Independent Audit has no other could become more effective.
The Board has discussed these business relationship with the Company or any member of the Board.
recommendations and have agreed the following actions for 2016: Following an initial planning meeting with the Chairman and Company Further opportunities to be identified to enable greater Secretary, she reviewed the minutes and papers of the Board and engagement with the Non-Executive Directors for them to provide Committee meetings over the previous year.
She then interviewed each input on matters brought before the Board.
member of the Board, the Company Secretary, the External Auditor and a number of other Senior Executives, who regularly interacted with the The development of a programme for Non-Executive Directors to Board and its Committees.
She also attended and observed the Board get to know the business better outside the scheduled Board visits.
Continuous review of the Board agenda to ensure sufficient time is devoted to HR and people related matters, risk and mitigations and In January 2016, she prepared a report, detailing her findings.
report was shared with the Chairman and the rest of the Board.
The Chairman then discussed the findings with each member of the Board and collectively at a meeting with the Non-Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
She concluded that the Board appears to have a much better understanding of all the issues and challenges that Smith & Nephew faces than in the past.
It has remained supportive throughout while providing a good degree of challenge to the thinking of the executives and commented that the Board was on a good trajectory and becoming increasingly effective.
She highlighted the benefits of the refreshing of the Board that had taken place over the previous 18 months, noting that this had led to a new level of energy and dynamism as well as fresh thinking and input, a better balanced Board, a better focus on strategy and a stronger focus on exercising oversight of risk, better relationships and better informed discussion on succession planning.
The areas for attention identified in the 2014 review have been addressed as follows: ACTIONS IDENTIFIED ACTION TAKEN Make more effective use of the annual Board Planner to ensure that all The annual Board planner and the format of the Board agendas were key strategic issues were timetabled appropriately throughout the year.
This has resulted in a more logical flow of matters being discussed at each Board meeting with more time spent on matters of greater strategic importance and less on routine matters.
Encourage the executive team to access the diverse competencies of Opportunities have been taken by the executives to access the the Non-Executive Directors more between Board meetings.
specialist skills of some of the Non-Executive Directors during the year, particularly in the areas of risk management, cyber security and in-country knowledge of certain territories.
However, the Board and the executive team recognised that this is an area which could be developed further in 2016.
Continue the practice of inviting members of the executive team to At each Board meeting during the year, there was a presentation by present regularly to the Board.
members of the executive team on relevant topics.
This has enabled the Non-Executive Directors to meet and get to know key members of the executive team, which is helping with succession planning.
com 66 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS RESPONSIBILITY & ACTIVITY Effectiveness continued Board Development Programme Development activities Our Board Development Programme is directed to the specific needs The following development sessions covering both the Smith & Nephew and interests of our Directors.
We focus the development sessions on business and wider market issues were held during the year: facilitating a greater awareness and understanding of our business rather than formal training in what it is to be a Director.
We value our APRIL visits to the different Smith & Nephew sites around the world, where Presentation from WPP on innovation trends in the Global we meet with the local managers of our businesses and see the daily Healthcare market.
Meeting our local managers helps us to understand the challenges they face and their plans to meet those challenges.
We also take these opportunities to look at our products and in particular the JULY new products being developed by our R&D teams.
This direct contact with the business in the locations in which we operate around the world Presentation from our Auditor, KPMG on MegaTrends which were helps us to make investment and strategic decisions.
Meeting our local likely to impact business in coming years.
managers also helps us when making succession planning decisions below Board level.
During the course of the year, we receive updates at the Board and SEPTEMBER Committee meetings on external corporate governance changes likely to Presentation from Boston Consulting Group on trends impact the Company in the future.
In 2015, we particularly focused on the new reporting requirement to Presentations from the entire executive team as part of the Boards include a Viability Statement and the consequent changes we would Strategy review.
make to the way we monitored risks throughout the Group.
Board discussion on Risk as part of the Boards New Directors receive tailored induction programmes when they join Strategy discussions.
In 2015, Vinita Bali continued her induction programme with a series of meetings with key Senior Executives, a visit to our site in Hull and attendance at some orthopaedic operations in India.
Erik Engstrom OCTOBER and Robin Freestone also commenced their induction programmes during the year, meeting with key Senior Executives.
All Non-Executive Visit to the Companys site in Durban, South Africa and meetings Directors are encouraged to visit our overseas businesses, if they with the South African executive team.
happen to be travelling for other purposes.
Our local management Series of presentations from our South African management team teams enjoy welcoming Non-Executive Directors to their business on the challenges faced by the business in South Africa, our and it emphasises the interest the Board takes in all our operations.
strategy and initiatives to meet these challenges and an update on The Chairman regularly reviews the development needs of individual progress made since the previous year.
Directors and the Board as a whole.
DECEMBER Internally facilitated workshop on Risk Management programme focusing on Groups principal risks, the Boards risk appetite and tolerance for each risk, mitigation actions and resultant net risks post mitigation.
com 67 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS RESPONSIBILITY & ACTIVITY Succession Planning The Board is responsible for ensuring that there are effective succession plans in place to ensure the orderly appointment of directors to the Board, as and when vacancies arise.
The report from the Nomination & Governance Committee on pages 68 to 69 explains the process the Board and the Nomination & Governance Committee followed in 2015 to build a balanced board for the future in undertaking the search for new Non-Executive Directors.
Building a successful executive team is the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer, although this process is also overseen by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Human Resources Officer present a report to the Board on Succession Planning on an annual basis, at which the performance and potential of members of the executive team are discussed and considered.
The Board is also given a number of opportunities during the course of the year to meet key members of the executive team at the Strategy Review held annually in September and at the site visits held in October each year.
Executive Officers and their direct reports also make regular presentations on different aspects of the business.
The Board recognises the importance of getting to know the executive team below Board level both for the purpose of understanding the business better but also in order to plan for executive succession.
By order of the Board, on 24 February 2016 Roberto Quarta Chairman SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 68 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS NOMINATION & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT Accountability Dear Shareholder, NOMINATION & GOVERNANCE I am pleased to present the 2015 report of the Nomination COMMITTEE &Governance Committee.
Role of the Nomination & Governance Committee Our work falls into the following two areas: Board Composition Reviewing the size and composition of the Board.
Recommending the appointment of Directors.
Corporate Governance Overseeing governance aspects of the Board and its Committees.
Overseeing the review into the effectiveness of the Board.
CURRENT MEMBERS IN 2015 Considering and updating the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Roberto Quarta Board and the Terms of Reference of the Board Committees.
Committee Chairman Monitoring external corporate governance activities and keeping the Board updated.
Brian Larcombe Overseeing the Board Development Programme and the induction Senior Independent Non-Executive Director process for new Directors.
Virginia Bottomley Independent Non-Executive Director The terms of reference of the Nomination & Governance Committee 1 describe our role and responsibilities more fully and can be found on Olivier Bohuon our website.
Chief Executive Officer F IND IT ON OUR WEBSITE 1 Olivier Bohuon has ceased to be a member of this committee with effect from WWW.
KEY ACTIVITIES Activities of the Nomination & Governance Committee Reviewed the composition of the Board and made recommendations in 2015 and since the year end to the Board regarding the appointment of Directors.
In 2015, we held two physical meetings.
Each meeting was attended by Oversaw governance aspects of the Board and its Committees.
all members of the Committee.
The Company Secretary also attended by invitation.
In between each meeting, various discussions were held Recommended the appointment of Robin Freestone to the Board, between members of the Nomination & Governance Committee and the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Our programme of work in 2015 was as follows: Recommended the appointment of Independent Audit to conduct external Board evaluation.
EARLY FEBRUARY Activities related to the year end 2016 FOCUS C onsidered and approved the re-appointment of Directors who had completed three or six years service and the annual Recommend to the Board ways of addressing any issues raised in the appointment of Directors serving in excess of nine years.
Re viewed the composition of each committee and approved the appointment of Vinita Bali to the Remuneration and Ethics & Compliance Committees.
Re viewed and noted the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board and the Terms of Reference of the Board Committees.
C onsidered and discussed the results of the annual review into the effectiveness of the Board.
A pproved the appointment of The Zygos Partnership recruitment consultant.
com 69 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS NOMINATION & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT Diversity JULY We aim to have a Board which represents a wide range of backgrounds, Appointment of Robin Freestone skills and experiences.
We also value a diversity of outlook, approach Re viewed the short list of candidates for the position of and style in our Board members.
We believe that a balanced Board is Non-Executive Director and discussed the outcome of meetings better equipped to consider matters from a broader perspective and already held with potential candidates.
therefore come to decisions that have considered a wider range of issues and perspectives than would be the case in a more homogenous A greed to recommend to the Board that Robin Freestone Board.
Diversity is not simply a matter of gender, ethnicity or other easily be appointed Non-Executive Director with effect from measurable characteristic.
Diversity of outlook and approach is harder 1 September 2015. to measure than gender or ethnicity but is equally important.
A Board C ommenced the appointment for the external Board Evaluation needs a range of skills from technical adherence to governance or process.
regulatory matters to understand the business in which we operate.
It needs some members with a long corporate memory and others who Since the year end, we have also discussed the future structure of the bring new insights from other fields.
There needs to be both support Board.
In particular, we recommended to the Board that Brian Larcombe and challenge on the Board as well as a balance of gender, commercial remains in place as Senior Independent Director in order to support and international experience.
When selecting new members for the me as Chairman, should I be required to provide additional executive Board, we take these considerations into account, as well as professional oversight during the Chief Executive Officers period of illness.
A new Board member needs to fit in with their fellow Board members, but also needs to provide a new way of looking at things.
We also agreed that Olivier Bohuon would cease to be a member of this committee, recognising that some shareholders believe that the In 2012, we stated that our expectation would be that by 2015, 25% of Chief Executive Officer should not sit on the Nomination & Governance our Board would be female and we have met this expectation.
He will continue to attend and contribute to discussions of our Board is female.
We do not regard this as a fixed percentage as at our meetings, as we value his input particularly when discussing the number of Board members will fluctuate from time to time and we succession planning.
would not necessarily expect to replace any retiring Director with a new Director of the same gender.
We will still continue to appoint Directors on merit, valuing the unique contribution that they will bring to the Board, Non-Executive Directors regardless of gender.
During 2015, Erik Engstrom and Robin Freestone joined the Board on 1 January 2015 and 1 September respectively.
In selecting these new Governance Board members, we continued the process we started in 2014, which had identified the skills and experiences we needed on the Board to During the year, the Nomination & Governance Committee also implement our Strategy over the next five years.
The process we followed addressed a number of governance matters.
We also received updates in 2015 was as follows: from the Company Secretary on new developments in corporate governance and reporting in both the UK and Europe.
We reviewed The analysis in 2014 had identified that we needed one more Board the independence of our Non-Executive Directors, considered member with financial expertise gained as Chief Financial Officer of potential conflicts of interest and the diversity of the Board and made a FTSE 100 company.
recommendations concerning these matters to the Board.
The Nomination & Governance Committee selected Zygos to undertake the search for a new Non-Executive Director with financial expertise.
Zygos prepared a long list of candidates satisfying one or more of the above criteria and Brian Larcombe and I met with them to discuss the long list and select a short list of suitable candidates.
Roberto Quarta Members of the Nomination & Governance Committee and Ian Chairman of the Nomination & Governance Committee Barlow, Chairman of the Audit Committee then met individually with a number of candidates.
The Nomination & Governance Committee agreed to recommend that the Board appoint Robin Freestone as Non-Executive Director because of his experience as Chief Financial Officer of Pearson plc and previous experience of the Healthcare industry at Amersham plc.
Zygos does not perform any other services for the Company and we are satisfied that the advice is objective and independent.
com 70 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS ETHICS & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT Accountability continued Dear Shareholder, ETHICS & COMPLIANCE I am pleased to present the 2015 report of the Ethics COMMITTEE &Compliance Committee.
Role of the Ethics & Compliance Committee Our work falls into the following two general areas: Ethics & Compliance Overseeing ethics and compliance programmes.
Monitoring ethics and compliance policies and training programmes.
Reviewing compliance performance based on monitoring, auditing and internal and external investigations data.
Reviewing allegations of significant compliance issues.
Overseeing the Groups internal and external communications relating to ethics and compliance matters.
Reviewing external developments and compliance activities.
CURRENT MEMBERS IN 2015 Receiving reports from the Groups Ethics & Compliance Committee meetings and from the Chief Compliance Officer and the Chief Michael A. Friedman Legal Officer.
Committee Chairman Ian Barlow Quality Assurance and Regulatory Assurance QARA Independent Non-Executive Director Overseeing the processes by which regulatory and quality Joseph Papa risks relating to the Company and its operations are identified Independent Non-Executive Director and managed.
Receiving and considering regular functional reports and Vinita Bali from 1 April 2015 presentations from the President of Global Operations, SVP of Independent Non-Executive Director Quality Assurance and other Officers.
The terms of reference of the Ethics & Compliance Committee describe KEY ACTIVITIES our role and responsibilities more fully and can be found on our website.
Reviewed ethics and compliance processes and practices across F IND IT ON OUR WEBSITE the Group.
COM Oversaw quality and regulatory matters.
Monitored significant compliance, quality and regulatory issues Activities of the Ethics & Compliance Committee in orfailures as they arise.
2015 and since the year end In 2015, we held four physical meetings.
Each meeting was attended 2016 FOCUS by all members of the Committee.
The Company Secretary, the Chief Legal Officer, the Chief Compliance Officer and the QARA Officers Enhance oversight of quality and regulatory matters, including review also attended by invitation.
Our programme of work in 2015 included of data for trends and patterns and proactively working to minimise the following: associated risks.
FEBRUARY Continue to focus on compliance issues within the context of our growth in Emerging Markets organically and through acquisitions.
N oted that the final self-monitoring report had been filed with the SEC and DOJ together with a certification of compliance.
Continue to enhance the compliance processes and practices of our third party distributors.
Re ceived an update regarding the newly-structured Quality Assurance and Regulatory Assurance function.
This function now provided a quarterly update to the Committee.
N oted the Culture of Quality survey had been undertaken across all employees to measure employee ownership, peer involvement, message credibility and leadership emphasis.
N oted the implementation of detailed Additional Compliance Standards for distributors and sales agents.
com 71 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS ETHICS & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT employees.
In 2015, we also introduced, developed and piloted a APRIL facetoface course for new managers, supplementing the on-line S uccessful completion of performance under the three-year FCPA manager certification training.
settlement agreements and closure of matter.
N oted expansion of monitoring programme whereby regional Compliance Programme for Third Parties compliance officers conducted periodic compliance checks.
We continually review our compliance programme as it relates to third N oted the US Food and Drug Administration FDA inspections party sellers such as distributors and sales agents, particularly in higher undertaken in St Petersburg, Curaao, Aarau, Tuttlingen and risk markets.
This programme includes due diligence, contracts with Andover.
compliance terms and compliance training.
To increase oversight, we have augmented compliance standards and monitoring programmes in 2015.
JULY Our oversight of third party sellers included site assessments to check N oted management review of updated compliance risk register.
compliance controls and monitoring visits to review books and records.
M onitoring of compliance in China and other developing markets We also have controls over other third parties engaged by us to and key actions undertaken.
provide services other than selling our products, such as customs, N oted the data published under the US Sunshine Act regarding registration and travel agents.
We have established a policy and process the Company and its competitors.
requiring that managers prioritise our oversight of third parties and take appropriate steps, including performing a risk assessment, conducting due diligence and assigning training, based on third party type and OCTOBER risk profile.
N oted the results of annual manager training.
M onitored the compliance integration plan for the Russian acquisition.
Compliance implications around acquisitions Re ceived a report from the SVP Quality Assurance and Regulatory In support of strategic acquisition activity across the Group, we Assurance on the activities of the QARA function, reviewing the undertake comprehensive due diligence evaluation prior to acquisition quality and regulatory challenges faced across the Company and and implement compliance integration plans from the point of executing initiatives to address them.
This is to ensure that new businesses are integrated into the Smith & Nephew compliance culture as soon and consistently as At each meeting we noted and considered the activities of compliance possible and that all new employees are immediately made aware of and enforcement agencies and investigation of possible improprieties.
how we do things at Smith & Nephew.
We also reviewed a report on the activities of the Group Ethics & Compliance Committee and reviewed the progress of the Global Oversight of Quality Assurance and Regulatory Compliance Programme.
Assurance Function Since the year end, we have also reviewed the work of the Group Ethics & Compliance Committee meeting held in November 2015, considered In 2014, the Committee assumed responsibility for oversight of the the compliance implications of recent acquisitions and continued our Quality Assurance and Regulatory Affairs Function QARA.
Product oversight of the Quality Assurance and Regulatory Assurance function.
safety is at the heart of our business and regulatory authorities across the world enforce a complex series of laws and regulations that govern the design, development, approval, manufacture, labelling, marketing and Employee Compliance Programme sale of healthcare products.
The QARA function carries out work in the New employees are trained on our Code of Conduct, which sets area of Quality Management systems in our manufacturing activities.
out the basic legal and ethical principles for conducting business.
The Committee approved the QARA Three Year Plan and the QARA Audit A copy of the Code of Conduct can be found on our website at Plans for 2015 and 2016.
During the year, we reviewed the results of the www.
com QARA audits undertaken during the year, approved follow up actions Further support is provided through a comprehensive set of tools and and monitored progress made to address these actions.
resources located on our global intranet platform.
These tools and We also reviewed the results of inspections carried out by the US Food resources are regularly updated.
and Drug Administration FDA and other regulators and monitored The Code of Conduct includes our whistle-blower policy, which enables the progress of improvement work required following some of these employees and members of the public to contact us anonymously inspections using a dashboard, which highlighted progress being made through an independent provider where allowed by local law.
We also monitored the work being undertaken to help Individuals can also report any concern to their direct manager or a manufacturing sites prepare for future inspections.
manager in Compliance, Legal or Human Resources.
All calls and We also reviewed the results of a Culture of Quality survey undertaken contacts are investigated and the appropriate action taken, including across all employees measuring the culture of quality against four key reports for senior management or the Board, where warranted.
As drivers employee ownership, peer involvement, message credibility stated in the Code of Conduct, we also enforce our non-retaliation policy and leadership emphasis.
with respect to anyone who makes a report in good faith.
The Ethics & Compliance Committee is advised of potentially significant improprieties from time to time, and the Companys response.
In 2015, we continued to work to enhance the employee compliance Michael A. Friedman training programme.
New employees receive training on our Code Chairman of the Ethics & Compliance Committee of Conduct Code, and we assign annual compliance training to SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 72 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Accountability continued Dear Shareholder, Its been a year of positive change for the Audit Committee during We undertook a number of non-routine items during the year, which 2015.
We have welcomed Erik Engstrom and Robin Freestone to the have provided debate and progression for the Company, including: Committee.
They both have strong FTSE 100 backgrounds Robin Discussion of the risk framework as part of the 2015 Strategy Review.
Freestone was previously a Chief Financial Officer and they provide a This led to further work, which enabled the completion of the first fresh perspective to the Committee.
This process was also reviewed by the Following the audit tender during 2014 and the appointment of KPMG Audit Committee.
LLP in April 2015, the Committee oversaw a smooth transition from A deeper review of SOx work, in particular in our Emerging Markets, the former auditor.
This process included KPMG LLP shadowing EY and following the implementation of COSO 2013, which was first LLP through the 31 December 2014 year end audit process, along applicable in 2014. with attendance at Group Audit Committee meetings before their The Minimum Acceptable Practices MAPs were launched in formal appointment.
December 2014 and are our minimum control procedures and best This was supplemented by KPMG LLP performing detailed audit practices.
They have become a standardised process across the planning activities at all the Groups material operating locations Group and additional support has been provided to the team to throughout the summer and a review of EY LLP audit files at ensure completion of these by year end.
Monitoring of the Finance Transformation project throughout 2015 to ensure its risks were mitigated and timeline remained on track.
This is the first time in Smith & Nephews history as a listed company that we have changed our audit firm.
Bringing in a new firm to conduct Following the appointment of a new Head of Internal Audit in our audit has brought fresh energy to the role: risk areas have been 2014, the scope and depth of the reviews across the business reassessed and new questions asked.
This has not been without increased during 2015.
This has led to increased oversight by challenge, and has required the Group to invest significantly more the Audit Committee on issues such as the consequences on resources and time, especially in this first year.
However, we are the China business and its governance framework of the slow pleased with the way in which the change has been managed and the down of the Chinese economy, and internal controls in newly output of a robust audit.
Reviewed the development of the process for monitoring the results At our half-year meeting we received a detailed audit plan for the 2015 and performance of acquisitions.
financial year from KPMG LLP identifying their audit scope, planning materiality and their assessment of key risks.
The audit plan for the We received a regulatory enquiry during the year.
Following 2015 financial year provided a different style, with further depth and explanation from Julie Brown, our Chief Financial Officer and her coverage including 78% of Groups revenue and 95% of adjusted Group team, this matter was dealt with to our satisfaction.
Ian Barlow Chairman of the Audit Committee SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 73 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Role of the Audit Committee AUDIT Our work falls into the following five areas: COMMITTEE Financial Reporting Reviewing significant financial reporting judgements and accounting CURRENT MEMBERS IN 2015 policies and compliance with accounting standards.
Ian Barlow Ensuring the integrity of the financial statements and their Committee Chairman and designated financial expert compliance with UK and US statutory requirements.
Erik Engstrom from 1 January 2015 Ensuring the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and Independent Non-Executive Director understandable and recommending their adoption by the Board.
Robin Freestone from 1 September 2015 Monitoring announcements relating to the Groups Independent Non-Executive Director and financial expert.
Brian Larcombe Internal Controls Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls and compliance with Joseph Papa the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 and the Sarbanes Oxley Independent Non-Executive Director Act, specifically sections 302 and 404.
Reviewing the operation of the Groups risk management processes and the control environment over financial risks.
KEY ACTIVITIES Undertook independent assessment of the financial affairs of Risk Management the Company.
On behalf of the Board, reviewing and ensuring oversight of the Oversaw system of control and risk management throughout processes by which risks are managed, through regular functional the Group.
reports and presentations, and report any issues arising out of such reviews to the Board.
Undertook detailed work to support the Boards approval of the Reviewing the process undertaken and deep-dive work required to financial results.
2016 FOCUS Fraud and Whistle-blowing Receiving reports on the processes in place to prevent fraud and to Monitor the roll-out of enhanced SOx controls and MAPs to ensure enable whistle-blowing.
consistently applied financial controls across the Group, particularly in Emerging Markets.
If required, receiving reports of fraud incidents.
Continue to develop the process to monitor the results and Internal Audit performance of acquisitions.
Agreeing internal audit plans and reviewing reports of internal audit work.
Monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Reviewing the control observations made by the internal auditor, the adequacy of managements response to recommendations and the status of any unremediated actions.
External Audit Overseeing the Boards relationship with the external auditor.
Monitoring and reviewing the independence and performance of the external auditor and evaluating their effectiveness.
Making recommendations to the Board for the appointment or reappointment of the external auditor.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee describe our role and responsibilities more fully and can be found on our website, where further information can be found for permitted non-audit services.
F IND IT ON OUR WEBSITE WWW.
COM SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 74 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Accountability continued Activities of the Audit Committee LATE APRIL in 2015 and since the year end Approval of Q1 Trading Statement by telephone In 2015, we held five physical meetings and two meeting by telephone.
Reviewed the Q1 2015 Trading Report and approved the Each meeting was attended by all appointed members of the Committee.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, Approved the Companys policy and report on Conflict Minerals the Head of Internal Audit, the external auditor both the incumbent and forsubmission to the NYSE.
also KPMG from the December 2014 meeting, until formal appointment at the Annual General Meeting on 9 April 2015, and key members of JULY the finance function, the Company Secretary and Deputy Company Approval of H1 results Secretary also attended by invitation.
We also met with the external auditor and the internal auditor without management present.
Our Private meeting with the internal auditor.
programme of work in 2015 was as follows: Reviewed the results for the first half 2015 and approved the H1 announcement.
EARLY FEBRUARY Reviewed the Progress Report from Internal Audit which included Approval of Preliminary Announcement anupdate on the status of the 2015 Internal Audit plan.
Reviewed the results for the full year 2014 and the preliminary Reviewed the implementation progress for Minimum Acceptable announcement and recommended them for adoption by the Board.
Practices for the Finance function and other control initiatives.
Approved the decision to submit Quarterly Trading Reports instead Received the fraud report and reviewed whistle-blowing procedures.
Considered the Companys response to the changing reporting Reviewed the effectiveness of financial controls and of the risk requirements on risk following the implementation of the UK management process and concluded they were operating effectively.
Reviewed compliance with UK Corporate Governance and US Reviewed and approved the external auditors Integrated Audit Plan Corporate Governance.
Received the Internal Audit Report and approved the Internal Audit Received governance updates on the going concern and viability progress report for 2015. statements for 2015.
Received the Quality Assurance Report and approved the Quality Private meeting with the external auditor.
Received the fraud report and reviewed whistle-blowing procedures.
OCTOBER Confirmed the independence of KPMG as external auditor before Approval of Q3 Trading Statement its formal appointment within professional and regulatory Reviewed the results for Q3 2015 and approved the standards, following a rigorous review during the tender process.
Approved EY external audit fees and the policy for approval of KPMG Reviewed the Progress Reports from the external auditor on non-audit tax fees and noted feespaid to other major audit firms.
Q32015 and from Internal Audit on their work.
Approved the process for ensuring the Board could coordinate the LATE FEBRUARY risk management programme and conclude that it was effective.
Approval of Financial Statements by telephone Reviewed the progress of recent transactions against expectations Reviewed and approved the Annual Report and Accounts for 2014, at the time of the acquisition.
having agreed that they were fair balanced and understandable, and recommended them for adoption by the Board.
DECEMBER Considered the effectiveness of the external auditor and concludedthat their work had been effective.
Review of Functional Reports Reviewed the implementation progress for Minimum Acceptable Received and discussed a report on the Finance Transformation Practices for the Finance function and other control initiatives.
project and reports from the Group Treasurer and the Chief Information Officer on IT security risk.
EARLY APRIL Received an update on SOx testing and Minimum AcceptablePractices.
Private meeting held with the external auditor.
Received a report from the Internal Audit function focusing on China.
Reviewed the control themes and observations of the external Reviewed the Internal Audit Plan for 2016. auditor and concluded there was nothing of significance.
Approved the Sustainability Report and its verification process.
Reviewed and approved the layout and design of the Annual Report 2016.
Received a corporate governance update for 2015 Reviewed the process being undertaken to support the making corporatereporting.
Reviewed the implementation progress for Minimum Acceptable Practices for the business and Finance function and other control Considered and approved critical accounting policies and initiatives.
judgements in advance of the 2015 year end.
Received an update from KPMG on the external audit and Reviewed the Progress Report from Internal Audit which included preliminary SOx findings.
anupdate on the status of the 2015 Internal Audit Plan.
com 75 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Since the year end, we have also reviewed the Annual Report and products, levels of reimbursement and success in obtaining regulatory Accounts for 2015 and have concluded that taken as a whole, they are approvals.
If actual results should differ or changes in expectations fair balanced and understandable and have advised the full Board arise, impairment charges may be required which would adversely accordingly.
In coming to this conclusion, we have considered the impact operating results.
description of the Groups strategy and key risks, the key elements of Our action the business model, which is set out on pages 10 to 11, risks and the key performance indicators and their link to the strategy.
We reviewed managements reports on the key assumptions with respect to goodwill, acquisition intangible assets and investments in associates particularly the forecast future cash flows and discount Significant matters related to the financial statements rates used to make these calculations.
We noted the impairment We considered the following key areas of judgement in relation to the charge of $51m that has been recorded in 2015 the principal 2015 accounts and at each half-year and quarterly trading report, which component of which related to the Oasis brand.
Based on our we discussed in all cases with management and the external auditor: challenge of the key assumptions we concurred with management that the amount of impairment is appropriate.
We have also considered the VALUATION OF INVENTORIES disclosure surrounding these reviews, and concluded that the review and disclosure were appropriate.
A feature of the orthopaedic business model whose finished goods inventory makes up 79% of the Group total finished goods inventory is TAXATION the high level of product inventory required, some of which is located Provisioning for potential current tax liabilities and the level of deferred at customer premises and is available for customers immediate use.
tax asset recognition in relation to accumulated tax losses are Complete sets of product, including large and small sizes have to be underpinned by a range of judgements about the future statutory made available in this way.
These sizes are used less frequently than profitability of constituent entities of the Group.
standard sizes and towards the end of the product life cycle are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments to carrying value are therefore Our action required to be made to orthopaedic inventory to anticipate this situation.
We annually review our processes and approve the principles Our action for management of tax risks.
We review quarterly reports from management evaluating existing risks and tax provisions.
Based on a At each quarter end, we received reports from, and discussed with, thorough report from management of tax liabilities and our challenge management the level of provisioning and material areas at risk.
thereof of the basis of any tax provisions recorded we concluded, that The provisioning level was 21% at 31 December 2015 21% as at the levels of provisions and disclosures were appropriate.
We challenged the basis of the provisions and concluded that the proposed levels were appropriate and have been BUSINESS COMBINATIONS consistently estimated.
The Group has identified growth through acquisitions as one of its LIABILITY PROVISIONING Strategic Priorities.
The recognition of provisions for legal disputes is subject to a significant Our action degree of estimation.
Provision is made for loss contingencies when For completed acquisitions, we received a report from management it is considered probable that an adverse outcome will occur, and the setting out the significant assets and liabilities acquired, details of amount and timing of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
In making the provisional fair value adjustments applied, an analysis of the its estimates, management takes into account the advice of internal and intangible assets acquired, the assumptions behind the valuation external legal counsel.
Provisions are reviewed regularly and amounts of these acquired intangible assets and the proposed useful updated where necessary to reflect developments in the disputes.
The economic life of each intangible asset class.
For material acquisitions, ultimate liability may differ from the amount provided depending on the management engage third party specialists to perform a detailed outcome of court proceedings or settlement negotiations or if new facts analysis, summaries of which are included in management reports.
The level of provisioning for contingent and other liabilities reviewed, discussed, challenged and approved these summaries for is an issue where management and legal judgements are important.
During 2015 we also considered and concurred Our action with management that there had been no changes to the provisional fair values recognised in the 2014 acquisition of ArthroCare.
As members of the Board, we receive regular updates from the Chief Legal Officer.
These updates form the basis for the level of provisioning.
OPERATING SEGMENTS As disclosed in Note 3 a charge of $203 million has been recorded in Following completion of the Groups transition to a new commercial respect of potential liabilities.
This arises from the Group s portfolio of organisational structure on 1 January 2015 the Group is now engaged modular metal-on-metal hip products.
This has resulted in a provision in a single business activity, being the development, manufacture and being carried forward of $185 million as of 31 December 2015.
We sales of medical technology products and services.
As the allocation of received detailed reports from management on this position, including the Groups resources are determined on a project by project basis by the actuarial model used to estimate the provision, and challenged the the Chief Operating Decision Maker being the Commercial Operations key assumptions, including the number of claimants and projected value team the Group now has one operating segment.
Aside from the developments in relation to metal-onmetal, the other legal judgements have not moved materially during the Our action year, with some cases having been resolved, and some new matters In applying the requirements of the relevant accounting standard, we arising.
We have determined that the proposed levels of provisioning at have reviewed managements analysis on determining that the Group year end of $74 million included within legal and other provisions in Note has one operating segment and agreed with the interpretation.
Given 17.1 in 2015 $74 million in 2014 were appropriate in the circumstances.
the level of judgement involved we have determined that it is appropriate IMPAIRMENT toinclude this as a significant area of judgement in our report.
In carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill, intangible assets and We note that within the External Audit report there is a principal risk property, plant and equipment, a number of significant assumptions associated with the timing of revenue recognition and measurement of have to be made when preparing cash flow projections.
These include related reserves as required by auditing standards.
We have considered the future rate of market growth, discount rates, the market demand for this and have concluded that we have appropriate procedures and the products acquired, the future profitability of acquired businesses or controls in place not to include this as a significant area of judgement.
com 76 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Accountability continued Any pre-approved aggregate, individual amounts up to $50,000 may be External Auditor authorised by the Tax Director Group Financial Controller respectively Independence of External Auditor and amounts up to $100,000 by the Chief Financial Officer.
Any individual The independence of our external auditor is critical for the integrity of the amount over $100,000 must be pre-approved by myself as Chairman audit.
Following a competitive tender in 2014, KPMG LLP were appointed the of the Audit Committee.
If we require additional permitted tax services Companys external auditor for the 2015 audit replacing Ernst & Young LLP who or any which exceed the amounts approved, again pre-approval by the had been the Companys auditor for a number of years.
We are satisfied that Chairman of the Audit Committee is required.
KPMG LLP are fully independent from the Companys management and free from conflicts of interest.
Our Auditor Independence Policy, which ensures that Internal Audit this independence is maintained, is available on the Companys website.
Our Internal Audit function reports directly to the Audit Committee and is headed by Jenny Morgan, Senior Vice President Internal Audit.
The We believe that the implementation of this policy helps ensure that Internal Audit function carries out work across the Group acting as a third auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
The policy governs line of defence.
The audit coverage is based on risk with the focus for our approach when we require our external auditor to carry out non-audit 2015 being Emerging Markets, finance transformation, inventory and core services, and all such services are strictly governed by this policy.
2015, fees paid to KPMG LLP, our external auditor, for non-audit work totalled $1 million, representing 25% of total audit fees.
Full details are During the year, they completed 33 reviews across the business.
The shown in Note 3.2 of the Notes to the Group accounts.
Audit Committee receives a quarterly report of the activities of the Internal Audit function and reviews the results of the Internal Audit reports, The Auditor Independence Policy also governs the policy regarding audit looking in detail at any reports with unsatisfactory ratings.
We also receive partner rotation with the expectation that the audit partner will rotate at a quarterly report detailing any unremediated and overdue control least every five years.
The Audit Committee confirms it has complied recommendations and oversee the effective and timely remediation of with the provision of the Competition and Markets Authority Order which any recommendations.
came into effect from 1 January 2015.
Of particular note in 2015 were the Internal Audit reviews conducted in Effectiveness of External Auditors China following the slowdown of the Chinese economy.
Each review was We conducted a review into the effectiveness of the external audit as part discussed at The Audit Committee with presentations from Internal Audit of the 2015 year end process, in line with previous years.
We sought the and Executive Regional management.
Remediation of agreed actions is views of key members of the finance management team, considered the monitored by the Audit Committee at each Committee meeting.
There feedback from this process and shared it with management.
has been continued focus on Emerging Markets with reviews of Brazil, Mexico, India, South Korea, Malaysia and Thailand.
Internal Audit also During the year, we also considered the inspection reports from the performed independent validation reviews of the implementation of the Audit Oversight Boards in the UK and US and determined that we were Groups MAPs and programme assurance reviews over the Groups SAP satisfied with the audit quality provided by KPMG.
implementation as part of the Finance Transformation.
Overall therefore, we concluded that KPMG had carried out their audit for In 2016, we will continue to monitor Internal Audits scope of work and 2015 effectively.
operational methods to ensure that it continues to play a full role in Appointment of External Auditors at Annual General Meeting providing assurance over the Groups identification and management of risk and its associated controls.
Resolutions will be put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 April 2016 proposing the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as the Risk Management Programme Companys Auditor and authorising the Board to determine their remuneration, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
During the year, we reviewed the Financial Reporting Council changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and considered how these Disclosure of Information to the Auditor changes would impact our risk management processes and the work In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors that we would need to undertake to enable the Board to make the serving at the time of approving the Directors Report confirm that, to the best Viability Statement.
of their knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of which We reviewed our risk management processes at our meetings in the Auditor, KPMG, are unaware and the Directors also confirm that they February, July and October.
These reviews included a report from have taken reasonable steps to be aware of any relevant audit information Deloitte, which recommended a number of suggestions for improving and, accordingly, to establish that the Auditor is aware of such information.
our risk management framework, which we shall be implementing over the next six to 12 months.
One of these recommendations is the Audit and Professional Fees paid to the Auditor development of Key Risk Indicators to enable us to track progress in Fees for professional services provided by Ernst & Young LLP and KPMG the future.
We also considered reviews undertaken by our Internal LLP appointed from 9 April 2015, the Groups independent auditors in Audit function into specific risks, such as IT Security and Cyber Risk each of the last two fiscal years, in each of the following categories were: and received regular reports from the Group Finance function on their findings from reviews with regard to compliance with the Sarbanes 2015 2014 $ million $ million Oxley Act.
Audit 4 3 Since the year end, we reviewed a report from the Internal Audit function Audit-related fees into the effectiveness of the risk management programme throughout the year.
We considered the principal risks, the actions taken by management Tax 2 to manage those risks and the Board risk appetite in respect of each risk.
Other 1 Total 5 5 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 77 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT We concluded that the risk management process during 2015 and up to There has been no change during the period covered by this Annual the date of approval of this Annual Report was effective.
Work will continue Report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially in 2016 and beyond to continue to enhance the process.
affect, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
We have reviewed the system of internal financial control and satisfied The Board is responsible overall for reviewing and approving the ourselves that we are meeting the required standards both for the year adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management framework and ended 31 December 2015 and up to the date of approval of this Annual the system of internal controls over financial, operational including Report.
No concerns were raised with us in 2015 regarding possible quality management and ethical compliance processes operated by the improprieties in matters of financial reporting.
The Board has delegated responsibility for this review to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee, through the Internal Audit function, See pages 42 to 48 for further information on our risk reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control procedures management process.
and identifies any weaknesses and ensures these are remediated within agreed timelines.
The latest review covered the financial year to Viability Statement 31 December 2015 and included the period up to the approval of this We also reviewed managements work in conducting a robust Annual Report.
assessment of those risks which would threaten our business model The main elements of this annual review are as follows: and the future performance or liquidity of the Company, including its resilience to the threats of viability posed by those risks in severe but The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have plausible scenarios.
This assessment included stress and sensitivity evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the analyses of these risks to enable us to evaluate the impact of a severe Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2015. but plausible combination of risks.
We then considered whether Based upon this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief additional financing would be required in such eventualities.
Based on Financial Officer concluded on 23 February 2016 that the disclosure this analysis, we recommended to the Board that it could approve and controls were effective as at 31 December 2015. make the Viability Statement on page 49.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
Management Evaluation of Internal Controls assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate financial reporting as at 31 December 2015 in accordance with internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a15 f and the requirements in the US under s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley 15d15 f under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
In making that assessment, they used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway There is an established system of internal control throughout the Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
Based on Group and our Divisions.
The main elements of the internal control their assessment, management concluded and reported that, as framework are: at 31 December 2015, the Groups internal control over financial The management of each Division is responsible for the establishment reporting is effective based on those criteria.
and review of effective financial controls within their Division.
Having received the report from management, the Audit Committee The Group Finance manual sets out, amongst other things, financial reports to the Board on the effectiveness of controls.
and accounting policies and MAPS.
An independent registered public accounting firm issued The Internal Audit function agrees an annual work plan and scope of an audit report on the Groups internal control over financial reporting work with the Audit Committee.
This report appears on pages 106 to 110.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from Internal Audit on their findings on internal financial controls, including compliance with Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers MAPS and from the Senior Vice President, Group Finance and We have adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, which the heads of the Financial Controls and Compliance, Taxation and applies to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasury functions.
Senior Vice President Group Finance and the Groups senior financial The Audit Committee reviews regular reports from the Financial officers.
There have been no waivers to any of the Codes provisions Controls and Compliance function with regard to compliance nor have there been any amendments to the Code during 2015 or up with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act including the scope and results of until 23 February 2016.
A copy of the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial managements testing and progress regarding any remediation.
Officers can be found on our website at www.
The Audit Committee reviews the Group whistle-blower procedures.
In addition, every individual in the finance function certifies to the The Audit Committee received and reviewed a report on the Chief Financial Officer that they have complied with the Finance Code progress of the Finance Transformation during 2015 and the of Conduct.
mitigation of the associated risks.
Evaluation of Effectiveness of the Audit Committee This system of internal control has been designed to manage rather The effectiveness of the Audit Committee was evaluated as part of the than eliminate material risks to the achievement of our strategic and review into the effectiveness of the Board conducted at the end of 2015. business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Because of inherent This review found that the Audit Committee was becoming increasingly limitation, our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent effective, but recognising the increased responsibilities of the Audit or detect all misstatements.
In addition, our projections of any evaluation Committee suggested that the time needed for each meeting could of effectiveness in future periods are subject to the risk that controls be increased.
may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Entities where the company does not hold a controlling interest have their own process of internal controls similar to that of the Company.
Thisprocess complies with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK corporate governance code and additionally contributes to our compliance with Ian Barlow the obligations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and other internal Chairman of the Audit Committee assurance activities.
