RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTED TO MANAGING RISK EFFECTIVELY John OHiggins Chief Executive We recognise that effective management of Risk management process Overall ownership for each risk, together with risk is essential for delivering our strategic Our approach to risk management incorporates responsibility for all associated mitigating objectives.
As such, risk management is built both bottom-up and top-down elements to the actions, is clearly assigned and communicated.
into our day-to-day activities and forms an identification, evaluation and management of The resulting risk registers are then subject integral part of how we operate.
risks and all risks are evaluated with reference to review on an ongoing basis as part of to the Groups achievement of its strategic regular operational reviews.
This regular The Group has a well-established process which objectives, as outlined on page 22. review of the status of risks and corresponding delivers visibility and accountability for risk mitigating actions ensures that risk management management across our businesses.
This process Our business units are required to undertake is embedded in day-to-day management forms part of the Groups overall internal control formal risk management reviews at least twice processes and decision-making as well framework, as described on pages 74 and 75. ayear.
This involves the use of a consistent as in the annual strategic planning cycle.
framework for the assessment of significant risks During the year we have made further with respect to impact, likelihood and the time In addition, the Executive and key functional enhancements to this process, including frame in which the risk could materialise.
Risks personnel in the Group consider those risks implementing a lines of defence approach are assessed both before and after the effect tothe Groups strategic objectives which are to the evaluation of the Groups key risks.
of controls and mitigating actions has been not addressed within the business units and taken into account.
develop appropriate approaches to managing 24 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 HOW THE GROUP MANAGES RISK Day-to-day ownership of risk management.
First line Business units Shaping policy and control framework.
Key Group functions programmes Monitoring and oversight of risk Second line managementby business units.
Evaluation of risks impacting the Executive Group asawhole.
Assurance over the effectiveness Independent assurance Third line of theinternal control and risk management framework.
Overall responsibility for: Audit and Risk Committee Determining the Groups risk appetite.
Oversight of the Groups internal control Board andrisk management framework.
During 2015 an exercise The overall effectiveness of the Groups risk was carried out to analyse these key Group risks management and mitigation processes is through a lines of defence framework.
This reviewed regularly by the Executive Directors involved mapping the principal Group risks to: and twice yearly by the Audit and Risk Committee.
a first line of defence comprising the key The key potential risks and uncertainties controls and sources of risk mitigation facing the Groups ability to deliver its strategy, implemented by our business units: together with mitigating actions, are described a second line of defence consisting of various on the following pages.
Whilst these risks are HBM uses a cloud-based risk management Group functions which, together with the broadly consistent with those reported in 2014, solution to monitor its global supply chain for Executive Directors, shapes the policy we provide an update on how these risks, and all types of risk, including natural disasters, framework within which the first line of our ability to respond and manage them, have strikes, compliance breaches, financial defence operates and provides oversight changed during 2015. indicators and political risks.
and monitoring of the same: and a third line of defence providing The software provides HBM with daily, assuranceover the effectiveness up-to-date data on risks for all suppliers, ofriskmanagement activity.
supply paths, production sites and countries.
An early warning system, combined with impact evaluations and action plans, ensuresthat events which may cause supplychain disruption do not affect theproduction process.
