Strategic Report Risk and risk management In 2015 we made changes to our risk management framework to ensure it was fully integrated across thebusiness.
Nicholas Anderson Chairman, Risk Management Committee Managing risks Risk likelihood, control and impact The diagram below shows the Committee's analysis of the Board Audit Committee principal risks affecting the Group, before mitigation.
Reports to Works with Risk Management Committee 1 Overseas risk management processes and procedures 2 and monitors mitigating actions put in place by the Group.
Works with Audit Committee to monitor effectiveness of internal controls and the audit process.
Top down review 5 6 3 7 4 External risk review Carried out at regular intervals Risk assurance Internal audit and external auditor on-going review of effectiveness by Audit Committee and Risk Management Committee Low likelihood High likelihood Group-wide risk register Maintained and reviewed by the Committee The numbers relate to the principal risks outlined on page 33 higher priority Bottom up review medium priority lower priority impact of the risk Group operating companies Viability statement As required, this year we have produced a Viability Summary of the key areas of focus for 2016: statement which takes account of our current position O n-going monitoring of risk management and and principal risks.
internal controls A more detailed overview of our risk culture, appetite and tolerance together with the role, responsibilities R isk Management Committee to act as Ethics and actions of the Risk Management Committee Overview Committee in 2015 can be found on pages 8183 of our Governance Report Roll out further anti-bribery and corruption training Our Going concern and Viability statements can be found on page 111 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 32 Annual Report 2015 High level of control No control A summary of the principal risks, their link to our strategy and an explanation of how the Group mitigates each risk is set out in the following table.
The direction of change from 2014 is illustrated by the arrow in the Change column and an explanation is provided within the table.
The ranking has moved since 2014 following a review by the Risk Management Committee.
There may be other risks and uncertainties that are unknown to the Group or which could become material in the future.
These risks may cause the Groups results to vary materially from historic and expected results.
Link to Year-onstrategic themes Principal risk and why it is relevant year change pages 2631 Key mitigation and Executive member sponsor Economic and political instability: Compliance with Group Treasury Policy 1 1 2 3 Economic and political instability Scenario planning creates risks for our locally based direct Strong internal controls 4 5 6 operations, including the impact of Resilient business model with 10% of Group sales regimechanges.
inhigher risk areas Direct link No link No change.
Indirect link EXECUTIVE SPONSOR: Nicholas Anderson Significant exchange rate Spread of manufacturing across currency areas 1 2 3 2 movements: Forward cover where appropriate and in line with the The Group reports its results and pays Group Treasury Policy 4 5 6 dividends in sterling.
Operating and Focus on reducing manufacturing costs manufacturing companies trade in EXECUTIVE SPONSOR: David Meredith Direct link No link localcurrency.
Loss of manufacturing output Business continuity planning and disaster recovery plans 3 1 2 3 at any Group factory: Stocks of components and finished products in sales Loss of manufacturing output at any companies 4 5 6 important plant risks serious disruption to Regular and comprehensive back-up of IT systems sales operations.
Use of audits inspections and business Direct link No link Indirect link  Proactive approach to people management to ensure open communications Appropriate building construction with sprinkler systems or alternatives No change.
EXECUTIVE SPONSORS: Jay Whalen, Ian Farnworth Defined benefit pension deficit: Use of independent professional advisers 1 2 3 4 Defined benefit pension schemes carry andcustodians risks in relation to investment performance, Pension scheme fide-risking strategy in place 4 5 6 security of assets, longevityand inflation.
Use of Mercer Dynamic fide-Risking Solution EXECUTIVE SPONSOR: David Meredith Direct link No link Volatility of equity and bond yields.
Indirect link Breach of legal and regulatory Regular updates on Corporate Governance and Stock 5 1 2 3 requirements: Exchange rules The Group is subject to many different Established strong ethical culture laws and regulations in various countries.
4 5 6 Review of commercial arrangements undertaken with Breaching these laws and regulations external advice Direct link No link could have serious consequences.
Indirect link Procedures in place to maintain accreditations Effective monitoring of litigation Roll-out of compliance programme completed.
EXECUTIVE SPONSOR: Andy Robson Non-compliance with health, safety Increased focus by Board and Executive Committee 6 1 2 3 and environmental legislation: Compliance with legislation and codes of best practice A major health, safety or environmental Regular audits, site checks and reporting 4 5 6 incident could cause total or partial closure On-going training of a manufacturing facility.
Employee concerns recorded and investigated Direct link No link Indirect link Accelerated EHS programme.
EXECUTIVE SPONSOR: Ian Farnworth Product specification failure: Extensive internal and field testing of new products prior 1 2 3 7 Failure to meet customers specific tolaunch technical requirements could result in On-going capital investment in latest 4 5 6 disruption and potential loss to an end  users plant or facility.
Batch referencing of products for identification and Direct link No link Indirect link isolation ofproblems Testing policy and procedures in place across manufacturingsites EXECUTIVE SPONSORS: Jay Whalen, Ian Farnworth Increased complexity of products and solutions.
Explanation of changes in risk.
Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 33 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Our 2015 performance in detail Image: Steam trap rig, Spirax Sarco training centre, Turkey Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 34 Annual Report 2015 In this section Our divisional performance at a glance 2015 36 Group Chief Executives report 38 Steam specialties: Europe, Middle East and Africa 42 Asia Pacic 44 Americas 46 Watson-Marlow 48 Financial review 50 Sustainability report 54 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 35 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
