PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The development of new Reduced profitability Regular strategic evaluations of product We conducted our annual technologies and products andcashflow.
portfolios and the markets in which we strategy reviews with each necessarily involves risk, Loss of market share.
compete, ensuring that our investment operating business.
including: Failure to recoup in new products is targetted so as to .
These reviews often result in the product being more Project management disciplines arein targetted investment in new expensive or taking longer placeacross our product development product platforms, upgrades to develop than originally programmes and audits provide to existing products and planned: assurancethat these disciplines are services and bolt-on the product failing to reach the appliedconsistently.
2015 saw commercialisation phase: and Work closely with customers to ensure several important new product the market for the product that we develop solutions tailored to their launches, new technologies being smaller than originally specific needs.
and products acquired across envisaged.
Maintain customer involvement throughout all four segments, and many the life-cycle of product development to more acquisition ideas.
product launch through, for example, betaevaluations.
New product developments are based onstandard platforms, customised throughhigh added-value applications Link to strategic priority engineering.
Change in risk level stable INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our business is focussed on Reduced profitability Policies and procedures in place requiring During the year we took steps thedesign and manufacture andcashflow.
all of our businesses to: to streamline management of  Loss of market share.
maintain a watching brief on new registered intellectual property products and applications.
Failure to recoup third-party patent applications and and improve visibility of the As a consequence, we own .
competitor activity: Groups patent portfolios andprotect patents, trademarks, ensure adequate protection for key through engaging a trade secrets, confidential intellectual property including centralised renewals provider information and copyright as registration where appropriate: and allowing instant access wellas exploiting intellectual undertake specific freedom-to-operate toportfolio data.
technical reviews prior to commencing new product development, acquisitions The risk therefore exists that or licences: and ourintellectual property may register intellectual property where beinfringed by third parties appropriate.
orthat we may inadvertently Maintain a portfolio of intellectual property infringe third-party rights.
assets such that no single patent, trade secret or trademark is sufficiently important to present a material risk to the ongoing success of the Company.
Link to strategic priority Change in risk level stable 26 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 Key Focus on innovative Increase presence in Expand business Accelerate operational Deploy capital for both customer solutions keystrategic markets globally excellence platform and bolt-on M&A RISK DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE LAWS AND REGULATIONS Reduced sales, profitability Strong culture, internal control The Group continued to take We operate in a large number of and cash flow.
anumber of actions aimed jurisdictions and, consequently, Reputational damage.
Ethics training provided to all employees.
aresubject to numerous domestic Diversion of management Formal export controls compliance These included continued and international regulations resources to address any procedures in place, including strict ethics training targetting andrestrictions.
 and transaction keyrisk topics, together Inability to attract and screening protocols.
withtraining our businesses Any failure by the Group or its retain talent.
management and sales teams representatives to comply with in carrying out third-party relevant laws and regulations duediligence reviews.
We could result in civil or criminal continue to ensure that we liabilities, leading to significant areresponsive to issues raised fines and penalties or the through the Groups ethics disqualification ofthe Group fromparticipation ingovernmenthotline.
For more details of related contracts fora period ourethics programme see oftime.
In the event ofa failure pages 48 and 49. tocomply with export control regulations, the Group could also be exposed to restrictions being placed uponitsability to trade.
Link to strategic priority Change in risk level stable POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC RISKS We operate in a range of Reduced profitability and Maintain a broad spread of markets, The Groups balanced end-user markets around the cash flow.
products and customers to limit risks geographical mix, with similar world and may be affected by associated with any given territory.
exposure to North America, political, economic or regulatory Monitor market intelligence so that Europe and Asia Rest of the developments in any of these wecanrespond quickly to changing World, enabled it to mitigate countries.
the effects of a weak North changes in thepolitical and Ensure we remain structured in a way American manufacturing economic environments in the that enables us to take prompt action economy via robust growth in countries inwhich we operate in the event of a material change in the Europe: however, these mixed have the potential to put at risk trading environment.
trading conditions resulted our ability toexecute our strategy.
Ensure we maintain a strong balance inweaker than expected sheetand financial position.
Similarly, our broad endmarket exposure has meant that weak growth in certain end markets was mitigated bygood demand in others.
Link to strategic priority Change in risk level slight increase 27 www.
com PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE ACQUISITIONS Integration of the operations and Failure to achieve the Rigorous financial, commercial and legal There continued to be a personnel of acquired businesses benefits outlined in assessment of target businesses involving healthy level of acquisition can be a complex process.
Potential risks therefore exist that Reduced profitability Strict authority levels which, subject to We participated in this the planned benefits from the andcash flow.
size, involve review by the Board for activity, making five bolt-on acquisition may not be achieved as Unforeseen liabilities.
acquisitions, and we continue a result of problems encountered Comprehensive representations and to look for additional during integration of the acquired warranties in purchase agreements.
We have been business, incorrect assumptions Extensive integration planning careful to maintain our made in the business case, andexecution.
rigorous financial, commercial changing market conditions, or Regular review against the business and legal due diligence and issues which were not identified casefor the acquired businesses.
disciplines, which has meant during the due diligence process.
that we have also excluded Further, the Company could be ourselves from a number of exposed to past acts or omissions potential deals.
Link to strategic priority Change in risk level stable COMPETITIVE ACTIVITY The nature of the markets in Loss of market share.
Ongoing monitoring of competitor We maintained high levels of which we operate means that all Reduced profitability activityand trends in the markets in investment in R&D, investing of our businesses are exposed to andcash flow.
7.5% of Group sales, with all risk from competitor activity.
Maintain market-leading positions of our operating businesses throughstrong customer relationships bringing new products and andsignificant investment in R&D.
solutions to market to sustain Diversified portfolio of products and and strengthen our strong markets limits the overall risk from any customer relationships and single competitor.
Develop operational excellence initiatives that enable our businesses to react quicklyto changes in customer and marketdemand.
Link to strategic priority Change in risk level stable 28 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 Key Focus on innovative Increase presence in Expand business Accelerate operational Deploy capital for both customer solutions keystrategic markets globally excellence platform and bolt-on M&A RISK DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE FLUCTUATIONS IN EXCHANGE RATES The weakening of Sterling We have operations which sell Unexpected variations in Forward contracts cover up to 75% of forecast exposures up to 18 months ahead.
relative to the US Dollar offset andpurchase goods in foreign the Companys results.
Natural hedging strategy, matching a significant proportion of currencies and whose results we Reduced profitability invoicing and purchasing currencies thenegative impact caused record in a variety of different andcash flow.
We are therefore Foreign currency investments hedged Sterling relative to most other exposed to any significant withborrowings in the same currency currencies from a translational changes in exchange rates wherever possible.
Overall, this still between a variety of currencies.
Regular monitoring, including sensitivity resulted in a negative impact analyses to understand the impact of in 2015 but this was less exchange rate movements on the pronounced than in 2014.
Our hedging policy continued to mitigate transactional risk during the year.
Link to strategic priority Change in risk level stable SUPPLY CHAIN DEPENDENCIES AND DISRUPTION We are exposed to the risk that Inability to fulfil customer Strategic sourcing teams source costWe continued to identify some of the components we orders resulting in lost sales effective suppliers across a range of and qualify secondary sources source, particularly for customand reputational damage.
markets whilst validating suppliers of supply where key built items or ageing products, Increased costs business processes, quality andstandards.
dependencies have been are provided by a single supplier reduceprofitability.
Alternative sources of supply actively identified.
We also worked andare therefore vulnerable Loss of market share.
sought to reduce dependency upon with our principal electronic tointerruption of supply.
manufacturing suppliers Safety stock levels established for tostrengthen our disaster Our businesses also manufacture criticalcomponents.
support and recovery components using proprietary Business continuity plans and disaster processes, including two technologies at a number prevention measures in place for all disaster recovery simulation oflocations.
exercises carried out at Business interruption insurance.
Our ability to supply products to Strong contract review process.
customers could be adversely impacted by a disaster or other disruptive event at any of thesesites.
Link to strategic priority Change in risk level slight decrease 29 www.
com PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 UPDATE INFORMATION SECURITY Further progress was made As with most organisations of a Loss of sensitive Our businesses employ a number of with our information security similar size and complexity, our information data which physical, logical and control measures programme.
businesses face both internal and could put the businesses designed to reduce the risk of a breach external information security at a serious competitive in information security arising.
disadvantage relative to External consultants undertook risks, the nature and complexity Our systems are monitored against their competitors.
an independent assessment of of which are constantly changing.
the information security project Being subject to a malicious A programme of continuous improvement by validating the critical attack causing system failure, focussing on information security risks information assets in operating data corruption or loss, or evaluates whether the Groups existing companies, benchmarking the theft of commercial or controls in this area would benefit from additional strengthening.
risks and performing a detailed sensitive information data.
Employees receive online and face-to-face controls maturity assessment.
awareness training of information security The UK governments Ten risks and controls.
Steps to Cyber Security was used as a consistent control framework for mitigating key areas of risk for internal and external benchmarking, resulting in detailed information security roadmaps being developed for all operating companies.
Link to strategic priority Change in risk level stable STRATEGY EXECUTION In April 2015, the Group announced Failure to realise the Talent management programme.
n a new risk identified an evolution of its strategy, as Groups growth plans.
Dashboard reporting against key described on pages 6 and 7.
component of the updated strategy andcash flow.
A measured approach over time is being relates to the Groups desire to targetted, rather than a radical change.
transition the business to achieving Enhanced risk management and reporting.
alarger proportion of sales through the provision of services, software and solutions to customers, rather than products alone.
The Group considers that, as with any transition of this kind, there is necessarily inherent risk associated with the successful execution and delivery ofthe updatedstrategy.
Link to strategic priority Change in risk level n a new risk identified 30 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 Key Focus on innovative Increase presence in Expand business Accelerate operational Deploy capital for both customer solutions keystrategic markets globally excellence platform and bolt-on M&A VIABILITY STATEMENT period, supplemented by monthly analysis of customer constitutes less than 2% of Group In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 risks and opportunities against the forecast sales and our top 20 customers account for UKCorporate Governance Code, the Directors presented.
Until 2015, the Groups strategic lessthan 9% of Group sales.
At the same time, have assessed the viability of the Company planning was structured around a three-year the Directors noted the Groups strong financial over a three-year period, taking intoaccount time frame.
During 2015, the Group introduced position coupled with our ability to react the Groups current position andthe growth targets for each business through to promptly in adjusting our cost base in theevent assessment of the principal risks and 2020.
A dashboard reporting process provides of a material change in the tradingenvironment.
uncertainties as set out on pages 26 to 30. visibility of progress against relevant strategic initiatives which underpin thetargetted Similarly, in making the assessment, the The Directors have determined that a growth.
As the run-off to 2020 diminishes over Directors also considered the ability of the three-year period to 31 December 2018 the next few years and the average strategic Group to raise finance and deploy capital in constitutes an appropriate period over which to planning cycle moves closer tothree years, thecontext of the principal sources of facility provide its viability statement.
The selection of theDirectors believe that this supports the for credit, the maturity of those facilities, the this period for the assessment is supported by selection of a three-year period over which Groups ability to re-finance debt as it falls due the Groups strategic planning cycle together theviability statement is made.
and the overall level of headroom available.
with other relevant considerations such as the maturity of the Groups credit facilities.
In The Directors carried out a robust assessment While the review encompassed all of the addition, the Group is exposed to a number ofthe principal risks facing the Group, principal risks identified by the Group, the ofdifferent industry cycles of varying and including those that could threaten its following were focussed on for enhanced ill-defined length and duration which may or business model, future performance, solvency analysis including stress testing: intellectual may not overlap, and this has also been taken or liquidity.
This assessment was made with property: laws and regulations: fluctuations into account in considering the relevant period.
reference to the Groups current position and inexchange rates: supply chain dependencies prospects, the Groups strategy and the and disruption: and information security.
Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe Groups principal risks, including how these are that the Group will not be viable over a longer managed, as detailed on pages 24 to 30.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm period, it is recognised that such future that they have a reasonable expectation that the assessments carry a level of inherent uncertainty In considering the Groups prospects, the Group will continue in operation and meet its which increases with the length of the period.
As such, we believe a three-year period presents Directors also noted the broad spread of liabilities as they fall due over the period to users of the Annual Report with a reasonable markets, products and customers maintained December 2018. degree ofconfidence while still providing a by the Group.
provides mitigation against the risk of a serious economic downturn in a particular market or The Group operates a detailed financial the risks associated with dependence on a forecasting process over a rolling 18-month specific sector or customer.
