Y M F I A T N N A E G D E I RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUPS BUSINESS The Groups system of internal control and risk management and its effectiveness is INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT monitored and reviewed by the Board, the Audit Committee and management, and the The Board has a responsibility to govern the Group in the interest of the shareholders.
Board believes that the Group has maintained throughout the year and up to the date of Comments and suggestions of shareholders are always considered by the Board.
approval of the Annual Report and accounts an effective embedded system of internal Where the Board considers that a risk has not been fully mitigated, follow-up meetings control and has complied with the FRCs Risk Guidance.
will be arranged to assess the risk and formulate mitigation strategies.
A specialist management team of Directors and senior managers highlight risks as and when they The systems of internal control and risk management are designed to manage, rather than become apparent.
The team then in turn assists the Board in devising controls to eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives.
RISK POLICIES AND PROCEDURES THE GROUPS APPROACH TO RISK Business plans and budgets for each business include financial and strategic targets against The identification and management of risk is a continuous process, and the Groups system which performance is monitored.
Monitoring includes the examination of and changes of internal controls and the business continuity programmes are key elements of that.
The to rolling annual and quarterly forecasts, monthly measurement of actual achievement Group maintains a system of controls to manage the business and to protect its assets against key performance targets and plans, and weekly reviews of performance.
with the development of contingency plans and rapid response to changing circumstances and does much to mitigate the risks facing the Group.
The Group continues to invest in The Group has clear procedures for the approval and control of expenditure.
Strategic people, systems and in IT to manage the Groups operations and its finances effectively investment decisions involving both capital and revenue expenditure are subject to formal and efficiently.
detailed appraisal and review according to approval levels set by the Board.
Operating expenditure is controlled within each business with approval levels for such expenditure being determined by the individual businesses.
There is an approved whistle-blowing policy within the Group.
The policy was established to be utilised by staff who wish to raise any issues or concerns relating to the Groups activities, and all matters are discussed on a confidential basis.
KEY RISKS CONTROL ENVIRONMENT The Groups operating procedures include a comprehensive system for reporting information to the Board including: 17 assessment of three years of strategy plans for business development: creation and assessment of legal policies: and review of the Group at each Board meeting, focusing on potential new risks such as key changes in the market and succession planning.
RISKS ARE IDENTIFIED CONTROL PROCEDURES Detailed operational procedures have been developed for each of the Groups operating 2.
RISKS ARE EVALUATED businesses that embody key controls.
The implications of changes in law and regulations 3.
ACTION IS TAKEN TO MANAGE THE RISKS are taken into account within these procedures.
PRACTICES ARE REVIEWED AND MONITORED TO LIMIT THE RISK FINANCIAL REPORTING PROCESS The specialist management teams are responsible for the identification, analysis, The Group has in place internal control and risk management systems in relation to evaluation and mitigation of the significant risks applicable to their areas of business.
the Groups financial reporting process and the Groups process for the preparation of consolidated accounts.
These include clearly defined lines of accountability and delegation The teams meet regularly to discuss the identified risks, and how these should be reviewed and monitored.
The Board ensures that the appropriate arrangements are in place under of authority, policies and procedures that cover financial planning and reporting, preparing which staff can raise concerns about possible financial or other impropriety, which are then consolidated accounts, capital expenditure, project governance and information security.
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing and monitoring these processes, which The Board is assisted by the Audit Committee in fulfilling its overview responsibilities, are designed to ensure that the Group complies with relevant regulatory reporting and reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders and filing provisions.
As at the end of the period covered by this Report, the Audit Committee, the audit process, satisfying itself that appropriate systems of internal control and risk with the participation of the Chief Executive, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information management are in place and are serving to identify and manage risk.
required to be disclosed in financial reports is recorded, processed, summarised and The Group operates a Retail Support Unit which provides strong operational internal audit reported within specified time periods.
services in the Retail division, and there are procedures in place in the Brands division to monitor and control licensees.
The Audit Committee has also appointed BDO as internal audit advisers see Audit Committee report on page 40.
The external auditors are invited to attend all meetings of the Audit Committee, save for those parts of any meeting when the Committee reviews the performance of the auditors.
R E V O A T I L N U A O T M E EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUPS BUSINESS CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS AFFECTING THE GROUP The Group has identified the following factors in the following table as potential risks to, and uncertainties concerning, the successful operation of its business.
The Group is, however, exposed to a wider range of risks than discussed below but these are the principal risks that have recently been discussed by the Board and Audit Committee and are of primary concern.
AREA RISK MITIGATION SUPPLY CHAIN The Group operates internationally so is The Group is subject to the risks associated with The Group requires all suppliers to sign up to the Groups Code of Ethics Supply reliant on the successful distribution of international trade and transport as well as those Policy which enables the Group to monitor and benchmark the performance of goods from when they are distributed by relating to exposure to different legal and other the supplier.
It allows the Group to carry out inspections of premises to ensure the manufacturer to when they are sold standards.
Particular risks including worker strikes, compliance with the Groups codes for continuity and quality of supply.
failure to meet minimum code of conduct standards, extends throughout the duration of the Groups contract with each supplier and and transport delays for products which could all allows the Group to conduct inspections of supplier premises at random intervals.
The Group is reliant on manufacturers in cause substantial difficulties.
developing countries as the majority of Many risks relating to the supply chain, reliance on non-UK suppliers, and to the the Groups products are sourced from Disasters in or around the factories of our suppliers reputation of the Groups brands are managed and mitigated by the implementation outside the UK.
could bring negative media attention to the Group.
Strong Service Level Agreements and maintaining relationships with all parties involved in the supply chain also mitigate these risks.
KEY SUPPLIERS The Group is reliant on good A failure to replace any of its major manufacturers The Group follows policies of forging long-term relationships with suppliers and relationships with its major or suppliers on commercially reasonable terms could of utilising two leading supply chain companies to procure much of the Groups manufacturers, key brands or have an adverse effect on the Groups business, own branded goods.
This close relationship brings a better understanding of brand suppliers.
operating profit or overall financial condition.
It may the suppliers resources enabling the Group to react quickly to changes in the mean that customers shop elsewhere if stores cannot international supply market.
Lengthy contracts are often used by the Group to ensure that key manufacturers are aware of our commitment to them.
TREASURY AND FINANCIAL RISK 18 The Group operates internationally.
The The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising The Group seeks to mitigate the FX fluctuations by hedging via forward foreign majority of foreign contracts relating to from various currency exposures and a strengthening currency contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
the sourcing of Group branded goods of the US Dollar or a weakening of the Pound making The Group also holds assets overseas in local currency, and these assets are are denominated in US Dollars and the goods more expensive.
revalued in accordance with currency movements.
This currency risk is not hedged.
Euro, thus leaving exposure to foreign Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial exchange risk.
The Group is cash generative and is now targeting its debt levels to mitigate interest transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are rate risk and currently has debt levels of less than 1 x underlying EBITDA.
The Group has net borrowings, which denominated in a currency that is not the entitys are principally at floating interest rates functional currency, as exchange rates move.
This linked to bank base rates or LIBOR.
CREDIT AND LIQUIDITY RISK The Group, primarily the Brands division, The Group could have a credit risk if credit evaluations The Groups key suppliers also face credit risk and as such the Group regularly provides credit to some of its customers.
were not performed on all customers requiring credit assesses the viability of its suppliers and ensures there are plans to source from over a certain amount.
alternative businesses should key suppliers fail.
Funding and liquidity for the Groups operations are provided through The Groups objective is to maintain sufficient funding Rigorous procedures are in place to mitigate this credit risk.
The Group has a credit bank loans, overdrafts and and liquidity for its requirements, but the availability policy in place and the exposure to risk is monitored on an on-going basis.
of adequate cash resources from bank facilities and Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain achieving continuity of funding in the current financial amount, and concentration of credit risk is managed.
climate could be a risk to the Group in future years.
Investment of cash surplus, borrowings and derivative investments are made The purchase of acquisitions to strengthen and through banks and companies which have credit ratings and investment criteria compliment the Group may be hindered.
Relationships with suppliers could break down if The Group mitigates liquidity risk by keeping debt levels low and the current finance we are unable to pay them in line with our facility is held with a club of 13 banks, thereby spreading the risk.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 SUCCESSION PLANNING Key individuals within the Group Natural disaster, illness, injury, or the sudden Our departments work together to develop their understanding of each department have such a level of knowledge and resignation of key individuals could change the and of the Group.
Senior managers work at ground level to help to assess the experience of the business which makes direction of the Group.
strengths within their teams and to offer development opportunities where them essential to continue to further the appropriate.
This can be of assistance when considering the suitability of internal interests of the business.
Promotion opportunities, a competency framework, and regular appraisals give staff a voice, encourage a sense of responsibility and support career progression.
Our structured talent management programmes, and specialist masterclasses, encourage internal progression within the Group.
Executive development is important to us and we aim to promote internally rather than recruit external individuals who are unknown to the Group.
This can be best seen through the recent promotion of Matt Pearson to Acting Chief Financial Officer.
Our Share Schemes seek to reward and retain our key members of staff.
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the succession plan of the Group, and discusses who would take over roles if key team members were to leave.
MARKET FORCES The Sports Retail industry is highly The competition continues to place pressure on the The Group has a discount pricing policy to help reduce the risk of increased competitive and the Group currently Groups pricing strategy, margins and profitability.
competes at national and local levels The Group has a strong property portfolio, and continues to strengthen this by with a wide variety of retailers of relocating and improving stores to adapt to market conditions.
varying sizes who may have competitive advantages.
New competitors may enter A number of key brands are owned by the Group, reducing pressure on margins.
The Groups focus on acquiring competitors enables us to retain our discounted pricing systems without price increases from the brand owners.
19 OPERATIONAL The Group is reliant on the Head Office Any disruption to the Head Office, National The Group has a strong business continuity plan that is regularly reviewed to and National Distribution Centre at Distribution Centre or the fleet of vehicles might address operational risks.
Shirebrook operating without disruption, significantly impact the Groups ability to manage The Board is confident that as far as it is practical, the risks and uncertainties along with the uninterrupted running of its operations, distribute products to its stores and that face the Group are being monitored and managed and that, where required, the Groups fleet of vehicles.
appropriate action is being taken.
The majority of the Groups revenue is Any long-term interruption of the Groups IT systems The Group constantly monitors the business environment and the nature derived from the UK.
would have a significant impact on the Groups of the business model allows for the Group to act swiftly under operation, particularly in the Retail division.
Terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, government actions The Group is extending the Head Office and National Distribution Centre so that or adverse weather affecting the road networks there is additional room for storage and workers, for future business needs and in within the UK could result in a significant reduction in case of disaster.
consumer confidence, which would in turn have an adverse affect on sales in stores.
CYBER FAILURES AND ATTACKS Online sales and advertising are key Reputational implications if the attack is reported The Group has a strategy and processes in place which relate to our IT security.
to the Groups strategy going forward.
to the media, including a loss of sales whilst the Working with internal and external parties, our colleagues continuously monitor However cyber attacks are becoming site is down, and longer term loss of sales through our systems to ensure that they are sufficiently strong to deal with ever increasing more sophisticated and frequent, the deterioration of customer confidence.
commanding headlines and losing sanctions and penalties from overseeing bodies, During 2014, a review of the IT risks was completed.
The review looked into the customers trust.
and the loss of competitive advantage against resilience of the current systems, highlighting the major points of concern regarding market competitors.
The matters raised will be worked on over the next two to three year period in a follow up monitoring programme.
Our IT and Risks teams have held workshops to assess the key technology threats to the Group, and look into where policies require updating and amending.
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUPS BUSINESS CONTINUED HEALTH & SAFETY Health and safety is key across all areas Potential injuries, distress and fatalities could We ensure that each Company within the Group is fully trained to the required of the Group.
Policies are implemented, result from a failure to establish and maintain safe standards applicable in each requisite country.
in conjunction with legal standards, to environments.
Lack of competence in health and Training courses are regularly offered and staff are encouraged to learn essential protect our staff and customers.
safety reporting could lead to legal claims which are health and safety techniques.
The team at Head Office is always on hand to visit and assist stores with health and safety issues, assess incidents and refer reportable matters to RIDOR.
During the year the team has gained another strand by creating a team of employees which is dedicated to solely dealing with claims and complaints.
The incidents within the Group are reported to the Board regularly, as are the legal claims that arise from these.
The Board consider ways to reduce the number of claims.
LEGAL The Groups trade marks, patents, The Group believes that its licensees, suppliers, The Group has an in-house legal team who have knowledge of a variety of designs and other intellectual property agents and distributors are in material compliance legal areas that apply to the Group.
This in-house expertise is vital in mitigating rights are central to the value of the with employment, environmental and other laws.
The violation, or allegations of a violation, of such The legal team work closely with external consultants to assist with, and gain laws or regulations, by any of the Groups licensees, knowledge on, matters outside their areas of expertise.
suppliers, agents or distributors, could lead to adverse publicity and a decline in public demand for The Groups legal team actively monitor trade mark applications by other the Groups products, or require the Group to incur companies, as well as the stock of rival retailers, to ensure that our rights are not expenditure or make changes to its supply chain and infringed and where these are infringed, to take appropriate action.
other business arrangements to ensure compliance.
The legal team carefully draft all correspondence to ensure that documentation The Group may need to resort to litigation in the is clear and legally binding.
Drafting templates and key points are shared so that future to enforce its intellectual property rights and knowledge is retained within the Group.
any litigation could result in substantial costs and a 20 diversion of resources.
Third parties may try to challenge the ownership of or counterfeit the Groups intellectual property.
SALES The Groups retail businesses are subject Prolonged unseasonal weather conditions or Although unable to mitigate environmental conditions, the Group is able to influence to seasonal peaks.
The incidence of and temporary severe weather during peak trading the retail portfolio and therefore constantly monitors development of stores and participation in major sporting events seasons could have a material adverse effect on the the Groups aim to increase the square footage through viable new retail space.
By will have a particular impact on the Groups businesses.
The Group is dependent upon the monitoring stock levels through sales forecasting the Group can manage the peaks Sports Retail business.
store portfolio and consumers spending habits.
in demand and trading profiles can be predicted.
Customer tastes could change and stocked items Building sales units at our Head Office and National Distribution Centre allows us to could no longer be suitable for the market.
trial and monitor differing sales techniques and products, before rolling these out to the rest of the Group.
Our team keep ahead of the trends, conducting market research on our customers and monitoring our competitors.
Sophisticated ordering systems ensure that items which sell well in particular areas will be restocked.
Our strong relationship with suppliers ensures that we are able to source key items at short notice, should this be required.
