Strategic Report Risk management Managing risk to deliver long term value To ensure success, any business must fully understand and manage the key risks that it faces and make decisions with a proper consideration of these.
Everyone in SSE has a responsibility for financial framework are fully reflective of the management of risk identifying and its risk appetite: protecting the business from outcomes which - SSE seeks to avoid over-exposure to could threaten the achievement of objectives any single part of the energy sector and or compromise the SSE SET of core values.
therefore maintains a balanced range of During the course of the year, SSE further economically regulated and market-based developed its framework for risk management energy businesses: to increase risk awareness and to provide - production, storage, transmission, structure and support for risk management distribution, supply and related services activities across the organisation.
As part of provide a balanced portfolio of business this work, a comprehensive review of SSEs activities whilst keeping the depth of focus Group Principal Risks was carried out, and full on a single sector energy: and Divisional and Group Risk Appetite Statements - Great Britain and Ireland give SSE a have been developed to ensure proper geographic markets focus and a clear alignment of strategy and objectives with understanding of the risks and opportunities risk taking at all levels.
Risk appetite In areas where SSE is exposed to risks that it No business is risk-free, and indeed the has little or no appetite for, although it has achievement of SSEs goals necessarily implemented high standards of control and involves taking risks.
SSE will however only mitigation, the nature of these risks mean accept risk where it is appropriate, wellthat they cannot be eliminated completely.
understood, can be effectively managed and offers commensurate reward.
In determining its appetite for specific risks, the Board is guided by three key principles: Each of SSEs business divisions has a distinctly 1.
Risks should be consistent with SSEs strategy, different risk profile.
For example, the Networks financial objective and core values: business is heavily regulated and is characterised 2.
Risks should only be accepted where by stable, inflation-linked cashflows whereas appropriate reward is achievable on the Everyone in SSE has the Wholesale business is heavily exposed to basis of objective evidence: and energy market and commodity risk.
Risks should be actively managed and a responsibility for the transformation and political risk particularly monitored through the appropriate allocation management of risk.
affect the Retail business, while Enterprise of management and other resources.
is exposed to the risks that come with rapid growth in a highly competitive market place.
The Board has overall responsibility for Further detail on these principal risks, determining the nature and extent of the risk including a full definition, the potential The key elements of SSEs strategy including it is willing to take and for ensuring that risks impact and the actions being taken to the diversity of energy businesses within the are managed effectively across the Group.
mitigate them, can be found on pages SSE Group described above, as well as its 66 to 71 and in the Group Principal Risk Report on sse.
Principal risks solvency or liquidity.
The review also considered groups is critical and any damage to SSEs A detailed review of SSEs principal risks was risks which could compromise the SSE SET of reputation is highly likely to be reflected completed in 2014 15.
The process involved core values.
face to face workshops with senior managers from across the Group, followed by review In addition to direct impacts, the principal risks It should be noted that risks which are not from divisional leadership teams, the Executive can also pose a significant threat to the reputation currently known to SSE, or risks which are Committee and SSE Board.
of the Group, affecting its relationship with currently deemed to be of lower significance, customers, investors, regulators and other key can also impact on the business either as a This review identified 10 principal risks being stakeholders.
To achieve success as a long-term consequence of an individual event or due those which have a potential to threaten the SSE sustainable business, maintaining a good to a series of relatively minor issues.
Groups business model, future performance, reputation and a positive relationship with these SSEs principal risks A detailed review of SSEs principal risks was completed in 2014 15.
This review identified the following 10 principal risks, which will form the basis of SSEs future strategic risk management approach.
Commodity prices Infrastructure failure The Groups Wholesale and Retail businesses are exposed The Group is reliant on the availability of critical IT and to volatility in the commodity markets.
network infrastructure to support ongoing operations and cash flow.
Energy affordability Major projects quality The Group continues to face ongoing challenges to Successful delivery of the Groups capital programme provide energy that is secure, reliable and affordable.
relies on the quality and performance of key suppliers and technology.
Funding shortfall Pension liability The Group is dependent on the continuing availability The Group has a number of defined benefit Pension of capital to meet funding requirements and obligations.
Human and relationship Political and regulatory capital management change The Group is reliant on attracting, developing and retaining The markets in which the Group operates are subject to a competent and responsible workforce.
regulatory and legislative intervention at both domestic and EU level.
Industry and company Safety and environmental transformation management The Group must continually adapt to industry Many Group operations are undertaken in hazardous developments, technology innovations and changing environments with the potential for injury or damage customer needs.
