STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks The Groups financial and operational risks, how they have changed and how they are managed are shown below.
RISK RISK DESCRIPTION RISK CHANGE RELATED HOW WE MANAGE THEME AND IMPACT 2015 STRATEGIC PILLARS THE RISK 1 Availability of Growing demand for healthcare, changes to the working requirements and a limited supply of appropriately The Board focuses on staff retention, evidenced by very high levels of staff satisfaction and, hence, key medical staff qualified key medical staff, leads to a shortage of medical staff.
Profitable growth, in line with the Groups low staff turnover, and its excellent reputation to attract new staff.
strategy, requires an expansion of clinical services in hospitals, particularly including more complex surgical Overseas recruitment of English-speaking nurses is being used to mitigate the UK shortage of procedures and ongoing treatment of higher-risk patients, which could be impacted by a shortage of key trained nursing staff and to reduce the cost of using agency staff.
In order to expand our directory of services at hospital level, in line with our strategy, it is vital The Group believes consultants are attracted by its advanced facilities, technology and equipment, to have access to appropriately qualified, self-employed consultants.
excellent brand and reputation, the availability of a broad range of treatments, skilled nursing staff The market may see salary rates rise as competition for staff increases and, as a result, the Groups costs may and medical support staff, and the efficiency of administrative support.
The Group undertakes increase and its profits may reduce.
continuous investment in its equipment, facilities and services to retain high-quality consultants and also provides theatre capacity to new consultants.
This is confirmed by high consultant satisfaction levels.
An employee survey is conducted annually to establish employee satisfaction and, where appropriate, changes in working practices are made in response to the survey findings to aid retention.
2 Clinical care The Groups future growth depends upon its ability to maintain its reputation for high-quality services Spire Healthcare continually monitors its clinical standards, policies and procedures through the by meeting its quality goals.
Poor clinical outcomes, negative media comment or patient, GP and or Boards Clinical Governance and Safety Committee.
consultant dissatisfaction could reduce the quality ratings, which could lead to a loss of patient referrals During 2015, effective management information and associated reporting have been developed and lost earnings.
and are now provided to the Executive Committee on a regular basis for greater transparency.
A number of key performance indicators are used in the assessment of clinical standards and these may be found in the Clinical review.
The Group reviews and maintains insurance to mitigate the possibility of a major loss.
Adequacy of cover is reviewed annually with the Groups brokers.
3 Macroeconomic Approximately 67% of the Groups revenue is dependent on private patients having private medical The Board manages this risk by regularly reviewing market conditions and economic indicators conditions insurance PMI, paid by their employer or paid by the individual, or being able to afford its services Self-pay.
to assess whether actions are required.
In an economic downturn, the number of insured individuals falls with the level of employment and As successfully employed in the recent economic downturn, if the private market contracts, the individuals have reduced real income to fund insurance or Self-pay for procedures.
Group can try to reduce costs and future investment to improve profit and cash flow, and may be able to offer the released capacity to the NHS at its lower tariff, reducing the impact on profit.
This would have an adverse effect on the Groups business, the results of its operations and prospects.
50 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our strategic pillars 1.
To drive efficiency and through a clear focus on of existing sites by services, particularly for the improve productivity our three payor groups growing volume treatment of cancer Key: Risk increased Risk remained stable Risk decreased RISK RISK DESCRIPTION RISK CHANGE RELATED HOW WE MANAGE THEME AND IMPACT 2015 STRATEGIC PILLARS THE RISK 1 Availability of Growing demand for healthcare, changes to the working requirements and a limited supply of appropriately The Board focuses on staff retention, evidenced by very high levels of staff satisfaction and, hence, key medical staff qualified key medical staff, leads to a shortage of medical staff.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 51 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks continued RISK RISK DESCRIPTION RISK CHANGE RELATED HOW WE MANAGE THEME AND IMPACT 2015 STRATEGIC PILLARS THE RISK 4 Government Change in the medium-term public funding of NHS services provision, and or the prioritisation of this The Group believes that the private sector has become a fundamental partner of the NHS across policy funding to particular service lines over time elective healthcare, A&E, community care, etc.
The continued use of private facilities is, in Spire Healthcares view, the best way to meet reduce the flow of NHS patients to Spire Healthcare.
the challenges facing the NHS, particularly as there is limited capacity within the NHS to take back work currently undertaken by the private sector.
Changes in the service level requirements for providers of NHS services, and service level commitments to members of the public served by the NHS, could adversely impact the attractiveness of privately The Groups service levels are confirmed by regular surveys of patients, GPs and consultants, which funded treatment.
provide ongoing feedback to ensure NHS requirements whether as providers or as commitments to its patients are met.
In addition, the Board regularly reviews the competitiveness of its patient Changes in fiscal policy could increase the burden of welfare resulting in a reduction of NHS-funded options.
offering both NHS and private patients.
A fundamental change in the tariff structure pricing arrangements associated with the provision of services The Board continually monitors government policy, NHS requirements and associated tariff structures to the NHS could result in reduced access to patients, reduced tariffs, or reduced prices leading to reduced to consider the need for cost and or investment reduction, whether in the short, medium or long term.
5 Compliance with The Group operates in a highly regulated environment, including complying with the requirements of, The Group is in the process of strengthening its Group-wide risk management framework laws, regulations for example, the CQC, Monitor and the CMA.
and associated policies and procedures to ensure that risks are mitigated as far as possible, and other the executive management team has appropriate visibility to ensure robust decision making, and Failure to comply with laws, regulations or regulatory standards may expose the Group to patient claims, applicable the Group has the ability to monitor and react to the changing regulatory framework of a listed fines, penalties, damage to reputation, suspension from the treatment of NHS patients, loss of hospital requirements company in the healthcare sector.
license and loss of private patients, such that the Group may not be able to operate one or more of its hospitals, causing a significant reduction in profit.
The Group has a significant centralised clinical team which assists hospitals in establishing and maintaining a high level of clinical performance.
The CQC has initiated its new inspection regime which assesses and rates hospitals and makes these results publicly available.
If a hospital fared badly in one of these inspections, or a process embedded throughout the Emerging legal or regulatory changes are monitored by the Board, the Executive Committee and Group was considered unacceptable it could result in one or many hospitals being assessed as Inadequate the Safety Quality and Risk Committee, in addition to consultations with external advisers and which could have significant regulatory and reputational impacts.
In addition, the Group could fail to anticipate legal or regulatory changes leading to a significant financial or reputational impact.
6 Competitor Spire Healthcare operates in a highly competitive market.
New or existing competitors may enter the market The Group maintains a watching brief on new and existing competitor activity and retains the challenge of one or more of our existing hospitals, or offer new services.
ability to react quickly to changes in patient and market demand.
The potential impact would be the loss of market share due to a new competitor and reduced profitability The Group considers that a partial mitigation of the impact of competitor activity is ensured by and cash flow.
providing patients with high-quality care and by maintaining good working relationships with GPs and consultants.
7 Insurance Healthcare companies, including Spire Healthcare, are sometimes subject to actions alleging negligence, The Group holds third-party liability insurance to partially cover patient, third-party and employee malpractice and other legal claims that may involve large potential damages and significant defence costs, personal injury claims, and is partially self-insured up to predetermined levels, above which its whether or not the defendant is ultimately found liable.
The Group could be subject to litigation for actions by third parties or may be found liable for damages which The Group reviews and maintains insurance adequacy of cover annually with the Groups brokers.
may not be covered by its insurance policies, if the claims are in excess of cover or claims are not covered by the Groups insurance due to other policy limitations or exclusions or where it has failed to comply with the terms of the policy.
The Groups insurance premiums may increase and, if there is a significant deterioration in its claims experience, insurance may not be available on acceptable terms.
52 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our strategic pillars 1.
To drive efficiency and through a clear focus on of existing sites by services, particularly for the improve productivity our three payor groups growing volume treatment of cancer Key: Risk increased Risk remained stable Risk decreased RISK RISK DESCRIPTION RISK CHANGE RELATED HOW WE MANAGE THEME AND IMPACT 2015 STRATEGIC PILLARS THE RISK 4 Government Change in the medium-term public funding of NHS services provision, and or the prioritisation of this The Group believes that the private sector has become a fundamental partner of the NHS across policy funding to particular service lines over time elective healthcare, A&E, community care, etc.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 53 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks continued RISK RISK DESCRIPTION RISK CHANGE RELATED HOW WE MANAGE THEME AND IMPACT 2015 STRATEGIC PILLARS THE RISK 8 Cybersecurity The Groups information technology platform supports, among other things, management control of patient The Group has a three-year IT plan outlining the strategy developed in order to support the administration, billing and financial information and reporting processes.
In common with other corporate business.
There are forums which relevant business and IT stakeholders attend to discuss the IT plan organisations, the Group faces the challenges of a continually evolving external cyberthreat landscape, and and projects, including monthly meetings to discuss changes to SAP enhancements and NHS could become vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruption from unauthorised tampering.
developments and senior leadership team meetings held quarterly.
The Groups Information Technology Continuity Plans continue to be reviewed, updated and tested to ensure relevance.
The Groups business could be disrupted if its information systems fail or if its databases are breached, destroyed or damaged.
This could cause financial and reputational impacts.
9 Concentration The PMI market is concentrated, with the top four companies Bupa, AXA, Aviva and VitalityHealth The Group works hard to maintain good relationships and a joint product patient health offering of PMI market formerly PruHealth having a market share of over 85%.
with the PMI companies, which, in the opinion of the Directors, assists the healthcare sector as a whole in delivering high-quality patient care.
Loss of an existing contractual relationship with any of the key insurers could significantly reduce revenue and profit.
The Board believes continuing to invest in its well-placed portfolio of hospitals should provide a natural fit to the local requirements of all the PMI providers.
Further consolidation of the PMI market may lead to additional restrictions which could decrease profitability or increase the consequential loss of a partner.
The Group has entered into contracts to continue the good relationships for the long-term and to reduce the Groups risk.
10 Investment plans The capital investment programme which includes IT system developments, and the construction of two The Group conducts a detailed financial and operational appraisal process to evaluate the expected and execution new hospitals for the Group consists of the largest number of parallel developments undertaken to date.
returns on capital during the evaluation phase of the project.
With any major project, there are risks such as major cost overrun or substantial delay in delivery which could Robust project management is employed throughout the project, from the evaluation, to the bid impact upon the expected returns, the Groups planned profit growth and future cash flow.
process, agreement of contract terms and conditions, cost forecasting, as well as regular monitoring and management of progress.
Regular reporting of all significant projects to the executive sponsor and the Board is provided.
11 Liquidity and The Group may have insufficient liquid resources to meet its financial liabilities as they fall due, or breach The Group actively monitors and manages its liquid asset position, its financial liabilities falling due covenant risk financial covenants linked to its borrowings.
and the cover against its loan covenants.
Failure to meet its obligations or covenants would have a substantial adverse effect on the Groups Forward projections show that the Group can meet its liquidity requirements from existing liquid reputation and may lead to borrowings becoming repayable earlier than contracted for.
assets and maintain its loan covenant obligations, even in adverse scenarios.
In addition, there is a committed, undrawn revolving credit facility of 100 million available to meet liquidity needs, if required.
In an adverse scenario, capital expenditure could be cut back to reduce the demand on liquidity.
54 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our strategic pillars 1.
To drive efficiency and through a clear focus on of existing sites by services, particularly for the improve productivity our three payor groups growing volume treatment of cancer Key: Risk increased Risk remained stable Risk decreased RISK RISK DESCRIPTION RISK CHANGE RELATED HOW WE MANAGE THEME AND IMPACT 2015 STRATEGIC PILLARS THE RISK 8 Cybersecurity The Groups information technology platform supports, among other things, management control of patient The Group has a three-year IT plan outlining the strategy developed in order to support the administration, billing and financial information and reporting processes.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 55 STRATEGIC REPORT PATIENTS: AT THE HEART OF EVERYTHING WE DO INCREASED CAPACITY AND NEW SERVICES Meeting growing demand, across the country Julie Peters on site at Spire St Anthonys Hospital STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Creating new hospitals and expanding our existing ones without disrupting patient care requires specialist planning and development skills.
BUILDING FOR THE FUTURE Spire Healthcare has invested At Spire St Anthonys Hospital, six new substantially every year weve been in theatres, a new physiotherapy suite with existence in new and expanded hospitals.
a gym and hydrotherapy, an enlarged recovery unit, additional consulting rooms In 2015, we opened our second new-build and an expanded car park, are all due to be Specialist Care Centre in Baddow, and completed by mid 2016. a new theatre, opened at Spire Elland Hospital, will benefit more than 2,000 And two entirely new-build hospitals patients from the local area in its first year.
in Nottingham and Manchester will add six theatres and 86 in-patient beds to our capacity in 2017.
DEDICATED TEAM 109.5m Our specialist development team has all the skills needed for the fast, efficient and capital expenditure in 2015 cost-effective delivery of new-build, expansion and refurbishment projects across the country, from original concept to first patients receiving treatment.
Including the development of the Manchester and Nottingham Group Development Director hospitals, the Spire Specialist Care Centre in Baddow and theatre developments at Spire St Anthonys Business Development Construction Capital Projects and Spire Elland hospitals.
Head of New Ventures x1 Estates and Building Head of Project Delivery x1 Business Development, Projects Manager x1 Business Project Cancer Services x1 Construction Project Manager x1 Portfolio Managers x2 Managers x2 Project Co-ordinator x1 More information on our developments can be found on pages 38 to 39 DEVELOPMENT SPECIALISTS Our skilled and experienced development As Julie Peters from our central team uses proven project management development team says, These highly methodologies to deliver these highly complex developments combine planning, complex developments to strict design, clinical, commercial, IT and timetables and budgets.
Our job is to make sure the hospital isnt just there, but Success is built on constant that the clinical staff are recruited and communication, the absolute expectation trained, it passes its CQC inspection and that all contractors will deliver, and everything is fully operational on day one.
meticulous attention to all aspects of the project from community And that we deliver on time and even engagement to planning, from under budget!
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 57
