STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management and internal control Overall responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal control systems lies with the Board of Directors.
The Board has delegated oversight to two committees.
The Audit and Risk Committee, with the management that hospitals are complying INTERNAL CONTROLS assistance of the Clinical Governance and with national clinical standards and Spire The principal internal controls and assurance Safety Committee CGSC, provides the Healthcares policies and procedures.
Where activity over the risks that are directly Board with advice on the Groups overall risk any gaps are identified, these are reported manageable by the Group are: appetite and strategy, and a view on the and acted upon promptly.
Standard policies and procedures current risk exposures, the future risk strategy, The Clinical Services team has developed The Group has documented policies and and the effectiveness of the Groups risk a detailed set of assurance reports in order standard procedures in place covering all management and internal control processes.
to provide management oversight at a Group significant activities and areas of risk, which The risk management framework is designed and hospital level.
are subject to regular review and update.
to identify, evaluate and mitigate the risks RISK MANAGEMENT Assurance over clinical delivery and clinical that the Group faces at all levels.
The The Board recognises that the Group needs regulatory compliance risks underlying process aims to provide robust to comply with both the UK Corporate As a provider of clinical services to patients, management information to enable conscious Governance Code and increasing regulatory the Group faces a specific set of non-financial risk-based decision making.
expectations for listed companies risk risks associated with such provision.
In In 2015, the Risk Appetite and Risk Strategy management and internal control processes.
relation to these risks: were reviewed and agreed by the Board to The risk management framework was the corporate Clinical Services team, which ensure a consistent level of understanding reviewed by the Board and its committees is independent of the hospital operations of risk tolerance and acceptable level of risk during 2015, and it will continue to evolve and and is led by the Group Medical Director, to the Group as well as a clear strategy on risk develop as the level of risk maturity increases oversees a national programme of clinical management processes going forward.
audits, in addition to conducting on-site The Board recognises that it has limited clinical reviews of every hospital and CORPORATE RISKS control over many of the external risks it non-hospital unit, according to the All significant risks facing the Group are faces, such as macroeconomic events and the approach taken at regulatory inspections.
captured within a Corporate Risk Register complex regulatory environment.
However, it These form part of the overall framework and are assessed in terms of consequence is important to consider the potential impact for clinical governance and quality, to and likelihood.
Each such risk is owned by of such ongoing risks to the business and ensure that clinical risk and clinical a member of the senior leadership team who where possible develop contingency plans to regulatory compliance is managed works to monitor and mitigate that risk.
The minimise the impact of these external risks.
effectively across all registered sites.
The Corporate Risk Register is reviewed on a results of these activities are regularly regular basis, and in response to changes in CLINICAL GOVERNANCE AND SAFETY reviewed by the corporate Clinical Services the risk environment for example in response COMMITTEE team, Operations Directors, Matrons, the to an incident.
The principal risks facing the During 2015, the CGSC chaired by Dame Janet Executive Committee and the CGSC: Group are drawn from the Corporate Risk Husband focused on key clinical risks and Register and are linked to the Strategic Pillars comprehensive, non-financial trends including the review of notifiable of the Group.
These are also reviewed on a management information on clinical incidents and external regulatory inspections regular basis and changes from last year are performance, including safety, clinical across the Group.
The corporate Clinical indicated in the Principal risks section on effectiveness and customer experience, Services team has developed a detailed pages 50 to 55. is produced and reviewed quarterly hospital review methodology and internal against pre-agreed standards by the inspection programme that provides corporate Clinical Services team, assurance to the CGSC and senior level Operations Directors, Matrons, the Executive Committee and the CGSC.
Specific KPI measures drawn from this management information are given on page 35: 48 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION the Group is subject to substantial levels Other non-financial operational risks are specific independent reviews undertaken of external inspection and review, both by managed by means of the application of best within an Internal Audit framework, the the range of national healthcare regulators practice, as defined by Group policies and scope of which is set by the Audit and Risk and through invited assurance inspections standard procedures, in areas such as project Committee based on a periodic review of the such as the rolling programme of health management, human resources management risk register and internal controls.
and safety inspections carried out by and IT security and delivery, supported by CONTINUOUS LEARNING third-party specialists.
The outcomes detailed performance monitoring of outputs Accepting that internal control systems and of these activities are reviewed by the and issues.
robust risk management cannot guarantee Executive Committee and the CGSC: and to reduce error or loss to zero, the Group takes INTERNAL AUDIT INTERNAL CONTROL the structures and processes for internal all instances of complaints, control failures, ASSURANCE confirmation of clinical regulatory regulatory non-compliance or other risk The need for an Internal Audit function was compliance and the level of evidence events or near misses very seriously, and reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee and assurance required to monitor this has a detailed process in place to take action during the year.
It is anticipated that the on an ongoing basis have been further in respect of each specific issue identified, structure of the function will be formalised strengthened and formalised in 2015. to understand the cause and to learn from and the remit of the Internal Audit activities the event wherever possible, so that the will be further redefined during 2016.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL CONTROLS chance of reoccurrence is minimised.
An open Financial control is established through: The Group has not historically considered culture is actively promoted and monitored it necessary to establish an Internal Audit within the Group that positively encourages the annual process of preparing business function, in part because of the way hospitals the reporting of all risk events and other plans and budgets, followed up by close and administration activities are structured, issues arising.
The number and nature of monitoring of operational performance by which means that the initiation of events arising and the operation of event the executive management and the Board: transactions is entirely separated from the management processes are closely monitored monthly monitoring of actual results, delivery of the associated services and their by hospital management, the Executive compared to budgets, forecasts and the financial recording, and the low level of Committee, the Audit and Risk Committee previous year: delegated authority at hospital level limits and the CGSC.
Reliance is placed on the all material capital expenditure is subject to The Group operates an independent management review process, transactionan investment evaluation and authorisation whistleblowing service to facilitate reporting level controls built into business processes procedure: of any issues or concerns that staff may and other forms of assurance activity and have that they are unwilling to raise via any common accounting policies and audits being performed across the Group, other channel.
procedures: and including clinical audits, health and safety audits and regulatory inspections.
the Groups treasury position and forecast liquidity are kept under review to ensure The Audit and Risk Committee has decided that borrowings are aligned with the that the assurance provided by these Groups growth and are in compliance processes will be supplemented in certain with banking covenants.
specific areas through the procurement of VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Corporate Governance Code, the Directors assessed the viability of the Group and have adopted a period of three years for the assessment.
A three-year period was selected as it corresponds with the Boards strategic planning horizon.
Whilst existing bank facilities extend until July 2019, this viability assessment has also considered the ability of the Group to refinance bank facilities at the end of the three-year period based on current market-lending multiples.
The assessment conducted considered the Groups revenue, EBITDA, operating profit, cash flows and loan covenants over the three-year period.
These metrics were subject to severe downside stress testing and sensitivity analyses over the assessment period, taking account of the Groups current position, the Groups experience of managing adverse conditions in the past and the impact of a number of severe yet plausible scenarios, based on the principal risks set out in the Strategic Report.
These scenarios may be summarised as follows: Spire Healthcare is unable to access sufficient numbers of appropriately qualified clinical staff, restricting growth, driving up clinical staff costs and constraining the capacity of new hospital developments: a key hospital is subject to temporary suspension of trade, with a permanent adverse impact on revenues, for example, due to failure to meet CQC regulatory standards: the Group is subject to temporary suspension of trade, with a temporary adverse impact on revenue, for example, as a result of a successful cyberattack on key business systems: and the downside modelling of a number of risks which result in a decline in earnings, including lower NHS tariffs or referral rates or a general economic downturn.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 49
