Strategic Report Principal risks Understanding and managing our principal risks A detailed review of SSEs principal risks was completed in 2014 15.
The review identified 10 principal risks which have the potential to threaten SSE Groups business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
A detailed definition, outline of potential impact and action to mitigate each risk is outlined in this section.
An overview of SSEs approach to managing risk is provided on pages 12 and 13.
Managing our principal risks Identify Control Monitor and Report Principal risks are identified and assessed Once risks have been identified and Risks are continually monitored and in the context of each business units assessed, controls are put in place in developments communicated in objectives and the SSESET of core values.
order to reduce the exposure with management reporting to ensure that the This bottom up approach is reviewed for consideration given to SSEs risk appetite.
increasing materiality as outlined below.
Board Group principal risks The Executive Committee reviews the risk outputs from each of SSEs divisions as part of the process of Audit Committee identifying the principal risks to the Group.
This is then reviewed and confirmed by the Audit Committee and Board.
Executive Committee Wholesale Networks Retail Business principal risks Workshops identify risks at Enterprise the business unit level with Corporate the output used by senior management within each business to identify their principal risks.
Business units 66 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
Commodity prices Energy affordability What is the risk?
Exposures to the physical volume and price risk of certain commodities Energy costs make up around 5% of the average UK household including electricity, gas, coal, CO emissions permits and oil arise expenditure, a figure which for the poorest fifth of households rises to 2 from two main sources.
The total cost of energy is driven by a number of factors, including commodity costs, infrastructure costs, energy sector Firstly, there is a requirement to match volumes of purchased gas and overheads and Government levies aimed at supporting measures for the electricity with customer demand.
This exposure is influenced by a reduction of carbon emissions and increased energy efficiency.
number of factors including customer numbers, the weather and changes in energy use.
SSE is involved in all points of the value chain for energy in the UK and Ireland including production, storage, transmission, distribution, supply and In addition, exposures arise due to the difference in the cost of fuel and related services.
The decisions SSE takes in delivering these investments other commodities required for generation, and the electricity revenue and services contribute to the overall cost of energy to the consumer.
derived from SSEs long-life generation asset investments.
SSE is equally committed to keeping the cost of energy as affordable A significant proportion of SSEs profitability, including return on investment as possible, both now and over the long term, as it is to delivering the in power generation assets as well as the ability to price competitively in standard of service required by a modern economy.
the retail market, is dependent on the successful management of these If the cost of conventional energy production does not remain competitive, exposures.
A sub-optimal trading strategy could lead to significant financial there is likely to be increasing pressure from alternative sources of energy loss, loss of customers and increased political scrutiny.
as well as public and political pressure.
This could have a significant effect The markets for these commodities are driven by global supply and on the long term performance of all areas of the business with knock on demand, itself influenced by a number of complexities including effects to both demand and the customers ability to pay.
geopolitical events, global economic growth, the weather and technology.
The global commodity price makes up a significant How does SSE mitigate it?
part of the energy cost to the customer.
Increasing commodity - SSE works to develop innovative tariff structures, underpinned by prices affect the overall affordability of energy and can have an a commodity trading strategy, aimed at providing customers with impact on demand and customers ability to pay.
prices which are both competitive and stable.
- SSE actively argues for political action to drive down non-commodity How does SSE mitigate it?
related costs which make up a significant part of the average bill, - SSE uses Value at Risk VaR measures to monitor and control exposures including government-sponsored environmental and social policies to commodity price and volume.
Trading limits are set by the Board and and its smart meter roll-out costs.
To protect customers, particularly managed through the Risk and Trading Committee RTC.
the most vulnerable, SSE believes that these policies should be funded - Commodity positions are assessed on a daily basis by an independent through general taxation and be related to peoples ability to pay.
Risk Management team who also manage breaches of limits according - SSEs customer charter sets out the steps it takes to support customers to a defined escalation and governance process.
who are having difficulty paying their bills, encouraging early - The RTC takes an active role in approving trading hedging strategies engagement to work together on an arrangement that allows and maintains a framework of individual trader limits, counter-party payments to be sensibly managed.
credit limits and cumulative trading limits.
- SSEs generation business operates a balanced portfolio of assets which - SSEs Capital Allocation Group ensures and makes recommendations reduces the reliance on a single technology or fuel type in turn helping to the Executive Committee on the efficient use and allocation of to reduce volatility in the overall costs of energy.
capital in the Wholesale business.
Decisions to invest in long term - Through the Distribution Price Control Review process, SSE has generation assets are taken by the Board and consider a number of proposed significant reductions in the distribution component of potential commodity price scenarios which are developed using electricity bills and improvements in the standard of service that internal and third party expertise.
customers will receive from their network operators.
Ofgems final - SSE has an Energy Economics department which provides determinations propose a real reduction in the distribution share of commodity price forecasts which are used to inform decisions the average household bill which is a significant contributor to the on trading strategy and asset investment.
- SSE works to develop innovative tariff structures, underpinned by a commodity trading strategy, aimed at providing customers with prices which are both competitive and stable.
67 Strategic Report Principal risks continued Funding shortfall Human and relationship capital management What is the risk?
SSEs policy is to ensure that it has at all times funds available to meet its SSEs people are one of its most valuable assets, playing a major part in liabilities when these fall due under both normal and stressed conditions, the continued success of the business and it is those people who will without incurring unacceptable costs or risking damage to its reputation.
deliver the business transformation critical to delivering on strategy.
The actions of SSEs people influence the relationship it has with SSE typically funds refinancing and future borrowing requirements customers as well as the wider reputation of the business, both of which by issuing senior bonds and hybrid capital.
In addition, it utilises bank are central to SSEs differentiation in a competitive market.
borrowings, index-linked loans and private placements.
If these sources of funding were unavailable to meet either increases in overall borrowing There is increasing competition for skilled individuals, both within the requirements or to refinance maturing debt it could impact on SSEs energy sector and increasingly from other industries.
If SSE cannot retain, ability to meet its commitments and in turn could force a curtailment attract and develop diverse talent, it will have an impact on both the of its capital investment programme, adversely impact credit ratings development plans for the business and the continuity of existing and ultimately affect SSEs ability to trade.
Poorly executed knowledge transfer between colleagues, particularly in parts of the business with an ageing demographic, could lead How does SSE mitigate it?
to reduced performance and may threaten SSEs plans for improvement.
- SSEs approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that the Group has Everyone at SSE is expected to comply with legislation, regulation and available committed borrowings and facilities equal to at least 105% internal policy, including the SSESET of values, and it is important that of forecast borrowings over a rolling 6 month period.
everyone is responsible and acts with integrity at all times.
The current - This approach is informed by detailed medium to long term cash pace of political and regulatory change, combined with the inherent forecasting which takes into account anticipated changes in business complexity of SSEs activities, make it increasingly important that activity, markets and funding position.
everyone at SSE is able to readily question the status quo and always strive for continuous improvement.
- The Board, through the Audit Committee, considers the medium term funding plan including a detailed market update report in May each year.
In many cases SSEs activities involve being welcomed into customers - SSE maintains a group of relationship banks who support the homes and afforded a level of trust, something that it takes very seriously.
companys financing activities through their ongoing participation There are certain roles in which misjudged or malicious behaviour could in committed lending facilities which currently total 1.5bn.
lead to significant financial impact or a loss in investor confidence, - SSE seeks to maintain a diversified portfolio of debt to avoid overparticularly in energy portfolio management and in passing significant reliance on any one market.
This allows it to build relationships with, accounting judgements.
and create competition between, debt providers.
- The Boards policy is to maintain a strong balance sheet and credit - SSE looks to employ, train, develop and retain a diverse and talented rating to support investor, counter-party and market confidence and workforce and provide them with the support they need to deliver to underpin the future development of the Group.
The current average business objectives in a responsible way.
age of SSEs debt is around 10 years.
- SSEs business leaders are expected to undertake regular succession planning reviews.
At a Group level, SSE continues to develop its approach to the management of talent, identifying the current depth across the organisation and looking at strategies to enhance this.
Currently employing around 650 trainees across the business, SSE is an active member of the National Skills Academy for Power, an industry joint training and skills development group which develops common standards and attraction strategies for key energy sector roles.
- SSE has strong governance systems in place which minimise the potential for malicious activity, including independent monitoring of compliance and trading activity, segregation of duties, and robust hiring and performance management processes.
- SSE has a Whistleblowing policy which allows anyone, either internal or external, to report any suspicions they have of any wrongdoing.
- The Audit Committee reviews all key accounting judgements made as part of the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Industry and company transformation Infrastructure failure What is the risk?
The energy sector is undergoing constant technological improvement SSE is reliant on a number of key IT systems to support ongoing and political and regulatory change.
It is important that SSE is able to stay operations and cash flow.
In particular the customer management at the forefront of the industry by identifying emerging trends, developing system, the main trading support systems and real-time network strategies to exploit competitive opportunities and question the status management systems are critical.
A loss of any of these systems could quo, striving for continuous improvement in all areas of activity.
be caused by malicious activity, software or hardware issues including telecoms network connectivity and power supply issues to data centres, In Retail markets, competitive pressure means a failure to keep up with or poor operational performance.
Interruption of service or compromise fast-developing customer needs and new technologies could reduce of these systems for any reason could significantly affect the service SSEs market share and adversely affect service levels to customers.
levels provided to customers, could affect operation of the electricity The advent of smart metering and the changing needs of the customer network, compromise sensitive customer data, divert resource from the require a reorganisation of people, processes and supporting systems.
business as contingency plans are implemented and in some cases may In the Networks business, SSE has proposed significant reductions in affect a material proportion of the Groups cash flow.
overall cost and improvements in the standard of service that customers SSEs electricity network is one of the UKs critical national infrastructure can expect to receive.
To achieve this, it needs to deliver major cost assets, central to the functioning of a modern economy.
Ensuring the efficiencies and improvements in customer service.
Longer term, security of this asset is vital as is its safe, efficient, reliable and compliant any large-scale adoption of smaller-scale distributed local generation operation in order to maintain the confidence of Regulators, politicians, could result in increased pressure on revenues and overheads which customers, investors, and ultimately to protect SSEs licences to operate.
may adversely affect return on investment.
In the GB generation market, it will be critical to understand and adopt How does SSE mitigate it?
the latest, most efficient technologies to maximise competitiveness for - Business Units and IT Service Delivery Teams work together to agree revenue support payments.
An inability to do so could pose a threat to appropriate service level agreements for business critical services.
SSEs capital investment plans and threaten its position in the market as Operational Key Performance Indicators KPIs, are monitored and a significant electricity generator.
any incidents are reported and tracked.
SSEs Enterprise business was created to integrate expertise in - Key technology and infrastructure risks are incorporated into the design contracting, lighting services, utility solutions, telecoms and business of systems and are regularly appraised by IT with risk mitigation plans relationship management, forming a new standalone business-to recommended.
- Technology reviews are undertaken to evaluate software and hardware The projects to deliver these business transformations are large and longevity and the need for any additional resilience planning.
It is vital that SSE successfully delivers these in order to give - SSE conducts regular internal and third party testing of the security of customers the services they require whilst maintaining an efficient cost the IT network and systems.
Failure to do this could result in falling sales and customer - SSE is an active member of a number of security forums including the numbers due to a lack of price competitiveness and a poor reputation Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure.
Where sites are for service.
Poor service standards would in turn impact on revenues designated critical to national infrastructure, SSE has an enhanced level through foregone incentive payments as well as damaging SSEs of security in place, monitored by a dedicated NSI gold registered facility.
relationship with customers, Regulators and other key stakeholders.
- The Group has crisis management and business continuity plans in These projects will draw on resources from across SSE and poor place which are designed for the management of, and recovery from, management of these resources, poor integration or inadequate scoping any interruption events.
of project requirements and benefits could impact on business as usual activities, increase project costs and adversely affect service standards.
- SSE continues to monitor and engage with both industry and the supply chain on developments in key product areas.
- SSEs Networks Division has a dedicated Future Networks team who primarily look at incremental technologies aimed at increasing the reliability and efficiency of network assets.
- SSE has created a Transformation Governance Framework.
Building on the success of its Large Capital Projects Framework, this provides a consistent process and tool-set to manage change within the organisation from first principles to benefit realisation.
- SSE continues to develop the strategy setting process to ensure it considers a wide range of possible directions for the energy sector and the products and services that it provides.
69 Strategic Report Principal risks continued Major projects quality Pension liabilities What is the risk?
SSE continues to deliver its capital investment programme with a number SSE operates defined benefit pension schemes.
At present, in aggregate, of ongoing construction and IT projects nearing completion and its there is an actuarial deficit between the value of the projected liabilities single biggest construction project, the Caithness-Moray high voltage of these schemes and the value of the assets that they hold.
The deficit can be affected by a number of factors including asset volatility, It is critical that these projects are delivered on time and on budget, changes in bond yields, fluctuations in interest rates and inflation, and supported by its Large Capital Projects Governance Framework.
In changes in the life expectancy of scheme members.
addition, SSE needs to ensure that projects are built to a high quality An increase in the deficit may require SSE to increase the amount of cash standard as they generally have an economic life of between 15 and 30 contributions payable to these schemes, resulting in a reduction in the years and in many cases longer.
amount available to satisfy its other obligations or service future growth.
SSE will typically manage the development process and organise the A full update on the position of the schemes is included in note 30 to the delivery of the project by 3rd party contractors, taking a pro-active Annual Report and Accounts.
oversight role during the construction phase.
Whilst this model ensures that the correct skills are leveraged, SSE has - Each defined benefit scheme has a Board of Trustees which acts experienced supplier failures in the past most notably in terms of quality independently of the Group.
Whilst contractual warranties will cover the faulty components, there is often a significant unrecoverable cost associated with these - The schemes each have investment advisors in place who have events in addition to potential impacts to the service SSE can provide developed road-maps with the intention of the schemes becoming to customers.
Added to this, any quality defects may not show up until fully funded i. e. no longer reliant on SSE, within twenty years.
sometime after the construction of an asset resulting in an expensive - SSE has a Pensions Scheme Committee PSC chaired by SSEs Finance and disruptive process of recovery.
The PSC exists to ensure that SSEs approach to the management of its pension scheme obligations is fair How does SSE mitigate it?
The PSC is attended by the Chairmen of the Southern - SSE has a Large Capital Projects Governance framework in place Electric, Scottish Hydro-Electric and Scotia Gas Networks pension which ensures a consistent approach to project development and schemes, as well as senior company appointed trustees and managers delivery and includes a statement of Supplier Quality Requirements.
from SSEs in-house Pensions department.
- Any main contract suppliers are subject to a number of verification processes which include quality assessments.
- SSEs standard practice is to ensure it has the contractual right to inspect any manufacturing facility, be present at all tests and inspections and require the supplier to provide verification of various criteria including the origin and history of materials used and the competency of the workforce.
- In major projects, SSE generally manages the insurance placement by organising owner controlled insurance.
This allows it to have greater control and flexibility over the provisions in place.
SSE also sees the insurance market as an important source of information on the reliability of technology and uses this to inform the design process.
- Once new assets are commissioned, SSEs dedicated Engineering Centre of Excellence monitors the operational performance of assets to provide early visibility of any significant issues.
- Strategic spares, agreed in conjunction with the suppliers, operators and subject matter experts, are in place to mitigate the impact of any quality issues.
Political and regulatory change Safety and environmental management What is the risk?
The markets in which SSE operates are subject to a high degree of SSEs operations are in many cases undertaken in hazardous regulatory and legislative intervention at both domestic and EU level.
It constructs, maintains and operates complex assets This legal framework can change explicitly with the introduction of new including hydro dams, power stations and major gas storage facilities.
or revised legislation, or indirectly due to evolving interpretation and These assets require the storage of a significant volume of water, fuel, legal precedent.
oil and other chemicals, and any uncontrolled release of these could result in injury to staff, contractors or members of the public and damage Changes, either explicit or indirect, can lead to additional reporting to the environment.
requirements, the creation of new products or market structures and can have a significant effect on the profitability of SSEs asset base.
Any such SSE also owns interests in offshore oil and gas exploration and production changes may require amendments to SSEs policies, procedures and assets, the operation of which is undertaken by partners who are proven operating practices and any failure to act and maintain compliance could and approved industry operators.
SSEs ownership interest means it has result in regulatory action, damage to SSEs reputation and impact upon a responsibility to ensure a high safety standard is adopted in order to its operations.
prevent incidents and to protect its interests and liabilities more generally.
The pace of change in, as well as the complexity of, the energy sector is How does SSE mitigate it?
increasing: following the progressive implementation of electricity market - Safety is the Groups number one value and is overseen by the Safety, reform, the GB market is the subject of investigation by the Competition Health and Environment Committee and supported by the Boards and Markets Authority CMA which is due to conclude at the end of 2015 Safety Health and Environment Advisory Committee.
and which could result in further significant changes to the structure - SSEs dedicated Engineering Centre of Excellence reviews and of the market.
develops plans to ensure the integrity of its assets is maintained Energy policy and the legislation which may result from manifesto policies and is independent of the operations teams.
was a key focus in the run up to the 2015 UK General Election.
Whilst it will - SSE undertakes regular hazard studies on key areas of exposure with take some time to become clear, any ongoing ambiguity with regard to the support and oversight provided by the Group Safety, Health and market and its framework makes sustainable long-term strategy planning Environment team.
more challenging and can have an impact on investor confidence.
- For exploration and production assets offshore where SSE is not the In addition to energy specific measures, SSE must also understand and operator, there are a number of assurance measures in place to ensure comply with consumer, financial and health and safety legislation and that the proven and approved operator partners maintain and adopt regulation, amongst others.
high standards for their safe management and operation.
This includes How do we mitigate it?
regular engagement across all disciplines, with an emphasis on safety - SSE has dedicated Corporate Affairs, Regulation, Legal and and technical assurance facilitated by audits and verification using both Compliance departments in place that provide advice to the internal and third party resources.
Wholesale, Networks, Retail and Enterprise businesses on the - The Group has crisis management and business continuity plans in interpretation of political and regulatory changes and take the place, which are designed for the management of, and recovery from, lead in engagement with regulators, politicians, officials and other significant safety or environmental interruption events.
- There is regular engagement with the Board and Executive Committee on political and regulatory developments which may impact on SSEs operations or strategy.
- SSE takes a pro-active role in seeking to address sector-wide issues, as evidenced by the publication of its manifesto, Proposals to deliver affordable, secure and low-carbon energy which set out SSEs recommendations to ensure a sustainable energy market in the future.
- SSE has a dedicated CMA project team, to manage the high volume of information gathering and analysis required to engage with the Authority and support its investigations.
This team draws on expertise from across SSE and will play a key role in ensuring it is able to quickly and effectively integrate the investigations outcome into its operations and strategy.
- SSE actively argues for political action to drive down non-commodity related costs which make up a significant part of the average customer energy bill, including government-sponsored environmental and social policies and its smart meter roll-out costs.
To protect customers, particularly the most vulnerable, SSE believes these policies should be funded through general taxation and related to peoples ability to pay.
By order of the Board Sally Fairbairn Company Secretary 19 May 2015 71
