12 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks The management of risks is delegated through the business with a The Board has established processes that meet the requirements variety of committees responsible for reviewing and managing the of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We recognise that they are designed to manage rather having clear lines of responsibility, documented levels of delegated than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
authority and appropriate operating procedures.
They can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance The role of management is to implement the Boards policies on against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of law and risk and control and provide assurance on compliance with these regulations.
The Groups risk management framework Board Internal Audit Top down Assurance activities The Board has overall responsibility for our system of internal controls and risk Oversight and management policies and is also responsible for reviewing their effectiveness.
leadership of risk management approach Overall responsibility for risk Receives regular risk updates and management and internal controls.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee reviews procedures that relate to risk management processes and financial controls.
The assessment of controls and risk management processes provide a reasonable basis for the Board to make proper judgements on an ongoing basis as to the financial position and prospects of the Group.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on any matters that have arisen from the Audit Committees review of the way risk management and internal control processes have been applied.
This includes insights from its review of the reports of the internal and external auditors.
Supports the Board by reviewing Receives and reviews detailed risk risk management processes and registers.
Risk Committee The Risk Committee operates under the management of the Audit Committee.
It is not a Board committee and is made up of executives only.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and comprises the Group General Counsel, the Group Financial Controller, Director of Business Controls, senior representatives from Deloitte, which acts as internal auditor to the Group, and other key colleagues where necessary.
Identifies new risks for inclusion in the registers.
Takes action, as agreed and documented in the registers.
Reviews operational risks, controls and KPIs on an ongoing basis.
Business Controls Coordinates the risk management process.
Holds meetings with risk owners across the business.
Updates risk registers, assesses risk ratings and documents mitigating controls.
Bottom up Identification, assessment, Businesses mitigation and Local risk registers and risk maps.
escalation of risk SSP Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 13 Internal controls framework the Board considers social, environmental and ethical matters Regional and country management are responsible for in relation to the Groups business and assesses these when implementing internal control and risk management practices reviewing the risks faced by the Group: further information within their own businesses and for ensuring compliance with the regarding environmental and ethical matters is available on Groups policies and procedures.
pages 22 to 25: and During 2015, the Directors reviewed the effectiveness of the the Group has established and rolled out a Code of Conduct, a Groups system of controls, risk management and high-level Whistleblowing Policy and an Anti-bribery Policy, all of which are internal control processes.
These reviews included an assessment refreshed on an ongoing basis.
Training has been provided to the of internal controls, in particular operational and compliance Board and to the senior management covering the obligations controls and their effectiveness, supported by reports from and behaviours of the UK listed company, including those on the internal auditor, as well as the external auditor on matters compliance, insider dealing and market abuse.
Anti-bribery identified in the course of its statutory audit work.
training for all applicable staff levels has been rolled out.
Risk management framework The Audit Committee supports the Board by regularly reviewing The Groups risk management framework is designed to ensure the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
that material business risks throughout the business are identified There were no changes to the Groups internal control over financial and effectively managed on an ongoing basis.
reporting that occurred during the year ended 30 September 2015 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, affect, the Groups reported financial position.
evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
This process was in place throughout 2015 and up to the date of The key elements of the internal control environment in relation to approval of this annual report and meets the requirements of the the financial reporting process are as follows: guidance produced by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Audit Committee has kept under review the effectiveness of the system review of the Groups strategic plans and objectives by the Board of internal control and has reported regularly to the Board.
on an annual basis: The key features of the risk management process are as follows: a detailed budget is produced annually in accordance with our financial processes and reviewed and approved by the Board.
the Group conducts an annual risk assessment and maintains Operational reports are provided to Executive Management on country and regional risk registers.
A top down Group risk a weekly and monthly basis and performance against the budget register is maintained covering risks to the overall Group.
Risks is kept under regular review in accordance with the Groups are evaluated in respect of their potential impact and likelihood.
The Chief Executive reports to the The regional country registers, covering the assessment of risk Board on performance and key issues as they arise: as well as current and future mitigation activities, are discussed by the Executive Committee and key risks are presented to the the Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its Risk Committee and the Audit Committee: duties regarding the Groups financial statements, accounting policies and maintenance of proper internal business, the Board discusses and agrees the principal risks that are operational and financial controls.
The Committee provides included in the annual report: and a direct link between the Board and the internal and external auditors through regular meetings: a risk management action plan is put in place to further enhance the Groups risk management capability.
the Board has formal procedures in place for approval of client contracts, capital investment and acquisition projects, with clearly designated levels of authority, supported by post investment review processes for selected acquisitions and capital expenditure: each country is required to submit a Controls Self-Assessment confirmation to verify its compliance with the controls set over core processes.
This must be signed off by senior management before being submitted to Group: 14 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks continued The following table summarises the principal risks and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed, and the actions taken to mitigate those risks and uncertainties: Risks Mitigating factors Strategic development The Groups strategy involves expanding its business in The Group prioritises its investment in new contracts as developing markets, including Asia Pacific and Eastern part of the ongoing review of its global pipeline, and the Europe & the Middle East.
prioritisation of its capital investment and resources.
The Group may not be successful in winning new The Group has strengthened the management team in Asia contracts on commercially acceptable terms, or may Pacific, USA and Eastern Europe & Middle East, especially win new contracts but fail to mobilise and operate them in business development and operations.
Client relationships The Groups operations are dependent on the terms of The Groups local management structures in all its major airport and railway station concession agreements and geographies allow it to maintain strong relationships with on its ability to retain existing concession contracts and its clients and monitor performance in close partnership win new contracts either from its existing or new clients.
with its clients management teams.
The Group has now The Groups clients may turn to alternative operators, established a contact strategy with key stakeholders at cease operations, terminate contracts with the Group or clients to establish and or maintain ongoing relationships.
increase pricing pressure on the Group.
The Group also has an annual online and interview-based client survey to ensure that any concerns are being addressed.
Furthermore, the Group proactively seeks to invest in, extend and enhance its offers in its key locations, working in conjunction with its clients.
Senior management capability The performance of the Group depends on its ability to The Group continues to review key roles and succession and retention attract, motivate and retain key employees.
The skills plans in country and at the centre.
developed in our business are highly attractive to other The Group carries out an annual talent mapping exercise to companies, who regularly target them for recruitment.
identify candidates for future roles.
The Group may not have sufficient management The Group Remuneration Committee monitors the levels capability at a senior level e. g. country leadership to of remuneration for senior management and seeks to execute the planned operational efficiency programmes ensure that they are designed to attract, retain and and support the growth and development of the motivate the key personnel to run the Group effectively.
Business environment The Group operates in the travel environment where The Group monitors the performance of individual external factors such as the general economic climate, business units and markets regularly.
The executive levels of disposable income, weather, changing management team reviews detailed weekly and monthly demographics and travel patterns could all impact both information covering a range of KPIs, and monitors passenger numbers and consumer spending.
There is progress on key strategic projects.
Specific short and a risk that the Group is unable to or is poorly placed to medium-term actions are taken to address any trading respond to these external events.
performance issues which are monitored on an ongoing basis.
The Group also conducts extensive customer research to understand current levels of customer satisfaction and gathers feedback on changing consumer requirements.
Changing business model Changing client requirements, such as splitting tenders The Group has in place a clear SSP Value Proposition that across two or more providers, favouring local brand it presents to the client to address this risk.
operators or partnering directly with brand owners, may The Group Chief Commercial Officer works closely with adversely affect the Groups business.
the country management teams to enhance and clarify SSPs proposition to its clients.
SSPs contact strategy with key stakeholders of its clients helps to mitigate this risk.
Brand portfolio The Groups success is dependent in large part upon its The Group carries out extensive customer research into ability to maintain its portfolio of proprietary brands as passengers needs and continually analyses market trends well as the brands of its franchisors, and the appeal of in order to enhance its brand and concept portfolio on an those brands for clients and customers.
The loss of any ongoing basis.
significant partner brands, the inability to obtain rights The Group has a dedicated brands team to work with its to new brands over time or the diminution in the appeal partner brands on a day-to-day basis.
of partner brands or the Groups proprietary brands could impair the Groups ability to compete effectively in tender processes and ultimately have a material adverse effect on the Groups business.
SSP Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 15 Risks Mitigating factors Intensified competition Competition intensifies as the Groups competitors The Group has clear internal benchmarking and investment become more sophisticated and direct more appraisal processes to evaluate tender proposals and to resources to the preparation of bids and take a more ensure that the Group is able to make a competitive offer, aggressive position on commercial terms when as well as meet its investment criteria.
This could put pressure on the The Group has developed high-quality business-toGroups profitability and reduce the availability and business marketing collateral to clearly lay out benefits attractiveness of contracts.
of working with SSP, which it shares with the clients to help them better understand SSPs proposition from both quantitative and qualitative aspects.
Expansion in developing The Group operates business directly in a number of The Group has clearly defined authorisation procedures markets developing markets, including Asia Pacific and Eastern for all contract investment to ensure that it is consistent Europe & the Middle East.
Political, economic and with the objectives set by the Board, and fully considers legal systems and conditions in these countries are and evaluates the risks inherent in expansion into new generally less predictable than in countries with more locations and territories.
developed institutional structures, subjecting the Group The Group works with in-house and external advisors to to additional reputational, legal and compliance risks of ensure risks of doing business in developing markets are doing business in such economies.
identified and where possible mitigated before entering those markets.
Risk of working in developing markets is also discussed by the Group Risk Committee and the Group Audit Committee.
Implementation of efficiency The change programmes fail to deliver benefits e. g. The Group has completed detailed evaluation and planning programmes labour efficiency and improvements in wastage and loss.
for its major change programmes.
Specialist expertise has been recruited into the business where required, both at a Group and a country level.
The Group provides central support with regional CEOs and CFOs to facilitate appropriate country actions based on key performance indicators linked to margin management.
Group IT also provides support for project management and implementation using agreed standard business processes and controls.
Cyber threats The Group becomes exposed to cyber threats e. g. The Group continually reviews and updates its business Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards continuity plans for its supply chain, IT disaster recovery PCIDSS, information security.
and its information security policies and practices to ensure that it meets the changing landscape.
Tax strategy Risk that reputation is damaged if customers, clients The Group has a tax management policy that is based on and or suppliers believe that SSP is engaged in Board guidance to adopt a low-risk tax strategy.
aggressive or abusive tax avoidance.
The Group also faces other risks that are operational, financial and regulatory in nature.
These risks are summarised below: Operational Business interruption The travel environment is vulnerable to acts of SSP has business continuity plans in place including liaison terrorism or war, an outbreak of pandemic disease, or with authorities and clients in key locations to ensure that a major and extreme weather event or natural disaster contingency plans are in place.
which could reduce the number of passengers in travel The Group also has comprehensive insurance at both locations.
global and local levels with leading insurers to cover, among other things, property damage, business interruption, public and product liability, employers liability, workers compensation, Directors and Officers liability, motor and other cover as required by local laws and regulations.
This cover is reviewed on an annual basis.
Supply chain The interruption or loss of supply of core category The Group conducts risk assessments of all of its key products from a key supplier to our units may affect our suppliers to identify alternatives and develop contingency ability to trade, whilst quality of supply issues may also plans in the event that any of these key suppliers fail.
impact the Groups reputation and its ability to trade.
The Group has contractual and other relationships with numerous third parties in support of its business activities.
None of these arrangements are individually considered to be essential to the business continuity of the Group, as most of the Groups purchasing is managed at a local level.
16 Strategic report Risk management and principal risks continued Risks Mitigating factors Operational continued Food commodity price inflation A substantial element of the Groups cost base The Group seeks to manage cost inflation through: pricing comprises food and drink products and raw materials.
reviews: menu management to substitute ingredients in As such, the profitability of the Groups contracts will response to any forecast shortages and cost increases: depend on its management of its cost of goods, which and continuing to drive greater purchasing efficiencies also determines its ability to offer competitive pricing through supplier negotiations, rationalisation and to its customers while maintaining sufficient margins.
Technology and infrastructure The failure of key operational IT systems could cause All IT programmes of any significance are authorised systems interruption to the trading of the business.
and overseen by the Chief Information Officer and Advances in technologies or alternative methods of project managed using well-recognised development delivery, including advances in vending technology, methodologies and protocols.
mobile payments, digital marketing and customer loyalty programmes, could have a negative effect on the Groups business if the Group is not able to respond adequately to these technological challenges.
Financial Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to fluctuations in interest rates on The Group maintains a balance of fixed and floating rate its loan balances.
debt so that the risks associated with increases in interest rates are mitigated through the use of interest rate swaps.
Currency risk Although the functional currency of the Group The Groups policy in managing this financial currency risk is Sterling, the Groups operating cash flows are is to use foreign currency denominated borrowings to transacted in a number of different currencies.
The ensure that interest costs arise in currencies which reflect Groups principal currencies of operation are Sterling, the operating cash flows, thereby minimising net cash the Euro, the US Dollar, the Swedish Krona and the flows in foreign currencies.
The Group is subject to currency exchange risk including translation risk and economic risk.
Liquidity and debt covenants The Group needs continuous access to funding in The Group has put in place long-term borrowings in various order to meet its trading obligations and to support currencies to meet its demand for funds.
There is a risk that the Group may be Group has access to a revolving credit facility should unable to obtain the necessary funds when required or such demands arise at short notice.
The Groups treasury that such funds will only be available on unfavourable department maintains an appropriate level of funds and terms.
facilities to meet each years planned funding requirement.
The Groups borrowing facilities include a requirement Compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenant is to comply with certain specified covenants in relation monitored on a monthly basis based on the management to the level of net debt and interest cover.
Sensitivity analysis using various scenarios is these covenants could result in the Groups borrowings applied to forecasts to assess their impact on covenants.
SSP Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 17 Risks Mitigating factors Legal and regulatory Compliance The laws and regulations governing the Groups industry The Group has processes in place to ensure compliance have become increasingly complex across a number with local laws and regulations.
Depending on the nature of jurisdictions and a wide variety of areas, including, of complexity in a country, the Group may obtain external among others, food safety, labour, employment, advice to supplement the in-house legal and compliance immigration, security and safety, health and safety, team.
competition and antitrust, consumer protection The Group has a Code of Conduct and Anti-bribery including data protection, environment, licensing and Anti-corruption Policy in place and anti-bribery requirements and related compliance.
The Group is also training has been rolled out internationally.
The Groups required to comply with applicable data protection laws procedures under the policy include regular reporting by and regulations in many of the jurisdictions in which it the businesses into the Risk Committee.
monitored by Internal Audit and the Risk Committee on As a UK company, the Group is required to comply with an ongoing basis and all alleged breaches of the Code of the provisions of the UK Bribery Act, as well as the local Conduct and policy are investigated.
anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in the territories in which it operates.
Food safety The preparation of food and the maintenance of the The Group has food safety controls and procedures in Groups supply chain require a base level of hygiene, place that are embedded in the Groups operations.
These temperature maintenance and traceability, and expose are monitored by country management teams on a regular the Group to possible food safety liability claims and basis and appropriate action is taken if any issues are issues, such as the risk of food poisoning.
Training sessions are also held in country to ensure compliance with these procedures.
Labour laws and unions Approximately 35% of the Groups employees are The Group works proactively as union contracts subject to collective bargaining agreements, principally and collective bargaining agreements expire or are in France, Germany, Spain, Denmark, Finland, Norway, re-negotiated from time to time to put in place measures Sweden and the United States.
The Group is also to minimise the risk of less favourable terms to the Group.
subject to minimum wage requirements and mandatory health care subsidisation in some of the jurisdictions in which it operates, notably North America, the United Kingdom and China.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 the Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects and the longer-term viability of the Group.
The Directors assessment has been made with reference to the Groups current position and prospects, the Groups strategy, the Boards risk appetite and the Groups principal risks and how these are managed, as detailed in the Strategic report.
In particular, the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the Groups principal risks and those that would threaten the Groups business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
The Directors have determined that three years is an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement, as this is consistent with the Groups Medium Term Plan, which was approved by the Board in July 2015.
The Medium Term Plan, which reflects the strategy and associated principal risks of the various business units across the Group, is underpinned by a detailed financial model which is based on a variety of assumptions about the key drivers of revenue, profit, capital expenditure and cash flow.
The plan is stress tested to provide the Board with assurance as to the Groups viability under a number of scenarios, for example in the event of a severe downturn in trading.
These stress tests include one that uses as its reference point the 2008 09 financial crisis, when global economic conditions adversely impacted both passenger volumes and the spending habits of customers, leading to a rapid and unprecedented drop in like-for-like sales, and one that envisages an external event that has a significant impact on the travel sector for a number of months.
The Medium Term Plan review is supported by regular Board briefings provided by the business unit heads, which consider both the market opportunity and the associated risks and mitigating factors.
These risks are also reviewed as part of the Boards annual risk assessment process.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period to September 2018.
Going concern In addition, based on the detailed cash flow projections discussed above, as well as the stress-tested scenarios considered, the Directors are confident that the Group will be able to operate within its banking covenants and has sufficient liquidity levels for the next 12 months from the date of this report.
Accordingly, the Directors believe it is appropriate to prepare the Annual Report and Accounts on a going concern basis.
See page 54 for further detail.
