St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 36 Strategic Report Risk management Risk management and internal control Our approach to risk management The Board recognises the importance of identifying and At St. Modwen, assessment of risk is a cornerstone of our actively monitoring the full range of financial and non-financial strategy and our risk management framework is fundamental risks facing the business.
Its policy is to have systems in place to its delivery.
Our integrated approach combines a topwhich optimise the Companys ability to manage risk in an down strategic view with a complementary bottom-up effective and appropriate manner.
By regularly reviewing the operational process.
risk appetite of the business, the Board ensures that the risk The top-down approach involves a review of the external exposure remains appropriate at any point in the cycle.
environment in which we operate, to guide an assessment Importantly the Board perceives risk not only as having a of the risks which we are comfortable exposing the business potential negative influence on the business but also as to in pursuit of our strategy.
The bottom-up process involves an opportunity for financial outperformance as we have the identification, management and monitoring of risks in the expertise to take and manage risks that others cannot.
each area of our business to ensure that risk management As the UKs leading regeneration specialist, exposure to risk is is embedded in our everyday operations.
Oversight of this inherent in our business but is subject to an extensive range of process is provided through maintenance of regional risk mitigating controls.
This approach ensures that operational risks are fully considered in determining the risk appetite and corresponding The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining sound risk strategy of the business.
management and internal control systems and for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has carried out a robust assessment of the Our risk management framework principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Its evaluation of these solvency risks is described THE BOARD further in the Going Concern section on page 97 and a Determining and reviewing risk description of how principal risks are managed and mitigated is appetite in light of strategic objectives set out on pages 38 to 41.
Maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems The Audit Committee also monitors the Companys risk Assessing principal risks management and internal control systems.
During the year it considered a detailed report from management which sets out the Groups control environment, the manner in which key business risks are identified, the adequacy of information EXECUTIVE AUDIT systems and control procedures and the manner in which any DIRECTORS COMMITTEE required corrective action is to be taken.
Reviewing Reviewing principal risks principal risks The executive directors are responsible for delivering the Delivering Monitoring the Companys strategy and managing operational risk.
They in Company strategy Company's risk turn place reliance on the Property Board and their teams to and managing management monitor and manage operational risk on an ongoing basis, operational risk and internal as well as identifying emerging risks.
Risk registers, which control systems exist at both a Group and regional level, provide a framework for all employees to contribute to delivering our strategy by recognising their shared responsibility for the effective PROPERTY INTERNAL management of risk.
BOARD AUDIT The work of the internal audit function is focused on the Monitoring Reviewing controls that mitigate the principal risks faced by the Group.
and managing internal controls operational risk Key internal controls are reviewed by internal audit as part of its Reporting to the annual audit plan and findings are reported to and considered Identifying Audit Committee emerging risks by the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee ReportPages 58 to 65 Going concernPage 97 EMPLOYEES Sharing responsibility for effective management of risk Contributing to risk registers at both a Group and regional level Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 37 245 4699 100164 165176 Details of the principal risks which could prevent the internal control, have been in place throughout that period achievement of our strategic objectives and may have and up to the date of approval of this report.
The Board also amaterial impact on our business are set out on pages confirms that it has not identified, nor been advised of, a failing 38to41.
This year we recognise the increasing risks or weakness which it has determined to be significant.
associatedwith economic uncertainty, upcoming political St. Modwens risk management and internal control systems events such as the UK referendum on EU membership are designed to identify, manage and, where practicable, andcyber-crime.
reduce and mitigate the effect of the risk of failure to achieve The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups business objectives.
They are not designed to eliminate such systems of internal control and risk management during the risk and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance period covered by this Annual Report.
It confirms that the against material misstatement or loss.
processes described above, which accord with guidance on Key features of St. Modwens risk management and internal control systems: an organisational structure with clear segregation of duties, recent formation of a capital projects committee: control and authority: a treasury policy: a robust system of financial reporting, budgeting and a formal schedule of matters, including major investment re-forecasting processes: and development decisions and strategic matters, that are monthly operational reviews between the Chief Executive reserved for Board approval: and regional directors: a suite of policies and procedures in respect of anti-bribery comprehensive monthly reporting to the Board through and corruption, fraud prevention and IT security: development progress reviews, management accounts an independently operated whistleblowing facility to enable and a comparison of committed expenditure against employees to raise concerns on a confidential basis, with available facilities: investigation overseen by the Audit Committee: and clearly defined procedures for the authorisation of capital other control measures outlined elsewhere in this Annual expenditure, acquisitions and sales of development and Report, including legal and regulatory compliance and investment properties, construction activity, and other health and safety.
contracts and commitments: Viability statement The directors have assessed the viability of the Company The most relevant potential impact of these risks on viability over the period to November 2018, being the first three was considered to be: years of the most recent strategy process as this timeframe market economic changes such as higher interest rates, gives more certainty over the forecasting assumptions reduced demand for land new properties, reduced used.
The strategy process is conducted at Group level and availability of credit and declining investment yields reviewed each year by the Board with key influencers within restricting business development and causing valuation falls: the business having ownership of the outcomes from the process.
Once approved by the Board, the plan provides significant political events which may delay or impact the basis for setting all detailed financial budgets and investment decisions and reduce returns: and strategic actions that are subsequently used by the Board to a reduction in the availability of funding causing a lack of monitor performance.
liquidity that impacts borrowing capacity and reduces the The strategy process considers the Group's cash flows saleability of assets.
including the normal level of capital recycling expected to On the basis of this and other matters considered and occur, funding requirements and other key financial ratios reviewed by the Board during the year, the Board has over the period, as well as the headroom in the financial reasonable expectations that the Company will be able to covenants contained in its various loan agreements.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due In making their assessment the directors assessed the over the periods used for the assessment.
In doing so, it is potential impacts, in severe but plausible scenarios, of the recognised that such future assessments are subject to a principal risks set out on pages 38 to 41 together with the level of uncertainty that increases with time and, therefore, likely degree of effectiveness of mitigating actions reasonably future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted expected to be available to the Company.
