St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 38 Strategic Report Our principal risks Strategic objective: Secure excellent returns.. Movement in Risk and potential impact Mitigation Commentary theyear Market economic changes such as higher interest rates, Regional spread and portfolio diversity mitigates sector orlocationWe choose to operate only in the UK, which is subject to relatively low risk and low returns from a stable and reduced demand for land new properties, reduced availability specific risks.
mature, albeit cyclical, economy and property market.
By involvement with all sectors of that economy and of credit and declining investment yields restrict business property market, we are as diversified as possible, without venturing overseas.
Our land bank of 6,000 acres Active portfolio management achieves a better than market utilisation development and cause valuation falls.
Significant upcoming provides us with the flexibility to move with market demands and pursue those opportunities that generate the of assets.
political events which delay and or impact investment greatest value at any one time.
The outcome of the UK referendum on EU membership has the potential to Hedging policy reduces interest rate risk.
impact the appeal and performance of investment in the UK in general.
Investment and financing strategy is determined against abackdrop of potential outcomes of political events.
Over the course of the last year, the continuing economic problems within the Eurozone and in China and the emerging markets mean that the overall market position continues to represent a risk.
Changes to local and national planning processes Use of high-quality professional advisors.
Our daily exposure to all aspects of the planning process, and internal procedures for sharing best practice, adversely impact our strategy by limiting our ability to ensure we remain abreast of most developments.
Furthermore, we continue our efforts to influence public Active involvement in public consultation.
secureviable permissions and or by removing our policy debate.
Although the ever changing nature of planning legislation means that future rules are uncertain, Constant monitoring of all aspects of the planning process by competitiveadvantage.
our expertise should enable us to prosper relative to our competitors, irrespective of the planning environment.
Contact with lobbying both central and local Government.
Inadequate due diligence on major new schemes, Acquisitions, development and ultimate disposals are reviewed and Our programme for the year has been completed on time and within budget.
Our contractor selection and programme management, construction delivery and or financially appraised in detail, with clearly defined authority limits.
management processes are rigorous and we continue to favour financially stable and robust contractors.
procurement leads to unforeseen exposures, quality issues Strong internal construction management team.
and or cost overruns causing customer dissatisfaction and or Clearly defined formal tender process that evaluates qualitative and financial loss.
quantitative factors in bid assessment.
Use and close supervision of a preferred supply chain of high-quality trusted suppliers and professionals.
Financial collapse of, or dispute with, a key joint venture Monthly review of performance to identify if senior management Our key partners are Persimmon PLC, VINCI plc and Salhia Real Estate K. S. C. of Kuwait.
These are financially partner leads to financial loss.
strong partners with good prospects and considerable financial resources.
We maintain detailed and ongoing dialogue with all our joint venture partners.
Flexible but legally secure contracts with partners.
Fewer but financially strong partners.
Strategic objective:... through a focus on long-term significant added value Movement in Risk and potential impact Mitigation Commentary theyear Failure to manage long-term environmental issues relating Use of high-quality external advisors.
We are willing to accept a degree of environmental risk, enabling higher returns to be made.
The inherent risks to brownfield and contaminated sites and human health are passed on or minimised where possible but cannot be eliminated, although the residual risks have been Highly qualified, experienced staff and proven track record as the UKs issues leads to a major environmental incident, resulting in acceptably low in recent years.
financial and or reputational damage.
Risk assessments conducted as part of due diligence process, with contamination remediated following acquisition and cost plans allowing for unforeseen remediation costs.
Full warranties from professional consultants and remediation contractors.
Defined business processes to proactively manage issues.
Annual independent audit of environmental risk.
Reputation managed by a core team of skilled PR professionals.
Failure to recruit, develop and retain staff with the Succession planning monitored at Board level and below.
Staff turnover remains low and the proportion of management with more than three years service is at 76%.
necessary skills resulting in significant disruption loss of Ascompetition to attract the best people increases, we continue to adapt our recruitment strategy to source the Targeted recruitment with competitive, performance-driven intellectual property.
skills that will support the Companys long-term business objectives.
remuneration packages to secure highly-skilled and motivated employees.
Leadership and management development plans in place.
Key information is documented to safeguard knowledge.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 39 245 4699 100164 165176 Key: movement in the year Exposure increased Exposure reduced No significant change Strategic objective: Secure excellent returns.. Movement in Risk and potential impact Mitigation Commentary theyear Market economic changes such as higher interest rates, Regional spread and portfolio diversity mitigates sector orlocationWe choose to operate only in the UK, which is subject to relatively low risk and low returns from a stable and reduced demand for land new properties, reduced availability specific risks.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 40 Strategic Report Our principal risks continued Strategic objective:... while protecting our assets Movement in Risk and potential impact Mitigation Commentary theyear Availability of funding reduces, causing a lack of liquidity that Recurring income from rents provides funding for a large percentage Our geared financial structure means that there are inevitable risks attached to the availability of funding and the impacts borrowing capacity and reduces the saleability of of overhead and interest costs.
management of fluctuations in our cash flows.
Our prudent approach to forward commitments, speculative assets.
Unforeseen significant changes to cash flow development and asset disposals has enabled us to optimise operational cash flows and offset the impact of Strong relationships with key banks: all corporate debt refinanced until requirements e. g. operating cost increases, pension fund fluctuating market conditions.
The success of our first retail bond October 2012, a share placing February at least 2018. shortfall which limit the ability of the business to meet its 2013 and a convertible bond February 2014 has further diversified our debt financing profile by providing Finance successfully raised through alternative, unsecured means ongoing commitments.
retail bond, equity placing and convertible bond.
Financial headroom maintained to provide flexibility and scenario modelling tools employed to evaluate the likelihood of a breach of financing covenant limits.
Regular and detailed cash flow forecasting enables monitoring of performance and management of future cash flows.
Failure to anticipate market changes through poor market Regional offices in touch with their local market.
The excellent reputation and financial capacity of the Company has enabled us to continue to win schemes and intelligence leads to the selection of inappropriate and, grow the property portfolio in an improving but still challenging market and economy.
In this environment, with a Dedicated central resource supporting regional teams.
reduced number of active competitors, we expect to be able to continue to source attractive acquisitions.
Flexible and innovative approach to acquisitions and schemes in order to adapt to market changes.
Acquisitions, development and ultimate disposals are reviewed and financially appraised in detail, with clearly defined authority limits.
Failure to identify a pipeline of future residential sites or Team of professionals with residential experience and expertise.
Whilst the planning environment remains challenging and subject to inevitable delays, our scale and expertise reduced availability of mortgage finance adversely impacts the enables us to navigate the process with considerable success.
Demand for new homes remains strong, Extensive land bank with a continuing stream of planning applications.
performance of our residential business.
supported by the NPPFs housing supply requirements and the availability of mortgage finance due at least in Flexible approach to mortgage financing e. g. shared equity schemes.
part to the Governments Help to Buy scheme.
Furthermore, the geographic spread of our business means we Use of joint venture partners with residential expertise are not overly exposed to any one region.
Failure to manage major projects effectively e. g. civil Most of our big projects can be broken down into smaller, more We use our knowledge and expertise in remediation, planning, asset development and construction to manage engineering and earth moving issues leads to higher costs manageable projects e. g. Longbridge.
all of our development activity, including our major projects.
Our existing skill base enables us to oversee each reduced margins.
stage of the development process, progressing activities to completion before subsequent stages are Significant in-house expertise.
Major projects are also subject to detailed monitoring by executive management, and progress High level of pre-sale agreements.
reported to the Board at each Board meeting.
Safety, health and environment SHE culture leads to a Use of high-quality external SHE advisors.
Health and safety continues to be a high priority.
The assessment of environmental costs and the major incident e. g. serious injury to, or death of, an employee, subsequentoptimising of remediation solutions is an integral part of our acquisition and post-acquisition Annual cycle of SHE audits.
client, contractor or member of the public or non-compliance processes.
We seek to minimise or pass on any such environmental risks, and believe that the residual risk SHE Steering Group chaired by the Group Construction Director.
with legislation, resulting in financial penalties and or remains acceptably low.
Inother social and ethical areas, our operations are underpinned by a simple but Regular Board reporting.
rigorous set of operating commitments.
Programme of employee training specific to roles and responsibilities.
Inadequate security or business continuity and disaster Asset risk assessments e. g. security, environmental, health and safety.
Whilst our exposure to the loss of intellectual property is relatively low, we are mindful of the increasing recovery planning for operations and IT, leading to threattocorporate security from cyber-crime.
As the profile of cyber security continues to grow, our risk Documented disaster recovery and crisis management plans in place significant business disruption, financial intellectual property management approach has adapted to further increase preventative security and enhance the robustness across the business.
loss and or reputational damage in the event of an accident, ofexisting procedures.
Dedicated IT team monitors security and performance of all act of terrorism or cyber-crime.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 41 245 4699 100164 165176 Key: movement in the year Exposure increased Exposure reduced No significant change Strategic objective:... while protecting our assets Movement in Risk and potential impact Mitigation Commentary theyear Availability of funding reduces, causing a lack of liquidity that Recurring income from rents provides funding for a large percentage Our geared financial structure means that there are inevitable risks attached to the availability of funding and the impacts borrowing capacity and reduces the saleability of of overhead and interest costs.
