SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we Manage our Risks.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, we understand the need for a robust system of internal control and risk management.
Following a review of our risks, we have further assessed our key risks and uncertainties which are reviewed by the Executive Committee and Board twice a year.
We consider the following matters to be the principal risks and uncertainties affecting SuperGroup.
These may not be exhaustive and there might be additional unknown risks that could have an adverse effect on the business.
Risk Potential impact Mitigation Change Fashion and design trends may not We may experience inventory Our founders are intrinsic to the brand and have a strong understanding of and connection to the be responded to in a timely manner.
shortages or excesses that could market and our customers.
This knowledge combined with an extensive programme of customer This could become more significant result in lower margins, lost revenue research over the past 12 months has provided a clear understanding of our customers.
This has for us as womenswear becomes a or customer goodwill.
enabled focused range planning and product development.
The introduction of category management larger proportion of our sales.
disciplines for SS16 will further embed this approach.
We continue to develop new product ranges such as the recent Rugby and Superdry Snow launches.
The upcoming collaboration with Idris Elba is expected to further broaden and strengthen customer appeal.
We have made further investment in strengthening the design team in both numbers and experience.
Failure to achieve long-term Failure to achieve planned growth The four pillar growth strategy presented in March 2015 sets out how we will create a global lifestyle business growth as a result of targets could significantly impact brand.
These are: either the lack of an effective on investor sentiment.
Embed the Superdry brand to further broaden and strengthen the brands appeal: strategy or the failure to successfully implement the Enable the business to deliver long-term growth through continued investment in people, strategy.
processes and systems: Extend the Superdry product range to capture significant growth opportunities: and Execute global growth opportunities, in new markets and online.
We have strengthened our management team during the year and, combined with the experience and knowledge of our founders, our leadership team now has a good mix of capabilities and experience.
Gaps in the executive team have been identified and are being filled with the planned appointments of a Global Retail Director and a Transformation Director who will start in September 2015.
We continue to be strongly cash generative and able to fund our ongoing investment programme.
Failure to deliver on our business Failure to improve the performance A combined team of UK and US colleagues will bring a balance of our global strengths with local aspirations in North America.
of our North American business knowledge of existing operations and the North American market.
could result in financial losses NEW We have established clear plans to integrate and improve the existing Retail and Wholesale business.
and or brand damage, which Key focus areas include improving operational efficiency, selling the full range of Superdry products to could undermine the strategy of North American customers and enhancing the overall customer experience, online and in store.
co. uk 46 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Report.
Risk Potential impact Mitigation Change Failure to deliver business critical Failure to deliver key projects could We continue to focus on the delivery of key projects to provide the business with the core Financial Financial projects.
impact on the effectiveness and infrastructure to support future growth.
Highlights of the past 12 months include the successful Statements.
efficiency of business operations or implementation of the new finance system and the completion of the transition of the European Retail delay growth opportunities.
business into a central merchandising system.
Cross-functional projects in the pipeline will be delivered under the guidance of a new central programme team providing a more consistent approach to embedding changes across the organisation.
The standardised project methodology currently being deployed provides a framework for improved project delivery, visibility and management of project risks and issues.
This change programme will continue with ongoing systems investments and, in FY17, establishing a new European distribution centre.
Loss of key individuals or the Lack of appropriately skilled and Euan Sutherlands appointment as Chief Executive Officer and Julian Dunkertons move to the newly inability to attract and retain talent.
experienced resource could result created role of Founder and Product and Brand Director provide the necessary leadership skills in a delay in achieving the Groups to drive our global strategic goals.
Our executive team has undergone significant change in FY15.
With the recruitment that has already taken place or is in progress, we have a strong and highly experienced team in place.
Our ongoing talent review and succession planning process is providing the executive team with the necessary data and tools to understand the future skills requirements of the business.
This process is also helping to ensure that our employees benefit from rewarding careers.
The approach we have taken to increasing our direct recruitment, backed up by a strong recruitment website, has successfully supported recruitment at all levels across the Group.
Economic and financial conditions Our results can be affected by Our diversified business model encompassing Retail including e-commerce and Wholesale along result in challenging trading the impact of economic conditions with our increasing global footprint, provides significant counter-economic protection.
on consumer confidence and The implementation of new IT systems and the integration of European Retail operations have buying habits.
enabled a deeper understanding of the performance of our business.
Regular reviews through customer research and a review of competitor pricing, together with forecasting disciplines, are in place to assess current market conditions and to ensure that any issues are dealt with in a timely manner.
Our Wholesale team manages closely credit terms and use of insurance and bank guarantees with their trading partners to balance their ability to purchase goods with managing the risk of bad debts.
Our treasury function monitors the stability of financial institutions that hold our deposits.
Investments are spread over a number of institutions to mitigate this risk and ensure competitive terms.
The policy governing this is laid out in note 31 of this report.
co. uk 47 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we Manage our Risks.
Risk Potential impact Mitigation Change Failure to ensure that working There is a potential for SuperGroup Ethical trading matters are managed by our Ethical Trading Manager, reporting directly to the Head of conditions in the supply base are in to suffer negative customer and Sourcing, and we are a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative.
line with our ethical trading policy.
We engage with our suppliers and expect them to operate in accordance with our Code of Practice.
We assess the status of operating practices through a schedule of audits and visits and, where necessary, work with suppliers on improvement plans.
Key infrastructure or IT systems Should any of our IT facilities The IT replacement programme has continued to deliver systems with improved reliability and may be unavailable due to be unavailable for an extended availability.
During the past 12 months, the store point of sale POS and finance systems have been operational problems or a major period, our ability to trade would replaced and major upgrades have been carried out on both the e-commerce platform and core IT incident.
The overall IT legacy replacement programme will continue through FY16 with ongoing impacted the peak trading period investment in new capabilities beyond this date.
from November to January, then Our business continuity planning and disaster recovery capabilities have been enhanced and we the impact on earnings would be expect these to be finalised and tested in FY16.
Brand damage may occur due to The strength of the Superdry brand A sustained programme of brand insight analysis over the past 12 months has shown that the over-exposure of the Superdry is fundamental to the success of Superdry brand continues to have strong appeal in the UK and mainland European markets with brand or the existence of our business.
There is a risk that positive indications in the US.
our brand may become overOur in-house brand protection team works closely with third party advisers and customs authorities exposed or damaged by the throughout the world to monitor the production and sale of counterfeit product and, where identified, existence of counterfeit products remove it whether it be online or in the marketplace using all remedies available, including take down with inferior quality and or design.
We also monitor our supply chain to limit the risk of any supplier selling unauthorised product directly into the market.
co. uk 48 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Report.
Risk Potential impact Mitigation Change Failure to comply with legal and Failure to comply with legal Our tax and in-house legal functions work closely with the business to identify and mitigate legal and Financial Financial regulatory frameworks.
obligations or regulatory regulatory risks using both internal resources and external advisers where either specialist or local Statements.
frameworks in the diverse markets advice is needed.
in which we operate could result in financial penalties, the inability to enforce contracts and or reputational damage.
We increasingly transmit data A failure to protect data adequately We continue to invest in new IT systems and infrastructure to enhance our security profile.
electronically, creating a growing could lead to prosecution The replacement of the store POS system completed in early 2015 has provided a significant step security risk.
There is also a risk and reputational damage to towards compliance with Payment Card Industry standards.
Changes to the compliance standard in of the loss of controlled data by SuperGroup.
late 2014 require our external systems providers to re-validate their systems against the standard.
a result, we anticipate being compliant in the third quarter of 2015.
We have recently reviewed and strengthened our global data protection training programme.
Our legal team works closely with the operational teams particularly Human Resources and IT to ensure that the requirements of data protection legislation are understood and built into operational processes.
Risk of significant changes in Our financial results could be We maintain constant management oversight, including Board review, of foreign exchange exposure currency exchange rates.
impacted by changes in and opportunities.
We use forward foreign exchange contracts to provide planning certainty in the major currencies in which we trade and, therefore, mitigate currency translation exposure.
This policy is set out in note 31 of this report.
Key: Increasing Stable Reducing NEW New risk www.
co. uk 49 49 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our Governance.
Good corporate governance is good business.
Our governance framework supports and enables effective execution of our strategy together with high quality and timely decision making.
Rigorous analysis, robust challenge, close monitoring of performance, and an appropriate system of checks and balances are combined with the entrepreneurial and creative culture of the Company.
As SuperGroup has grown and developed we have evolved and improved the governance framework in line with the maturity of the Company.
Peter Bamford Chairman 8 July 2015 www.
