Resources and relationships Sustainability at the heart of our business Our approach Whilst financial results remain an Sustainability highlights Our people important measure of success, to be a Lost time accident rate best ever truly successful global business, we are performance and now below UK We have completed our working hard to continually improve our safety, health and environment SHE Chemical Industries Association Synthomer Core Values roll out performance and how we can positively average levels and their integration into our impact our employees and the Success in our programme of communities in which we operate.
energy efficiency work in our Malaysian businesses has helped The Board, Chief Executive and Group Executive Committee are fully committed to reduce overall energy levels Safety, health and to improving our SHE performance and per tonne of production engaging and involving all our employees the environment Focus on process safety and in these improvement programmes.
how it is monitored Thethree long term goals that underpin We have continued to focus all our SHE programmes are: on reducing accident rates in 1.
T o minimise any environmental burden the past year.
However, whilst created by our activities: we have reduced ourover 2.
To have no accidents or incidents: and three day accident rates we 3.
To have no adverse impact on the health of those who work in, or live have, disappointingly, seen near our operations, nor on the health anincrease in our total of those who use our products.
recordable accident rate in Key practices and programmes Europe, Middle East and The Group have SHE management Africa.
We are committed to practices and systems throughout the Group with the aim of continuously achieving azero accident rate.
Some ofthekey practices and systems are: Community Key measures, SHE performance indicators and SHE audit results are reported to the Board, the Group We are working within all our Executive and to the regional management communities as a valued meetings on a monthly basis.
The Group Core Values programme, introduced in 2014 has SHE performance as the foundation for all the other values.
Our key SHE actions for 2015 and our main areas of focus for 2016 are shown on the table on page 21.
20 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Key SHE programmes 2015 SHE key actions 2016 SHE key focus Groups Safety, Health and Review and streamlining of standards to Continuation of standards review.
Environment Management System improve clarity and focus.
SHEMS standards and policies Group SHE audits This year, the audit process was revised Continued roll-out of new audit process to focus on process safety risks, coupled and the Group will carry out additional to faster feedback and agreement on assurance checks on sites internal actions that can deliver improvement.
Sites have been given additional responsibility to carry out their own internal reviews in addition to the Group audits.
The Group Accident and Incident During 2015 improved methods of Streamlined and focused incident Management System AIMS analysis were identified to ensure that reporting will be implemented.
theright information is gathered for effective learning and prevention.
SHE training and communication A programme of one to one and small Consolidation of process safety and group discussions on SHE issues and line of fire work.
inspections and engineering performance has been carried out across the Group: First line manager competence Line of fire awareness meetings have assurance framework and programme been held for all staff to increase will be developed in 2016. awareness of how actions can impact their own safety and the safety of others.
Process safety training was undertaken across all the plants.
Alignment of staff incentives The Group 2016 bonus scheme has been changed to better reflect the importance of safety to our business and emphasize how all employees can influence safety performance.
The Group publishes an annual Corporate Social Responsibility CSR report which is available online.
Itdiscusses awider range of safety, health and environmental measures ofour performance as well as other CSRmeasures and activities.
com to find the latest report Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 21 Resources and relationships continued Our people Our business is only as good as our on training and development.
There is a strong focus on people, so we must ensure that we continued to roll out across many parts meeting and exceeding the needs of have the right people with the right ofthe Group, both in Europe and Asia, our customers with active performance skills, in the right roles.
In 2015, we operator, maintenance and supervisory management objectives and local continued to develop our human training based on the European measures supporting this.
The resources strategy with a focus of acclaimed Cogent Gold Standard company is further aligning our staff increasing the involvement and programme.
In the UK, where the training focus and performance through our contribution of our employees across has already been implemented, it has new 2016 revised bonus programme the globe.
This included improving substantially expanded abilities in which has local site key performance our recruitment processes and business improvement, technical measures at its heart.
developing our organisational competence, compliance and life skills.
effectiveness through succession Diversity planning, performance management We have seen our focus on staff wellness, Male Female Total and staff development.
Synthomer health and absence management values its ethnic diversity and has many programmes, in 2015, at selected sites in Board 8 1 9 policies that nurture and develop this.
Europe help our employee attendance rates.
Senior management 19 3 22 We have an active policy to develop A large majority of our workforce has Employees 1,655 383 2,038 the capability in the countries where strong technical capability whether in we operate and increase the focus operations, R&D or our commercial Employees in emerging markets Total Group employees Employees working in R&D 38% 2,038 120 Case study Our commitment to apprenticeprogrammes.
In Germany, Synthomer has been supporting the apprenticeship scheme formany years and has increased the rateof apprentices over recent years.
In2015, we employed 20 apprentices forvocations such as Plant Chemists, Energy Facility Electricians, Plant Technician and Laboratory Chemists.
As an example of the success of the programme, one of our apprentices whofinished his training in 2015 as a Laboratory Chemist will now continue towork in our Operational Support Lab team in Marl, Germany.
In addition, with the support of Synthomer, he will continue his education and work on attaining his Chemical Laboratory Technician qualification.
22 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Commitment to safety, health and environmental SHE performance Safety, health and accident involving all site managers to identify Over Three Day Lost Time Accident performance underlying and common issues, Frequency Rates The Groups reportable lost time discuss safety culture, and agree 1.4 accident rate improved in 2015 to give corrective action plans for 2016 1.2 Synthomer its best ever performance.
1.0 There were eight over three day accidents during the year and as a Employee health continued to be a 0.8 consequence the frequency rate has focus during 2015, building on the 0.6 dropped to 0.16 per 100,000 hours work in 2014 using the CIA 0.4 worked.
This rate is more than five Sustainable Health Metrics Tool to 0.2 times better than we achieved in 2000 provide a platform for the 0.0 and better than the average for the UK management review of occupational 00 03 06 09 12 15 Chemical Industries Association CIA health.
Work in this area resulted in Actual Rate UK CIA rate member companies.
the Group being shortlisted for the Rate per 100,000 hours worked 2015 CIA Health Leadership Award.
On a broader basis we also monitor and track a recordable accident rate The Group had a number of safety for accidents involving more than first incidents which did not cause injury aid treatment.
Regrettably but which were either reportable to performance here worsened during the local regulatory authorities, or All Recordable Accident 2015, with our frequency rate for would have been reportable under FrequencyRates 2015 of 0.55 per 100,000 hours the newly developed International 1.4 worked, a 7% increase over 2014.
Council of Chemical Associations 1.2 ICCA process safety event reporting In line with our commitment to a zero metric.
None of these incidents 1.0 accident target, 2015 saw a range of caused injury, significant plant 0.8 activities undertaken to reverse this damage or detectable environmental 0.6 trend.
This included roll-out of Line damage.
They are discussed in our 0.4 of Fire training for all employees to full CSR report.
0.2 build awareness and share lessons learned, and a three day workshop 0.0 11 12 13 14 15 Rate per 100,000 hours worked Total Net Primary Energy Use Giga Joules per production tonne 6.0 5.0 4.0 3.0 2.0 1.0 0.0 05 07 09 11 13 15 Actual Rate Target base 2005 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 23
