Principal risks and uncertainties Given the scale and growth of our business, the Board of Directors recognises that the Risk Assessment Review scope and potential impact of our key business and strategic risks are subject to Identify Risk Committees constant change.
As a result the Board has implemented the necessary framework to ensure that it has sufficient oversight of the Assess Audit Committee Senior Executive Board Groups key and emerging risks.
The Board also has the opportunity to regularly review the adequacy and effectiveness of our Mitigating actions PLC Board mitigating controls and strategies.
During the year the Board has also considered owning and managing risks within their area Principal risks and uncertainties the nature and level of risk that it is prepared of responsibility.
With the risk management Our risk management strategy seeks to toaccept in order to deliver our business framework in place the focus is now turning address the risks and opportunities associated strategies and has reviewed our internal tocontinuous review and updating of principal with the Groups strategic plan.
risks, mapping of regional and functional risks thecontinuous review and enhancement Risk management at by principal risk category, and identifying oftheGroups risk management systems, a where and why risk scores have changed SynergyHealthplc framework setting out how the Group identifies, overtime.
Health, safety and risk management are responds and reports on risk performance has recognised as being core elements of Synergy been implemented.
This strategy translates The regional and functional risk registers are Healths operations.
Existing and future theownership of risks, and performance monitored and reviewed by the SEB to ensure customers expect us to achieve and deliver measurement, into clear operational objectives.
effective ongoing identification, assessment, safety excellence.
Our safety performance mitigation and reporting of risks to the Group.
Following the development and and culture, therefore, ensures our success.
implementation of the major risk review the The principal risks to achieving our strategic Risk management supports the Groups vision regional and functional risk groups and aims are set out below.
to build a lasting reputation and our core registers were established.
Each service line, values by: region and Group function is responsible for Building and protecting the Groups reputation by championing a responsible approach to business: The risk management strategy Achieving brand and business resilience supported by effective risk management: isaligned with the corporate Developing the culture and capability across the Group to manage changing risks and opportunities: and strategy and supports each Ensuring the safety and wellbeing of employees and others who could be service line and region to identify affected by our business activities.
The Board has the ultimate ownership of risk management with responsibilities cascaded into the organisation through the regional and functional leadership teams.
The risk management strategy is aligned withthe corporate strategy and supports eachservice line and region to identify and manage its own risks.
This is accomplished by embedding risk management into the culture of the Group and translating risk management into operational ownership, defining clear responsibilities and measuring risk management performance.
Risk management reports regularly to the plc Board, Senior Executive Board SEB and Audit Committee.
22 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key risk and uncertainty Mitigation Expanding the business internationally Uncertainty surrounding the resilience of Despite the ongoing challenges we are committed to investing in Business theglobal economy continues to present our mature and emerging markets to maintain and increase market retention and challenging trading conditions.
Cost cutting in share to ensure market leadership.
expansion healthcare sectors and the ongoing economic Where there are opportunities to expand and innovate we will do constraints continue to provide uncertainties sobased on a full understanding of the risks and opportunities.
but also opportunities for the Group.
Cost leadership, service levels and quality continue to be key differentiators in the healthcare market and the Group continues toattract and retain business.
As the Group has continued to grow The risks associated with potential acquisitions are mitigated Acquisition risks throughacquisition, the risk of inheriting through extensive due diligence checks to ensure that opportunities legacy liabilities and debts remains a key for strategic growth are balanced against financial risks.
Existing exposure includes is proactively managing existing workers compensation claims.
workers compensation liabilities attached Integration planning following acquisition has been reviewed and tothe former SRI business and legacy enhanced in order to identify and address safety issues.
employee compensation claims for noise induced hearing loss.
We work closely with incumbent and previous insurers to ensure that claims and other liabilities are fully disclosed, managed Similarly the possibility of being subject andreviewed.
toacquisition is also more foreseeable and reinforces the need for good governance and effective risk management to control claims and other liabilities.
The Group operates across a number of Mitigation depends on ensuring that the regions have Compliance territories with different laws and codes.
In ownershipoflocal compliance supported by risk management addition regulation, particularly relating to the oversight toensure that legislative changes are highlighted environment, safety and corporate governance, andeffectively implemented.
is subject to change with increasingly higher The creation of the regional Risk Manager roles has further levels of compliance required.
enhanced our ability to monitor and effectively respond to Keeping pace with, and understanding, changingcompliance requirements.
thechanging requirements of local The Groups aim is to ensure that our policies and standard legislationacross the regions is essential operating procedures set best practice thereby ensuring toachieving compliance.
Focusing on high value-added services Information technology is an integral part of Mitigation has been achieved through the strengthening of IT IT infrastructure Synergys business and operational systems.
resource and the implementation of projects to address risks associated with legacy systems.
The failure of key IT systems would have significant impacts on business performance.
The key aim of these projects has been to ensure that critical The increasing threat of cyber-attack and the systems are fully supported, are sustainable and provide scalability vulnerabilities of the Cloud in this respect are as the business continues to grow.
The projects also offer added included in the Groups major risk review.
value through improving consistency and cost leadership.
IT systems and procedures are in place to support business continuity through the secure backing up of data and ensuring information security.
The Group provides services to highly Mitigation of these risks is dependent on having clearly established Quality standards regulated markets which operate to a quality control processes in place together with ongoing review and compliance rangeof internationally recognised quality procedures for implementing corrective actions where issues or standards.
Our business also relies on improvements are identified.
maintaining the highest level of quality The Group has a well-developed quality assurance structure.
The assurance to protect patient safety.
Group adopts an approach of continuous improvement of its quality Failing to meet quality standards would assurance procedures.
haveasignificant impact on our business andreputation.
23 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Key risk and uncertainty Mitigation Deriving competitive differentiation through our people The Group has built its reputation on Mitigating this risk through providing an attractive and stimulating Loss of providing expertise across a range of working environment with opportunities for individuals to develop knowledge and specialist outsourced services.
The Group ensures that the Group is well placed to continue to grow expertise differentiates itself by offering exceptional successfully in both existing and new markets.
support to its customers and this demands The Group has well-established graduate, leadership and personal that the Group attracts and retains the development programmes and has implemented a global employee highest-calibre people across its businesses.
Although employee turnover is very low the impact of losing knowledge and experience from the Group is still considered sufficient for this to remain a key risk.
The Group Chief Executive Officer and other Whilst it is difficult to fully mitigate the consequences of losing Loss of key key individuals are integral to the business.
leaders and others who might be viewed by stakeholders as being person The loss of any of these key people could essential to the business, the Group aims to reduce the potential impact on shareholder value and the future impact through succession planning and maintaining a strong success of the business.
Cost leadership The global nature of the Group and its Mitigation is primarily based on ensuring that the Group invests in Financial control markets necessitates robust financial control and retains employees with comprehensive financial and regional and reporting and reporting.
Regional tax regimes and experience.
The Groups recruitment and leadership programmes currency markets present additional are an important element of recruiting and developing the right complexities.
Local professional advisors who have worked with the Group and analysis is essential in ensuring that over a number of years provide additional assurance that regional financial performance and long-term requirements are fully complied with.
shareholder value remains on track.
The implementation of the global financial reporting tool iscomplete, providing enhanced financial reporting and costleadership.
The financial performance of regional business units against the Groups strategic objectives is subject to regular peer review through the regional management structure.
Major projects and other internal investments Projects and internal investments are based on a robust business Internal are equally critical to meeting the Groups case.
These must clearly identify the associated risks and are investment strategic objectives, and failure to achieve subject to critical review and approval.
The Group applies its planned returns on investment or to deliver established risk review processes to all major projects to ensure projects on time or agreed scope can have that risks are identified, evaluated and reviewed through the life financial, operational, commercial and ofthe project.
The cost of energy and global demand for Mitigation includes energy management programmes and strategic Commodities raw materials can be subject to sudden commodity procurement in order to ensure continuity of essential change and are influenced by geopolitical supplies and effective cost management.
Process innovation and unrest and natural catastrophes.
The quality are essential to the Group continuing to differentiate itself economic climate also continues to be against its competitors.
challenging in respect of prices and margins across all service lines and associated logistics services.
24 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key risk and uncertainty Mitigation Operational risks The loss of operational capacity due to Mitigation is achieved through the continuing development, review Business theunexpected loss of one or more facilities and testing of business continuity planning.
In addition to meeting continuity is potentially significant.
Consequently required safe working, fire safety and maintenance requirements, stakeholders expectations regarding all facilities have localised emergency response plans in place business continuity planning are increasingly which aim to minimise any disruption caused by incidents or critical elements of their assurance and plantfailures.
The Risk Management team also works in close partnership with insurers and other partners to continually review and enhance business continuity and disaster recovery plans.
The loss of the Rawang facility in Malaysia in April 2014 confirmed that business continuity arrangements were generally effective butlearning outcomes from the incident are being reviewed and actions identified to further enhance business continuity planning.
The principal property risk is fire within a Mitigation relies on high standards of housekeeping and Fire safety linen facility.
Owing to the abundance of fuel fireprotection.
sources a laundry fire can quickly escalate to The Group has comprehensive fire safety procedures and works a major conflagration, leading to total loss of closely with the fire authorities and insurers to identify and control the property and equipment.
Fire safety in the AST business could also The risk management team have been working with the UKs Fire cause significant financial loss and business Protection Association FPA to review fire protection in irradiation continuity impacts.
bunkers and the recommendations made by the FPA are being reviewed prior to implementation.
Failure to maintain a safe environment which Robust health and safety systems are a priority.
The Board Health and safety is attributable to a failure of our health and iscommitted to creating and maintaining a safe environment safety management systems could result in a andregularly reviews and challenges health and safety major incident or fatality.
This would impact performance, standards and targets across our business.
on colleagues and other stakeholders as well Compliance with health and safety standards is monitored as our reputation.
acrossthe Group through an assurance process of selfassessments and risk management audits, with issues reportedtothe SEB where necessary.
The impact from a major environmental or Our business is committed to carrying on our business ethically Environmental or ethical failure, corporate fraud or material and in line with good business practices.
ethical failure non-compliance with legislative or regulatory Our commitment to sustainability remains a key value and where requirements would be damaging to Synergy possible we integrate sustainable policies into our business models Healths reputation and brand.
and our property, logistics and distribution strategies.
25 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Health and safety Risk financing The Synergy Health plc Board and SEB are fully The Group ensures that all relevant committed to providing a safe workplace and insurancecover is maintained and has managing risk: the safety of our colleagues, completed our objective to carry out a full customers and other people who may be strategic review of risk financing within three affected by our activities remains a key priority.
years of implementing the global programme.
With effect from April 2014 all of the Groups Although the Group has had extensive operations are covered by the global safetyprocedures in place for many years insurance programme with appropriate weconstantly strive to improve and adopt localpolicies in place where required.
anapproach of continuous review and enhancement.
This has led to a number of Code of Ethics initiatives, including the implementation of The Group is committed to carrying on our aweb-based risk management information business ethically and in line with good system, online incident reporting, the ongoing business practices.
The Group maintains a development of global safety standards and strict Code of Ethics and subsidiary antithe introduction of the risk management corruption, gifts and corporate hospitality assurance programme.
policies which are fully available to all employees.
The Group has continued to Our Group-wide safety campaign Focus deliver Bribery Act training across the onSafety, developed and implemented to business using a range of taught and support the launch of the new safety systems e-learning training materials.
Whistleblower and reflect the Groups commitment to safety, reporting arrangements are also maintained.
remains in place and is the core message of monthly safety awareness posters and other Risk management strategy 2015 2016 communication initiatives.
Making Focus on The risk management strategy aims to Safety our priority helps to achieve our aim providea continuously improving, increasingly ofpromoting safe working and preventing proactive and embedded risk management workplace injuries and incidents.
This is based on devolving ownership of risks to Incidents and claims therelevant operational and functional In spite of health and safety management teams, developing globally consistent safety procedures and safe working systems being in standards, systems and assurance processes.
place, a small number of incidents and claims are inevitable.
Minor incidents, including slips, The benefits and importance of robust and trips and falls, cuts and lacerations, are the proactive risk management are clear, with risk leading cause of injuries to employees and the management enabling the Group to achieve Risk Management team is continuing to work our strategic objectives and protect and on further reducing the risk of injuries and enhance our assets, including our reputation.
Claims management has been a particular focus area with the team working closely with insurers to further enhance investigation, defensibility and management of claims in order to reduce costs and claims experience.
We are now seeing the benefits of this approach with significant reductions being achieved in the costs of claims, medical treatment and prescriptions in both the US and Europe.
26 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
