17 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report: Performance Principal risks and uncertainties In common with other organisations, we are affected by a number of risks, not all of which are in our control.
Somerisks, such as UK macroeconomic factors, are likely to affect the performance of UK businesses generally, while others are particular to our operations.
This section sets out the material risks to the Group and how we seek to mitigate them in the day to day running of our business.
Potential impact: Changes in BTs regulated Mitigation: We have continued to actively participate in 1.
Regulatory wholesale prices for copper and fibre products Ofcoms consultations impacting on wholesale prices, environment can significantly impact the Groups performance.
especially this year the debate around applying a margin Mergers can change the competitive test to fibre products.
In particular, we have provided landscape of markets we buy in or sell into.
Ofcom with evidence, argument and expert opinion to support the case that competition, consumers interests and the development of a mass market for super-fast broadband will be best served by reductions in wholesale prices or, in the case of fibre, a wider margin between wholesale and retail prices.
Ofcom commencing its Strategic Review of the telecoms industry is a positive step, with TalkTalk fully engaged in the consultation process.
We have also engaged with the Competition and Markets Authority CMA on regulatory assessment of the proposed merger between BT and EE.
Potential impact: Failure to deliver a seamless Mitigation: We are committed to continuously reviewing 2.
Customer and positive end to end experience of and improving the level and quality of customer service we experience TalkTalks products and services or to deal provide.
This financial year, we have continued to develop with customers queries and complaints and deliver a number of major initiatives under Making effectively could damage our brand and TalkTalk Simpler to i reduce the likelihood of customers leadto increased churn.
experiencing service issues: ii improve the ability of our customers to self-help online: and iii deliver better training and tools to our Customer Service teams so that queries and complaints can be handled more effectively.
Potential impact: In order to deliver high value Mitigation: A new Group Change Director reporting 3.
Technology and market-disruptive products and services, directly to the CEO has been appointed.
The Group innovation and atcompetitive prices, we need to continuously Change Director has established a new central Project change management innovate, whilst sustaining our focus on simplifying Management Office PMO, responsible for overseeing our systems and processes.
In FY16 and beyond thegovernance of change across the organisation.
The we will be delivering a number of major Executive Committee regularly monitors the progress product innovation initiatives alongside a ofsignificant change programmes and associated risks significant ITchange agenda.
Failure to through the Group PMO.
manage this level of innovation and change successfully could have an adverse impact on the services we provide to our customers andon our financial performance.
Potential impact: Failure to prevent the loss Mitigation: The Group continually reviews and seeks best 4.
Data and cyber or exploitation of personally identifiable or practice external guidance on its data and cyber security security commercially sensitive information could capability and invests in and implements new solutions, result in loss of competitive advantage, both to prevent and detect incidents.
TalkTalk continues regulatory fines, damage to the brand, to adopt the Ten Steps to Cyber Security as a control andultimately, churn.
framework for mitigating key areas of risk.
Progress is monitored via the in house Data Council, which convenes monthly and is chaired by the Chief Technology Officer CTO.
InFY15, key initiatives including the encryption of hardware and removable media, a data loss prevention solution, vulnerability scanning and penetration testing have been completed.
A new Head of Security has also been appointed to establish and oversee the new Security Operations Centre, the activities of which have been outsourced to cyber security experts BAe systems.
18 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report: Performance Principal risks and uncertainties continued Potential impact: Failure to maintain Mitigation: There has been significant focus during the 5.
Infrastructure sufficient and acceptable levels of network year on ensuring optimum levels of capacity are delivered stability and and system performance for the Groups and maintained to avoid network congestion for customers.
resilience Consumer and Business customers could In FY16 we will continue to invest in our infrastructure and lead to complaints and, ultimately, churn.
deliver a number of IT change programmes which will improve stability and resilience.
Potential impact: Failure to operate effective Mitigation: There has been continued focus this year 6.
Regulatory processes and controls across the Group onimproving processes and controls and clarifying lines compliance may have an adverse impact on the services of accountability both in first line operations and in our we deliver to our customers, leading to churn second line assurance function.
There has been and non-compliance with regulatory significant progress with delivering improvements in requirements.
The fines that Ofcom can ourcomplaints handling processes during the period.
impose on the Group and the associated This has resulted in a reduction in market share of Ofcom negative publicity could adversely impact complaints from our customers and inour market share our brand, reputation and profitability.
of complaints for the sector.
TheGroups Regulatory Compliance Committee has continued to convene throughout the year to monitor the mitigation of operational risks which could give rise tocustomer complaints and regulatory breaches.
The Director of Quality and Compliance has chaired weekly operational compliance meetings throughout the year, attended by senior executives.
Potential impact: With BTs planned Mitigation: Our focus remains on: i engaging with the 7.
Growth in a highly acquisition of EE, Threes planned acquisition CMA and Ofcom to put in place appropriate remedies in competitive and of O2 and with the move towards triple and support of fair completion when mergers and acquisitions consolidating quad play bundles, the medium to long term take place: ii delivery of our commercial priorities designed industry industry structure is less certain.
There is to strengthen our market position as a leading and arisk that industry consolidation creates disruptive quad play provider: and iii implementing fewer larger and lower cost competitors ourMaking TalkTalk Simpler initiatives.
andweakens TalkTalks ability to remain competitive in a triple and quad play market.
Potential impact: TalkTalk relies on a number Mitigation: We continue to review and improve our 8.
K ey suppliers of key suppliers to provide network, equipment processes and controls around supplier selection and and services.
A failure in their people, systems in-life risk management.
In FY15 there has been significant or processes or to act in an ethically responsible focus on establishing a robust governance framework for manner could significantly affect TalkTalks our strategic suppliers in particular.
This helps to reduce reputation and financial performance.
the likelihood and potential impact of business interruption due to supplier failure.
Potential impact: Now that TalkTalk has Mitigation: Service quality remains a key area of focus 9.
Scaling TV successfully established its TV proposition, and we have been working closely with our strategic the business must ensure that it can continue partners to improve the speed and performance of the to build scale effectively.
Failure to innovate, set-top box and remote control.
We run an extensive deliver high quality content at competitive customer feedback programme and conduct prices or continuously monitor and improve benchmarking tests and field research.
We continually the quality of our TV service could adversely develop and renew our partnerships with content providers impact our brand and reputation, leading to ensure a broad range of family entertainment as we tochurn.
build scale including a new deal with Netflix.
In Q4 FY15 we also announced the acquisition of Tescos blinkbox business, which will help accelerate our product innovation and TV growth plans.
