Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal Risks and Uncertainties The table below summarises the Groups Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
These are not listed by order of importance.
Management of these risks and uncertainties is the responsibility of the Chief Executive and the Group Management Team, together with the roles noted below.
We maintain a Sustainability and Climate Change Risk and Opportunity Register to monitor other sustainability issues that could affect the Group.
In addition, our climate change related risks and opportunities are available as part of our 2015 CDP submission.
More information is available at www.
co. uk corporate sustainability Relevance to strategy Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Progress in 2015 Our customer and Our ability to build homes With the introduction We operate within our Government policy and A and communities is dependent of The Housing and comprehensive communitycommunity engagement planning regulations strategy is embedded and upon drawing up site proposals Planning Bill, we may led planning strategy.
This The National Planning Policy which meet the needs and be required to meet improves communications having a positive effect.
Framework NPPF and the Localism Act affordability of our customers, higher levels of planning with all parties, but especially are becoming established, whilst uptake We have been successful obtaining planning permissions obligations and we may local communities, thereby of the Community Infrastructure Levy in gaining planning in acceptable timeframes and incur additional costs enhancing our ability to CIL is increasing, but slowly.
consents through the year achieving other regulatory to meet increased deliver developments that with particular emphasis The Housing and Planning Bill was requirements and permits.
on the conversion of the presented to Parliament in the Autumn and Unforeseen delays or The NPPF has been positive for We consult with Government strategic land pipeline.
is closely linked to many of the initiatives inability to obtain suitable housebuilding, although there agencies and opposition announced in the Chancellors Autumn consents, could impact We continued our remains a risk of delayed or parties on housing policy, Statement and Spending Review.
These on the number or type participation in the local refused planning applications, both directly and indirectly as aim to address the disparity between the of homes that we build.
Plans Management Group increased timescales to a member of industry groups, demand and supply for housing in the PMG, via the HBF, to the discharge of planning The locally produced to highlight potential issues UK, by seeking changes to the planning ensure local plans are conditions and greater CIL charge schedules and to understand any system and signalling potential financial robust and CIL charge complexity around S106 may increase costs, proposed changes to considerations for some sections of our schedules are appropriate.
since the introduction of CIL.
The position is dynamic as of current developments.
We have met with a number of elements, particularly around As all elements of the recent Where CIL charges are Government officials and the Starter Homes initiative, are still to be announcements are clarified, not in place, there could contributed to the HBF fully defined which, as they are clarified and there could be a change in be an impact on gaining submissions in respect of embedded, could have a disruptive effect demand for specific products planning consent or The Housing and Planning on the planning system, sales rates, site at our planned sites.
In turn, Judicial Review Bill and the Starter Homes mixes and customer behaviour.
this may lead to changes to challenge.
site mixes, and to extended Responsibility This could have a timeframes to gaining consent.
detrimental impact on Land Director the contribution per plot.
Regional Managing Directors The majority of the homes that A reduction in demand Our local teams select the We offer the GovernmentB Impact of market environment backed Help to Buy we build are sold to individual for new homes below locations and home designs on mortgage availability purchasers who take on normal levels could that best meet the needs scheme and have seen and demand strong interest in the mortgages to finance their negatively impact on of the local community and Mortgage availability and affordability purchases.
A change in both profit and cash customer demand in the scheme amongst constrain the demand for housing.
This would present and future.
We Following the Mortgage Market Review in employment opportunities have an adverse effect evaluate new outlet openings 2014, stricter guidelines were introduced Throughout 2015 we have or significant changes in on return on net on the basis of local market for lenders to assess mortgage affordability.
continued to develop good the base rate may impact operating assets conditions and regularly In 2015, the Bank of Englands Financial working relationships with review the pricing and on the demand for housing.
Policy Committee gained new powers, established mainstream incentives that we offer.
to set loan-to-value and debt-to-income In particular, the ability for first lenders and those wishing limits for residential mortgages.
time buyers and investors to We work closely with the to increase volume within purchase homes is impacted financial services industry the new build market.
The Government has extended the by changes in mortgage to ensure customers Help to Buy equity loan scheme to 2021, availability at the higher receive good advice although there is uncertainty over the loan-to-value levels, as it on the procurement of impact when the scheme ends.
would impact on the level mortgage products.
Responsibility UK Sales and Marketing Director Regional Sales and Marketing Directors In order to optimise our build If the availability of We maintain regular contact Following the recent growth C Material costs and availability cost efficiency, whilst retaining subcontractors or with suppliers and negotiate in housebuilding, availability of subcontractors the flexibility to commence materials is insufficient contract volume, pricing and and cost of materials has A continued increase in housing production work on new sites as planning to meet demand, this duration as appropriate.
We stabilised and meets may further reduce the availability of consents allow, the vast could lead to increased provide both high-level and current demand.
The materials and subcontractors, and put majority of work carried build times and costs, site specific programme supply of quality pressure on utility firms to keep up with out on site is performed thereby reducing information to aid with subcontractors remains the pace of installation.
This results in build by subcontractors.
The Group has programme and completion delays and agreed product lines and Lack of skilled an unexpected increase in costs.
Without the introduction of Competencies are considered volumes with key suppliers subcontractors could new resources into the housing as part of our subcontractor to mitigate long lead times Responsibility also result in higher levels market, labour and material selection process, particularly and shortages.
of waste being produced Head of Procurement prices could increase.
in relation to health and safety, from our sites and lower Regional Commercial Directors quality, previous performance build quality.
We work to address the skills shortage with apprenticeship schemes and the Construction Industry Training Board.
36 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Relevance to strategy Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Progress in 2015 Our value cycle requires Not having the right We closely monitor employee During 2015, we increased D Ability to attract and retain significant input from skilled teams in place could turnover levels on a monthly the number of employees high-calibre employees people to deliver quality homes lead to delays in build, basis and conduct exit on apprentice, management Recruiting employees with inadequate skills and communities for our quality issues, reduced interviews, as appropriate, and graduate training or in insufficient numbers, or not being able customers.
sales levels, poor to identify any areas for schemes.
We broadened to retain key staff with the right skills for the customer service and improvement.
our recruitment channels, future, could have a detrimental impact on There remains an increasing reduced profitability.
incidence of poaching in the We benchmark our candidate base.
The remuneration to ensure renewed approach to Responsibility demand for high-quality trained we are competitive within succession planning Group HR Director and experienced employees the industry.
enabled more internal has increased and is key to Every employee managing people candidates to be promoted Clear succession plans are achieving our strategic goals.
Finally, the in place for key roles within benefits package has been the Group.
We hold regular refined and aligned across development reviews to weekly and monthly paid identify training requirements.
Land is the major raw material Purchasing poor-quality Our Land teams select and The short term land E Land purchasing for the Group.
The limited or mispriced land, or appraise each site, with the market remained benign The purchase of land of poor quality, at availability of good-quality land incorrectly timing land appraisal process ensuring throughout 2015 enabling too high a price, or incorrect timing of at an attractive price throughout purchases would have a that each project is financially us to continue to invest land purchases in relation to the economic the housing cycle leads to detrimental impact on our viable, consistent with our in value-creating land cycle could impact future profitability.
strategy and appropriately opportunities at investment authorised.
Responsibility Acquiring insufficient land The disciplined purchasing of Divisional Managing Directors would reduce our ability to The landbank is now at land of the appropriate quality, We strive to be the actively manage the land Regional Managing Directors on attractive terms at the right developer of choice, through the optimal size range to portfolio and create value deliver our strategy.
Together time and scale in the economic a comprehensive approach Regional Land and Planning Directors for shareholders.
cycle, will enhance the Groups encompassing land vendors, with the strong conversion Strategic Land Managing Directors of the strategic pipeline, our ability to deliver sustainable land agents, local councils margins through the cycle.
Our reliance on purchasing short term land has diminished, Strategic Land teams work alongside regional businesses, which provides some insulation from an to identify and secure land with the potential for future increase in land price.
development and to promote it through the planning system.
Our operations involve, and In addition to the We have a comprehensive We continue to compare F Site and product safety interface with, a large number potentially tragic personal health, safety and favourably with the UK Building sites are inherently dangerous of people.
People range impact of an accident on environmental HSE housebuilding and places.
Unsafe practices by our employees from employees and site or after customer management system in construction industry in or subcontractors have the potential to subcontractors, to customers completion, there is place, which is integral to our terms of site safety.
We cause death or serious injury.
and their families, who live on potential for legal business.
This is supported have continued to keep Responsibility or visit our sites each day.
We proceedings, financial by our policies and our Annual Injury Incidence want all of these people to go penalties, reputational procedures to ensure that Rate AIIR for reportable Director of Health, Safety home at the end of the day damage and delay to we live up to our intention of injuries low at 175 per and Environment safe and uninjured.
providing a safe and healthy 100,000 employees and Every employee and subcontractor working environment and contractors in 2015 2014: build homes that comply 209.
We reduced our AIIR with the required regulations.
for major injuries from 26 in 2014 to 18 in 2015.
We provide extensive HSE training for our employees, During 2015, we continued running HSE induction our site safety training, training, poster campaigns extending training to over as well as providing regular 3,135 groundworkers site toolbox talks for our supervisors, each receiving contractors and operatives.
a site safety supervisory In 2014, we launched The qualification.
We also Operatives Journey, a major introduced stages 2 and 3 new initiative to improve of The Operatives Journey communications to our which aims to foster shared supply chain and site work ownership with our supply force, to create partnering chain and operatives, for contractors to share maintaining a safe site.
ownership for maintaining We continually monitor a safe site.
procedures and implement improvements to the work All HSE issues are reviewed undertaken on site.
by the GMT and, where appropriate, actions put in place to rectify issues or prevent a recurrence.
