STRATEGIC REPORT | RISKS How do we effectively manage the risks we face?
Tate & Lyle is exposed to Identify risks a number of risks which could have a material adverse effect on our Assess Review and risks and monitor risks interactions reputation, operations Risk framework and financial performance.
Respond Prioritise risks to risks The Board has overall responsibility for the and compliance risks, and then develop exercise, which includes a review of how Groups system of risk management and action plans and controls to mitigate them the previous years risk appetite had been internal control.
The schedule of matters as far as possible, to the extent deemed applied in practice, are used as part of our reserved to the Board ensures that the appropriate taking account of the Groups strategic planning activities, and in setting Directors control, among other matters, risk appetite.
These risks are then reviewed ongoing mitigating actions.
all significant strategic, financial and again by the Board.
This process takes organisational risks.
As part of this annual risk Key risks assessment process, the Board also reviews Key risks and uncertainties identified as part Approach emerging and black swan risks facing the of the risk management process undertaken Annual process to identify risks Group.
The process reviews risks over a during the year, together with some of the The Group-wide risk management and time period of between two and five years.
mitigating actions we are taking, are set out reporting process helps us to identify, on pages 35 and 36.
However, it is not assess, prioritise and mitigate risk.
It follows Managing risks possible to identify or anticipate every risk the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations Individual executives in each division are that may affect the Group.
of the Treadway Commission COSO assigned responsibility for managing Enterprise Risk framework.
key risks and their associated mitigating The individual risks in relation to the controls.
As part of the process, senior operational and supply chain disruption Our process is both bottom-up and executive management formally confirms which occurred during the year were top-down.
The bottom-up aspect of the once a year that these key risks are being identified as part of the risk management process involves a rolling programme of managed appropriately within their process.
However, the scale, velocity and workshops, facilitated by the risk operations and that controls have been combination of these risks significantly management team, held around the Group.
The increased their overall impact on the Group.
During these workshops, we identify current confirmations and any exceptions are As a result, we reviewed our processes and and forward-looking risks which are collated discussed at the Audit Committee and made some enhancements, for example, by and reported through functional and Corporate Responsibility Committee, and, placing a greater focus on those areas and divisional levels to the Group Executive where appropriate, reported to the Board.
behaviours which could potentially trigger Committee.
The top-down aspect involves risk combinations in the future.
the Board assessing what it believes to be The Board and the Group Executive the key risks facing Tate & Lyle.
We combine Committee undertake an annual exercise the results of these processes to identify the to consider the nature and extent of the Groups key business, financial, operational Groups risk appetite.
The results of this 34 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION What key risks and uncertainties have been identified?
Risks How do we manage the risk?
Safety Health and safety policies and procedures at all facilities with Failure to act safely and to maintain the safe operation dedicated staff to ensure they are embedded and measured of our facilities Regular review of performance and policies by the Corporate The safety of our employees, contractors, suppliers, and Responsibility Committee the communities in which we operate is paramount.
We must Maintenance of suitable insurance programme operate within local laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating Programme of global compliance audits: senior executives also to health, safety and the environment, including emissions.
Failure undertake annual executive audits at most sites to act safely may give rise to fines or penalties for breach of safety Following a challenging year, in mid-2014 we hired external safety auditors laws, interruptions in operations or loss of licence to operate, liability to carry out a thorough audit of safety at all our major locations.
This payments and costs arising from injuries or damage and damage allowed us to understand how each site was following our procedures to reputation.
and permit systems, and what improvements were needed.
During the year we began carrying out their recommendations, particularly with regards to behavioural safety and leadership by example.
This is helping our teams improve their understanding of and approach to safety.
Strategy Investments to increase our sales and technical resources, Failure to grow in speciality food ingredients including in emerging markets Tate & Lyles strategy is to become the leading global provider of New staff recruited and development of existing staff to upgrade speciality food ingredients and solutions.
Our ability to deliver the skill sets, particularly in customer-facing areas and innovation strategy may be affected by a number of factors such as delivering Enhancement of internal capabilities to help promote growth through growth in emerging markets, acquisitions, customer readiness to acquisition adopt new ingredients and incorporate them in new product Establishment of a global programme to enhance customer launches, competitor actions, and growing key product or product account management, planning and execution families.
Failure to deliver our strategy over the longer term would negatively affect our credibility, reputation and profitability.
Innovation and Commercial Development ICD team works closely with Innovation customers and other external organisations to identify emerging trends Failure to innovate and commercialise new products Open innovation team actively scouts for breakthrough technologies Failure to identify important consumer trends and provide innovative and opportunities across industries and universities solutions, and the inability to successfully commercialise new Global Marketing organisation in place to provide support for new products, could impact the delivery of our strategy.
This would affect product launches as well as core business our performance and reputation.
Prioritisation of partnership opportunities with customers to accelerate development cycles and time to market for new ingredients Tate & Lyle Ventures invests in early-stage companies in the areas of food sciences and technologies by partnering with research institutions, other venture funds, universities and entrepreneurs Strict quality control procedures and testing of all product lines to Quality ensure products are released only with full quality control clearance Failure to maintain the quality of our products Quality policies, procedures and performance reviewed regularly and high standards of customer service by the Corporate Responsibility Committee The safety of consumers of our products is critical.
Poor quality Third-party audit programme supplemented by internal global or sub-standard products or poor customer service could have a compliance audits negative impact on our reputation and relationships with customers.
Recall simulation exercises undertaken People Remuneration policies designed to attract, retain and reward Failure to attract, develop, engage and retain key personnel employees with ability and experience to execute Group strategy Performance, knowledge and skills of employees are central to our Talent development strategy to provide opportunities for employees, success.
We must attract, integrate, engage and retain the talent as well as training to close skill gaps required to deliver our strategy, and have the appropriate processes Single global performance management system and talent planning and culture in place.
Being unable to retain key people and processes in place adequately plan for succession could have a negative impact Greater focus by the Board on succession planning for business-critical on the Companys performance.
roles Measurement of progress against cultural objectives for example, global employee surveys Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 35 Key: New key risks since last years Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT | RISKS CONTINUED Risks How do we manage the risk?
Regular monitoring and review of changes in law and regulation Legal, IS IT and compliance in such areas as health and safety, environment, quality, food safety Failure to comply with legislation and regulation and to and corporate governance protect the integrity of our data and information systems Legal teams maintain compliance policies in areas such as anti-trust We operate in a variety of markets and are therefore exposed and anti-corruption law: and provide ongoing training to employees to a wide range of legal and regulatory frameworks.
We must Cyber security enhancement programme in place understand and comply with all applicable legislation.
Any breach could have a financial impact and damage our reputation.
Operations Business continuity capabilities in place to enable supply, as quickly Failure to maintain the continuous operation of our plant as practicable, of product to customers from alternative sources in network and supply chain the event of a natural disaster or major equipment or plant failure The operation of plants involves many risks, which could cause Dedicated internal resources allocated to key projects in conjunction temporary or permanent breaks in production.
We must have a with business teams to ensure business continuity is not compromised.
robust sales and operations planning system to avoid disruption External resources and expertise used where required to the supply chain and an inability to service our customers.
Failure Programme in place to improve global supply chain processes to do so could have a material adverse effect on our performance.
New protocols implemented to enhance plants ability to operate in extreme cold conditions Raw materials Strategic relationships with suppliers and trading companies including Fluctuations in prices and availability of raw materials, multi-year agreements energy, freight and other operating inputs Balanced portfolio of supply and tolling contracts in operation with Margins may be affected by fluctuations in crop prices due to factors customers to manage balance of raw material prices and product sales such as alternative crops, co-product values and the variability of prices and volume risks local or regional harvests caused by, for example, weather Raw material and energy purchasing policies to provide security conditions, crop disease, climate change, and crop yields.
In some of supply cases, due to the basis for pricing in sales contracts, or due to Expanding network of corn elevators to enhance security of supply competitive markets, we may not be able to pass on to customers New or back-up supply sources in place in case primary suppliers face the full increase in raw material prices or higher energy, freight or localised challenges other operating costs.
Additionally, margins may be affected by Use of derivatives and forward contracts where possible to hedge customers not taking expected volumes.
and manage raw materials and co-product price exposures Global regulatory team, supported by external consultants, monitors Food regulation consumer concerns local regulatory requirements affecting our products Changes in consumer or government perception of our Global nutrition team initiates and monitors research and publications products and regulatory risks impacting freedom to operate concerning the use and functionality of our ingredients and maintains Our freedom to operate may be affected by changes in food global network of health and nutrition clinicians, academics and experts regulation, consumer concerns, political campaigns targeted at Membership of trade organisations to provide access to broader sources specific ingredients or technologies or other factors that may impact of information and to ensure, where appropriate, a single voice for the the regulatory status or perception of our products or of their industry on regulatory and public interest issues affecting our ingredients functionality, efficacy or use.
We must ensure that the science Maintenance of relations with regulatory authorities behind our ingredients for example, health claims, nutritional impact, Providing clear information on ingredients provenance and traceability biotechnology in crops or other material for food use is supported Research Advisory Group chaired by a non-executive director by credible sources, clearly communicated and understood by comprising leading scientific experts to review selected critical aspects relevant regulatory authorities.
Failure to do so may restrict the of the Groups innovation activities and provide guidance markets for our products.
Finance Capital expenditure procedures to control and monitor allocation Failure to manage the balance sheet, particularly during and spend periods of economic uncertainty All new investments evaluated against clear strategic and financial We must manage our finances within strictly controlled parameters, criteria: those approved are reviewed for execution against milestones particularly when external financial conditions are uncertain and External resources and expertise used where required volatile.
Our existing transformation programme consists of a Exposure to liquidity risk is managed by maintaining access to a wide number of capital expenditure projects which, if not delivered range of funding sources, and by effective management of our cash successfully, could negatively affect our performance and reputation.
resources Finance Finance policies and standards are in place supported by procedures Failure to maintain an effective system of internal for key finance processes, for example, capital expenditure financial controls Finance risk assessments are undertaken and key finance risks Without effective internal financial controls, we could be exposed monitored through the Treasury Risk Committee to financial irregularities and losses from acts which could have a Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer undertake detailed quarterly significant impact on the ability of the business to operate.
We must business and financial reviews safeguard business assets and ensure the accuracy and reliability Additional control oversight, monitoring and processes are introduced of our records and financial reporting.
through periods of significant change, for example, the implementation of the new global IS IT system Core controls embedded in systems and processes are routinely reviewed for effectiveness, for example, segregation of duties to control access rights within Group systems Shareholder expectations Implementation of new business performance management capability Failure to manage shareholders expectations and cycle to improve performance management and steer 2016 We must communicate a clear strategic vision, deliver the annual Annual Operating Plan delivery operating plan and provide accurate and timely information to the New forward disclosure framework to improve presentation of market to enable the investment community to efficiently assess the business results Companys value, and reduce the risk of uncertainty and volatility Investor Relations team in place with improved communications and in the share price.
Failure to do so could impact our reputation and disclosure framework credibility with shareholders.
36 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015
