STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board recognises there are a number of risks and uncertainties that face the Group.
The Board and subsidiary directors the Executive Committee have established a structured approach to identify, assess and manage these risks and this is regularly monitored and updated by the Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee includes the Chief Operating Officer and various subsidiary directors and heads of department.
Although not exhaustive, the following list highlights some of the principal risks which are not shown in order of importance: ISSUE POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION STRATEGIC RISKS Brand and The strength of our brand and its reputation are important We carefully consider each new opportunity and each reputational risk to the business.
There is a risk that our brand may be such customer and partner with whom we do business.
undermined or damaged by our actions or those of Such partners are monitored on an ongoing basis to our partners.
ensure they remain appropriate to the brand.
Incorrect management of social media interactions could Our dedicated team closely monitors social media have an adverse effect on our reputation.
channels and addresses any issues in accordance with our protocol.
Development of Failure in growing the international business through We perform extensive due diligence on all potential partners overseas markets franchise operations, licensees and e-commerce.
Risk and to assess our appropriate route to market.
We operate in that the Group fails to prioritise the right territories a range of international markets, which helps to mitigate over or investment.
reliance and exposure to any one territory.
Fashion and Design As with all fashion brands there is a risk that our offer We maintain a high level of market awareness and an will not satisfy the needs of our customers or we fail to understanding of consumer trends and fashion to ensure correctly identify trends, both resulting in lower sales and that we remain able to respond to changes in consumer reduced market share.
External events External events may occur which may affect the global, All factors affecting these stakeholders are monitored economic and financial environment in which we operate.
closely on an ongoing basis ensuring that we are prepared These events can affect our suppliers, customers and for and can react to changes in the external environment, partners, risking an increase in our cost base and allowing us to reduce our exposure as early as possible.
The geographic spread of our business and supply chain also helps to mitigate these risks.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Supply chain If garments do not reach us on time and to Our supply chain is diversified across a number of specification, there is a risk of a loss of revenue suppliers in different regions, reducing reliance on a and customer confidence.
small number of key suppliers.
Suppliers are treated as key business partners and we work closely with them to mitigate these risks.
Infrastructure There is a risk of operational problems, including The business continuity plan is constantly reviewed and disruption to the infrastructure that supports our updated by the Risk Committee.
In addition, business business, which may lead to a loss of revenue, disruption is covered by our insurance policies.
Social responsibility We are committed to operating in a responsible and Four members of the Executive Committee have been sustainable manner as regards our supply chain, tasked with overseeing specific areas of our social environment and community.
If we fail to operate in a responsibility agenda.
We have an employee whose sole manner that supports our philosophy, this could damage responsibility is to monitor this agenda and ensure our the trust and confidence of our stakeholders.
practices fall in line with it.
16 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL RISKS IT and cyber security Advances in technology have resulted in more data being Commitment of additional specialist resources and the CONTINUED transmitted electronically, posing an increased security continual upgrading of security equipment and software risk.
There is also the possibility of unintentional loss of mitigate these risks.
controlled data by authorised users.
Implementation of We are in the process of implementing Microsoft The Groups IT Steering Committee meets on a two weekly new ERP system Dynamics AX across the business.
With any project basis to review the implementation and all other major IT of this scale, there is a risk of a poorly managed projects.
The Committee comprises members of the Executive implementation or take up of new systems, which Committee and the Board and is advised by professional could lead to business disruptions.
Robust management and project governance with professional project managers recruited to oversee the project team which includes key business stakeholders.
People Our performance is linked to the performance of our Retention of key talent is important and we take active people and, in particular, to the leadership of key steps to provide stability and security to the key team.
The loss of a key individual whether at We carry out an annual benchmarking review to ensure management level or within a specialist skill set could that we provide competitive remuneration and total have a detrimental effect on our operations and, in some reward packages.
We also utilise long-termincentive cases, the creative vision for the brand.
schemes to retain key talent.
Employee engagement through our culture and environment strengthen the commitment of team members and has a positive impact on our attrition rate.
Succession plans are in place and have been reviewed during the period.
Regulatory and legal We operate within many markets globally and must The Group closely monitors changes in the legal and framework comply with various regulatory requirements.
Failure regulatory framework within the markets in which it to do so could lead to financial penalties and or operates.
We work closely with specialists in each market reputational damage.
to ensure compliance with local laws and regulations.
FINANCIAL RISKS Currency, interest, In the course of its operations, we are exposed to these The Groups policies for dealing with these risks are credit and financial risks which if they were to arise may have discussed in detail in note 22 on pages 87 to 93. counterparty credit material financial impacts on the Group.
risks, including financial covenants under the credit facilities Our disclosures, as required under Companies Act 2006, in relation to environmental matters, employees including diversity data, social and community are discussed on pages 28 to 31.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by: C F Anderson Secretary Registered office The Ugly Brown Building, 6a St Pancras Way, London NW1 0TB Company No.
03393836 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 17
