56 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT EMBEDDING A CULTURE OFRISKMANAGEMENT OUR RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGY TOP DOWN OVERSIGHT The Board is responsible for maintaining the Groups risk management The Risk Matters Group RMG and the broader risk management and internal control systems, with a mandate that includes defining framework have been designed to ensure the scope of coverage risk appetite and monitoring risk exposures and mitigations to ensure includes transformational strategic, operational, financial and legal that the nature and extent of risks taken by the Group are aligned risks within a single framework.
Chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, with its strategic objectives.
thepurpose of the RMG is to provide leadership, direction and oversight with regard to the Groups overall risk framework, appetite, RISK APPETITE and relevant risk policies, processes and controls.
The RMG meets on a quarterly basis, and reviews the Group Risk Dashboard, key The Board has undertaken a detailed exercise to consider the risk risk indicators and the Groups principal risks, All business areas appetite in a number of key areas for the business.
The results of are represented through attendance by senior executives ensuring this review indicate the relative appetite of the Board across the risk an appropriate level of insight and validation.
The chair of the Audit factors and behaviours.
It is evident that this represents a view at Committee regularly attends the meetings of the RMG.
The RMG a point in time and changes in light of the economic environment, reports to the Audit Committee and the CEO of the Group.
strategy and performance of the business will impact this evaluation.
The Board are aligned on the relative risks and have agreed the BOTTOM UP ASSESSMENTS appetite for risk taking for digital delivery and product risk categories Our investment in risk management software ensures that risk is entrepreneurial.
This position aligns with the strategic aims of the registers are regularly updated and reviewed through a Group-wide transformation programme and targets set forthe business.
Each major business unit has a quarterly risk committee attended by the risk owners representing The Board seeks to minimise all health, safety and reputational risks.
all areas of the business, as well as the Group Enterprise Risk and In all other aspects, the Board takes a balanced view on risk taking.
The risk committees analyse key business unit risks and It is the intent of the Board to use the results of this review to ensure implementation of risk mitigation plans.
Where appropriate, support its ongoing decision making and as the basis for a review significant risks identified at business unit level are escalated and annually in the light of the changes to the economic environment, discussed within the RMG.
strategic progress and performance of the business.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE OUR APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT The Audit Committee considers risk exposure against risk appetite by Operating in a dynamic and continually volatile environment requires profiling key risks in respect of their potential impact and likelihood a flexible and responsive risk management process that can match of occurrence, after consideration of mitigating and controlling the pace of change and provide management with a concise view actions that are in place.
During the year, the Audit Committee has of the Groups risk profile at any point in time.
We continue to reviewed both top down and bottom up risk analyses and the Board focus on further embedding a culture of risk management that will has undertaken a detailed exercise to consider its risk appetite.
contribute towards effective strategy execution, ensuring both risk The aim of these activities has resulted in an Annual Audit Plan, which and opportunities are identified and managed to deliver long-term will enable a risk-based approach to the ongoing internal audit and value creation.
The report of the Audit Committee can be found on page 79.
During 2015, we focused on enhancing our dual track approach to risk management consisting of top down oversight from the Board and senior management, and bottom up risk management embedded in the day-to-day activities of the Group.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 57 THE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK TOP DOWN THE BOARD Oversight and assessment Overall responsibility for the Sets strategic objectives and Receives and reviews Audit of risk exposures at the risk management system defines risk appetite Committee reports on risk corporate level governance AUDIT COMMITTEE GROUP EXECUTIVE COUNCIL including CEO & CFO Supports the Board in monitoring risk exposure Maintains executive oversight of the Groups key againstrisk appetite risksand mitigation Monitors the risk management process RISK MATTERS GROUP Sets the risk management Considers emerging risks Provides oversight and challenge process for risk mitigation plans OPERATIONAL LEVEL BOTTOM UP Identification and assessment Group-wide risk identification, Risk awareness and culture Implementation of risk mitigation of risk exposures at Segment assessment and monitoring embedded across the Group plans and controls and function level Maintenance of risk registers The Business Plan includes analysis of the Groups income statement, OUR PRIORITIES FOR 2016 balance sheet, cash flows, KPIs and debt covenants outlook.
The Group Enterprise Risk and Audit Team will continue to support Where appropriate, this analysis is subject to sensitivity testing the business through facilitation of risk workshops for all areas of which involves flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying the Group, working with risk owners to enhance risk governance the Business Plan and evaluating the potential impact of the Groups and improving the risk culture across our organisation.
We anticipate principal risks actually occurring, bothindividually and in unison ongoing development and greater sophistication of bottom up risk and the mitigating actions available tothe Group over the relevant data, with further focus on mitigation strategies for the Groups timeframe if such risks did arise.
Sensitivity testing included assessing the impact of not delivering: VIABILITY STATEMENT the online aspects of our strategy in the UK: competitive pricing in The Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company in our source markets: and, the effect of reduced customer demand accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance tocertain destinations.
The Board approved the Thomas Cook Group three-year The principal risks with a direct link to the viability statement have business plan, which covers the period to 30 September 2018 been indicated in the table overleaf.
Based on the results of this theBusiness Plan.
This Business Plan has been used as the basis analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group for the going concern assessment, goodwill impairment reviews and will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they other estimates made during the financial year.
The Business Plan falldue over the three-year period of their assessment.
contains the most up-to-date management information and provides asufficient level of detail to support these assessments.
ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS The Directors believe a three-year period is appropriate to consider The Groups risk management system works effectively in assessing viability as this is typically the longest duration the Group contracts the Groups risk appetite and has supported a robust assessment with hotels and the timeframe over which the Directors believe by the Directors of the principal risks facing the Group.
The principal they can accurately forecast the benefits arising from the New risks are reviewed throughout the year and these are discussed Operating Model.
This includes all relevant principal risks that could threaten Thomas Cooks business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 58 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The table below lists the principal risks and uncertainties as determined by the Board that may affect the Group and highlights the mitigating actions that are being taken.
The content of the table, however, is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all the risks and uncertainties that may arise.
Principal risks Mitigation Opportunities Our New Operating Model Bi-weekly status reports on each project submitted to the Senior To deliver a best in class 1 NUMO, the next phase of our Management Team.
operatingmodel which will transformation, fails to deliver Monthly Group Transformation Review meetings attended by senior providea competitive advantage our strategic and operational management including CEO and CFO, during which progress and issues inour market.
Financial benefits and KPIs are incorporated in the FY16 FY18 business plan and delivery istracked as part of the business reviewprocess.
Failure to align our products Ongoing monitoring of our hotel portfolio has allowed us to focus Diverse product portfolio enabling 2 and services to customer on the continuous improvement of our product offering, taking into us tomatch product offerings to preferences may have account feedback from our customers.
change incustomer preferences anadverse impact on Our One Tour Operator initiative will harmonise processes, remove and demand.
our abilitytoimprove our duplication and adopt same ways of working behind the scenes with customers experience suppliers and in the back-office.
This will ensure that we have the right ofThomas Cook holidays.
products and services in place to grow and improve our customers experience across all markets.
Our strategy includes a focus on developing best in class ancillaries which will improve our customers holiday experience.
There has been significant investment into the refurbishment of ourhotel brands.
The Hotel Investment Fund will accelerate our focus on improving ourproduct portfolio.
We have made major investments within our Group airlines through cabin refurbishment, purchase ofnew aircraft and addition of newroutes.
Failure to achieve growth in our We have made significant investment in our One Web platform, which Flexible distribution model 3 digital distribution channel may has led to improvements in functionality and resulted in higher thatfullymeets the needs have an adverse impact on our conversion rates and online bookings.
market share, profitability and As part of our new operating model, the Omni-channel initiative will Aligned to customer future growth.
ensure a seamless digital experience for our customers both in stores technologyinnovation.
Our Group Ecommerce Team has regular dialogues with management within our source markets to maintain oversight and provide digitalsupport.
Our new Companion App allows our customers to obtain information about their holiday, manage payments, and book excursions while in-destination.
Failure to recruit or to retain Our performance management system was implemented in 2014 Employing the best people to 4 the right people at the right andtracks the performance and potential of all our employees.
continuously develop and evolve time will lead to a lack of Our high potential talent is identified and nurtured through an strategy and ensure ongoing capability or capacity to enable Executive Development programme and our Emerging Talent efficiency andoperation of the implementation of our programme is currently being developed.
Reward schemes are regularly evaluated to drive and reward performance and to ensure retention of key talent.
As part of succession planning, the top 130 positions have been assessed and 42 critical positions have been identified.
Our annual engagement survey allows us to assess employee motivation and commitment andidentify actions we need to implement to enable talent retention.
IT architecture is unable The first phase of our IT transformation has been successfully To develop a modern, future proof 5 to support theneeds of completed and the second phase is proceeding as planned.
Our simplified and automated service delivery process ensures requests from the business are addressed in atimely manner.
Weekly reviews between business unit IT Heads to prevent any ITissues across the business.
IT works closely with the business to ensure NUMO initiatives havetheappropriate level ofsupport.
Principal risk with a direct link to the viability statement.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 59 Principal risks Mitigation Opportunities Information security and cyber Our Information Security Steering Group has been established to To become thought leaders in 6 threats are currently a priority provide oversight of the cyber risk framework and ensure appropriate developing a strategy to combat across all industries and remain mitigations areinplace.
Our Security Improvement programme is underway andaims to provide The Group recognises that we the following mitigations: have high risk exposure in this Group Security Policies area and has added this as a Security Awareness Training new principal risk.
Detect and Respond Monitoring Service for websites, data centresand critical systems Vulnerability Management service to test website and systemsecurity A decision or a course of action As part of our risk management process, we identify all events that Promotion of the business and 7 is perceived negatively by the may have a potential reputational impact to the Group and ensure that enhancement of brand value media, investors and or general controls are in place to manage these risks.
public, which in turn impacts We have a clear plan in place to respond to the potential reputational the corporate reputation of the consequences of an event which includes close cooperation between Group and its share price.
investor relations, public relations, HR and legal teams to identify and prepare responses to incidents and potential issues.
The plan has beenstrengthened this year based on the lessons learnt during the Corfu Inquest.
We monitor stakeholder and governmental reactions to ensure we respond to emerging political and regulatory developments.
Cash generation limits the We proactively monitor our short, medium and long-term cash Sufficient cash to implement 8 ability to strategically manage requirements and liquidityheadroom.
debt repayment and or dividend Our cost-out and profit improvement initiatives are successfully payment.
We continue to monitor all opportunities to manage liquidity requirements and maintain anadequate level of contingency as well asseeking to lower the average cost of debt overthemedium term.
Due to the nature of its We operate a robust safety management system SMS to ensure the To provide class leading health and 9 business, the Group will implementation of our Health and Safety Policies and procedures.
safety programmes for the benefit always be exposed to a risk The Group Health, Safety, and Security team implement the SMS, ofour customers and employees.
ofa health and safety incident whichis further supported bya reputable external specialist SGS.
that may impact our customers The Group regularly reviews and updates its safety and security or colleagues together with training programmes to ensure they continue toreflect best practice.
associated reputational Our Health and Safety Audit programme, which is delivered by damage.
externalspecialists, measures standards and includes a clear escalation and decision process.
The programme also includes arobustfollow-up process.
The assessment of Health and Safety risks is inbuilt into daily management routines and is monitored by a structure of health and safety committees that are in turn overseen by a corporate Health, Safety & Environmental Committee with Board level oversight.
Thereport ofthe Health, Safety & Environmental Committee can befound on page 83.
Increasing security threats Our flexible business model allows us to align our committed capacity To deliver proactive capability to 10 and general socio political tofluctuating demand.
pre-emptively manage emerging uncertainties negatively impacting As part of our destination strategy, we continue to add new destinations geopolitical uncertainties.
our key markets and reduce to our portfolio, thereby mitigating the effect of factors which may the demand for travel related negatively impact demand for travel to certain regions.
We actively monitor the socio political landscape to ensure we have an early indication of emerging risk and are available to respond in anappropriate and timely manner.
We have a dedicated Crisis Management Team who have the requisite resource and skills to ensure that adequate emergency response is provided to ensure the welfare of our customers.
All of our senior management regularly participate in crisis managementscenarios.
Failure to comply with regulatory, We have a dedicated Legal Team to ensure full compliance with formal Instilling values and positively 11 legislative and corporate social regulatory requirements which monitors all current and emerging influencing all of our key responsibility requirements in the regulatory developments in our source markets.
legal jurisdictions where Thomas regular training to provide awareness of critical changes in relevant Cook operates.
Our Code of Conduct is backed by a comprehensive training programme to ensure that it is fully embedded across the Group.
Our Legal Risk Database enables communication and timely analysis of allrisks related to regulatory, legislative and corporate social responsibility requirements.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
