Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Group operates in markets and an industry which by their nature are subject to a number of inherent gross risks.
The Group is able to mitigate those risks by adopting different strategies and by maintaining a strong system of internal control.
However, regardless of the approach that is taken, the Group has to accept a certain level of risk in order to generate suitable returns for shareholders and for that reason the risk management process is closely aligned to the Groups strategy.
The Board has a risk reporting framework that ensures it The table on the following pages sets out, in no particular has visibility of the Groups key risks, the potential impacts order, the current principal risks that are considered by the on the Group and how and to what extent those risks Board to be material, their potential impacts and the factors are mitigated.
As part of its risk management process, that mitigate them.
The inherent risk before the operation the principal risks stated in the Groups risk register are of control is stated for each risk area together with an reviewed, challenged and updated by the Board and indication of the current trend for that risk.
Each operating business within the Group monitors aseparate risk register.
This risk register is used to determine strategies adopted by the Groups various businesses to mitigate the identified risks and are embedded in their operating plans.
Details of the Groups risk management processes are given in the Corporate Governance report on page 102.
The risk environment in which the Group operates does not remain static.
The nature of risk is that its scope and potential impact will change over time.
As such the list below should not be regarded as a comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties that may manifest themselves in the future.
Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to the Directors, or which they currently deem immaterial, could also have an adverse effect on the Groups future operating results, financial condition or prospects.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 65 STRATEGIC REPORT Inherent Risk and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation Market Conditions The Groups products are sold to businesses, tradesmen and retail customers for a broad range of Adverse effect on financial results.
The Board conducts an annual review of strategy, which includes an assessment of likely competitor activity, enduses in the built environment.
The Groups markets are cyclical in nature and the performance market forecasts and possible future trends in products, channels of distribution and customer behaviour.
Inherent Risk: of those markets is affected by general economic conditions and a number of specific drivers of The Group maintains a comprehensive tracking system for lead indicators that influence the market for the construction, RMI and DIY activity, including mortgage availability and affordability, housing transactions consumption of building materials in the UK.
and the timing and nature of government activity to stimulate activity, net disposable income, house Trend: price inflation, consumer confidence, interest rates and unemployment.
Significant events including those in the supply chain that may affect the Group are monitored by the Executive Committee and reported to the Board monthly by the Group CEO.
A significant downturn in economic conditions or alternatively major uncertainty about the future outlook could affect the Groups markets, levels of construction activity and the confidence levels of Should market conditions deteriorate then the Board has a range of options dependent upon the severity the Groups customers, which could reduce their propensity to purchase products and services from ofthe change.
Historically these have included amending the Groups trading stance, cost reduction, lowering the Groups businesses.
capital investment and cutting the dividend.
Competitive pressures place pressure on Market trends, particularly in respect of customers preferences for purchasing materials through Adverse effect on financial results.
Changes to market practice are tracked on an on-going basis and reported to the Board each month.
a range of supply channels and not just through the Groups traditional competitors may affect the prices, margins and profitability The Group is building multi-channel capabilities that complement its existing operations and provide its Groups performance so making traditional branch based operations less relevant or profitable.
customers with the opportunity to transact with the Group through channels that best suit their needs.
Inherent Risk: Increased price transparency could cause customers to perceive that the Group is less competitive Pricing strategies across the Group are regularly reviewed and where necessary refined to ensure they than some other competitors.
Public sector buying groups could reduce sales if public bodies chose to buy direct from manufacturers.
The development of new, innovative and competitive supply solutions is a key strength of the Group.
It works Disintermediation may become more of a threat if manufacturers decide to deal directly with end users.
closely with customers and suppliers on a programme of continuous improvement designed to improve its The Group faces the risk of new entrants to any of its markets, including from businesses currently customer proposition.
operating outside its industry or only in overseas markets.
The Groups strategy allows it to use sites flexibly.
Alternative space utilisation models are possible, including maintaining smaller stores and implanting additional services into existing branches.
Information technology capabilities impact The Group depends on a wide range of complex IT systems, both in terms of the availability of Adverse effect on financial results.
The strategic demands of the business, the resources available to IT, the performance levels of key systems hardware and the efficient and effective operation of software.
and IT security are kept under review by the Executive Committee.
the Groups ability to trade profitably Adverse effect on the Companys The rapid expansion of the Group together with an increasing demand for IT services, particularly as Plans that require continual investment in the IT infrastructure have been approved and are being Inherent Risk: reputation.
the Group embraces modern platforms such as multi-channel, updates its point of sale systems and implemented.
Maintenance is undertaken on an on-going basis to ensure the resilience of group systems, develops its supply chain capabilities, could result in development programmes being delayed or new with escalation procedures operating to ensure any performance issues are resolved at an early stage.
Trend: IT systems and change management systems not being successfully implemented.
The Groups two data centres mirror each other with data processing capable of being switched from one site Should a system become unavailable for an extended period either through deliberate act or through to the other.
An IT disaster recovery plan exists together with a business continuity plan.
Arrangements are in accidental failure it could impact the business ability to trade.
place for alternative data sites for both trade and consumer businesses.
Off-site back-up routines are in place.
Incidents of sophisticated cyber-crime represent a significant and increasing threat to all businesses The Group has a data security committee responsible for monitoring and maintaining cyber security.
A major breach of system security could result in disruption to systems and In addition a programme of risk oriented reviews is undertaken to ensure the level of control around IT or the theft and misuse of confidential data with consequential impacts on the Groups reputation or systems remains robust.
The Group has reacted to the increasing cyber threat by increasing the size of its team to deliver a comprehensive security architecture.
Investments in best of breed solutions have been made that continually adapt to mitigate the risk associated with the most advanced threats.
Furthermore, the Information Security team has the full support of senior management acting as an important gateway to ensure the development of new systems is performed according to industry standard security practices.
Colleague recruitment, retention and The ability to recruit, retain and motivate suitably qualified staff is an important driver of the Groups Inability to develop and execute The Groups employment policies and practices are kept under regular review.
succession plans do not deliver the required development and succession plans.
Staff engagement and turnover by job type is reported to the Executive Committee regularly and to the skills and experience The strength of the Groups customer proposition is underpinned by the quality of people working Board.
Succession plans are established for the most senior positions within the Group and these are Competitive disadvantage.
Many of them have worked for Travis Perkins for some considerable time, reviewed annually.
Inherent Risk: during which they have gained valuable knowledge and expertise.
The Groups reward and recognition systems are actively managed to ensure high levels of Trend: The Group faces competition for the best people from other organisations.
proper development of employees and the succession for key positions is important if the Group is not A wide-range of training programmes are in place to encourage staff development, whilst management to suffer an adverse effect on future prospects.
development programmes are available to those identified for more senior positions.
Salaries and other benefits are benchmarked regularly to ensure that the Group remains competitive and the Group operates incentive structures to ensure that high performing colleagues are adequately rewarded and retained.
Inherent risk: High Medium Low Trend: Increasing Static Reducing 66 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT Inherent Risk and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation Market Conditions The Groups products are sold to businesses, tradesmen and retail customers for a broad range of Adverse effect on financial results.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 67 STRATEGIC REPORT Inherent Risk and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation Supplier dependency could result in The Group is the largest customer to many of its suppliers.
In some cases, those suppliers are large Adverse effect on financial results.
The commercial and financial teams have established strong relationships with the Groups key suppliers shortages of product enough to cause significant supply difficulties to the Group if they are unable to meet their supply and work closely with them to ensure the continuity of quality materials.
obligations due to either economic or operational factors.
Inherent Risk: To spread the risk where possible contracts exist with more than one supplier for key products.
Alternative sourcing may be available, but the volumes required and the time it may take those The Group has made a significant investment in its Far East infrastructure to support its direct sourcing Trend: suppliers to increase production could result in significant stock-outs for some considerable time.
operation which allows the development of own brand products, thereby reducing the reliance on The Group has become more reliant on overseas factories producing products as the Group has brandedsuppliers.
rapidly expanded its direct sourcing capabilities.
This has increased the Groups exposure to sourcing, Comprehensive checks are undertaken on the factories producing products and the quality and the quality, trading, warranty and currency issues.
suitability of that product before it is shipped to the UK.
There is a potential for European anti-dumping legislation to be extended to encompass further Asian countries which could increase the cost of some imported products.
Defined benefit pension scheme funding The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding level in relation to its on-going Adverse effect on financial condition.
All of the Groups final salary pension schemes are closed to new members.
could increase significantly obligations to provide current and future pensions for members of its two defined benefit For the Travis Perkins scheme, pensionable salary inflation has been capped at 3% per annum.
Inherent Risk: The schemes investment policies are kept under regular review by the trustees in conjunction with the The level of contributions required from the Group to meet the benefits promised in the final salary Trend: Group to ensure asset portfolios produce the desired level of return within an acceptable risk profile.
schemes will vary depending upon the funding position of those schemes.
The Group has agreed deficit reduction payment plans for each of its defined benefit pension schemes The funding of pension obligations could increase due to a number of factors including poor with the Trustees of the schemes.
The repayment plans will remain in place until the next actuarial performance of the pension fund investments, falling corporate bond and gilt yields and increasing valuation when, in conjunction with the Scheme Trustees, they will be reassessed to take into account the longevity of pension scheme members.
In 2015 the Group agreed with the Trustees to align future member contributions more closely to the cost of the accrual and in so doing capping the current service contribution of the Group.
Notwithstanding this the Group remains exposed to movements in member longevity, the value of pension scheme investments and falling corporate bond and gilt rates.
Future expansion plans are not The Groups strategic plans are predicated on the continued expansion of its UK branch network and Adverse effect on financial results.
Responsibility for identifying and implementing opportunities to expand the Groups operations rests with implemented or do not achieve the desired the development of its supply chain capabilities.
each of the divisional boards, with capital being deployed to those projects giving the best return on capital.
sales and profit improvements and funding Large scale acquisitions in existing UK markets are unlikely due to the Groups size and the resulting The Group has identified a significant number of opportunities for expansion throughout the United Kingdom liquidity is unavailable concerns of the competition authorities to ensure competitive markets.
Therefore the Group will rely and continues to develop alternative trading formats that will open up additional opportunities in future.
Inherent Risk: on developing smaller scale opportunities, in new catchment areas or in new formats within existing The Group continues to invest in its leading supply chain infrastructure.
Its capabilities in this area allow it sites or on expanding into adjacent markets in which it does not have a presence.
Trend: to source directly from manufacturers, offer superior availability to customers and operate cost efficient The Group also needs to ensure that funding is available to support its plans.
The Group has been mechanisms to deliver products to customers when they most need them.
reliant on the banking market for funding, a market that has contracted in recent years and which may It is the responsibility of the treasury function to manage the Groups liquidity, funding availability and continue to contract in the future.
It established a bond issuance capability in 2014, but the availability treasury risk by reference to the policies and plans set out in the board approved funding strategy.
of funds from that market at a sensible cost may depend upon the Groups rating which can be affected by its trading performance.
Regular reporting of a series of key metrics is designed to monitor treasury activities and maintain opportunities to diversify sources and access suitable funding.
Business transformation projects fail to The Group is undertaking a large number of strategic projects throughout its business.
These projects Adverse effect on financial results.
All potentially significant projects are subject to detailed investigation, assessment and approval prior deliver the expected benefits, cost more or are intended to transform the Groups infrastructure and its information technology systems and to tocommencement.
take longer to implement than expected develop its supply chain operations and its branch and store networks.
Dedicated teams are allocated to each project, with additional expertise being brought into the Group Inherent Risk: By their nature, strategic projects are often complicated, interlinked and require considerable resource tosupplement existing resource when necessary.
As a result the expected benefits and the costs of implementation of each project All strategic projects are closely monitored by the Executive Committee with regular reporting to Trend: may deviate from those anticipated at their outset.
Plumbing and Heating business performance The market supplying boilers to large contract customers, served by the PTS business, is Adverse effect on financial results The re-segmentation of the P&H business has been completed and has established CPS as a business adversely affects Group returns highly competitive, offers low margins and certain manufacturers exercise a degree of control serving the needs of the jobbing plumber, with PTS business focussing on the contract customer.
Inherent Risk: Projects are underway to tailor branch processes in the PTS business to better meet the needs of contracting customers and improve the customer offer which should drive an increase in sales.
Competition in the plumbing and heating P&H markets remains intense, with margins being Trend: adversely affected and is likely to continue to be so for the foreseeable future.
The branch network of the F & P Primaflow business is going through a major rationalisation programme The provision of plumbing and heating product to the secondary P&H market, which is to better meet the needs of customers, whilst reducing costs.
undertaken by F & P, is becoming increasingly competitive.
Greater focus is being placed on cost control and the introduction of improved systems.
In addition further capital investment is being made in showrooms to boost sales in the more profitable Low margins, pressure on sales and a high fixed cost base mean the Plumbing & Heating CPSbusiness.
business profit could be more muted than some of the Groups other businesses.
Inherent risk: High Medium Low Trend: Increasing Static Reducing 68 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT Inherent Risk and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation Supplier dependency could result in The Group is the largest customer to many of its suppliers.
