Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Risk Management Structure and control The risk policy has been reviewed by In 2015, an additional meeting of the The Board is responsible for monitoring the Audit Committee and approved by Audit Committee took place focusing the risk management systems across the the Board specifically on risk management and what Company and reviewing their effectiveness.
enhancements should be made to Group Enhanced and more frequent risk Through a  process, processes to support Group compliance reporting has been implemented the Board receives reports from each with the new Code requirements.
In Risk scenario modelling has been of the businesses on their principal preparing for this, a benchmarking review carried out to test the robustness of risks and what steps they are taking in of our risk management processes was the organisation from the perspectives mitigation.
In carrying out its monitoring completed, as well as internal work to of liquidity and solvency activities, the Board is assisted by the compare our risk reporting framework Divisional risk presentations have Audit Committee which reviews the risk with that of other companies.
been made to the Audit Committee, management processes and procedures.
allowing the Committee to challenge The Executive Committee ExCo assesses In 2015, the Audit Committee received the identified risks and consider the all the operational and strategic risks facing presentations from the divisions on the risks associated mitigations the business on a routine basis with the they face and what steps they were taking support of the Group Risk function.
to mitigate these risks and this continues Business conduct policies reviewed, through 2016.
To date, risk presentations updated and launched across the Developments in risk management have been received from our Asia and Group supported by tailored employee in 2015 EMEA divisions.
e-learning and provision of an UBM has well-established processes independent, confidential reporting line and policies in place to support our for employees across the organisation operations worldwide.
Group Head of Health & Safety H&S was appointed and a H&S Group-wide In responding to the revised 2014 UK framework adopted, including Corporate Governance Code the Code, performance standards.
Regular in 2015, we completed a benchmarking reporting on progress to the Board review of our risk management processes.
Changes made in light of this review During the year, we brought the individual included more streamlined reporting compliance and regulatory functions and a focus on the material risks facing together, including Business Conduct, the business.
Legal, Data Privacy, Sustainability, Health & Safety and Risk & Insurance.
In this way, The following enhancements were the organisation benefits from the oversight implemented in 2015: of risk which this co-ordination allows and In light of the new Code requirements there is a more coordinated approach to the Audit Committee met in September risk management.
Within this consolidation, for the specific purpose of reviewing the a new Group Risk function has been existing risk management processes established, to support the businesses in to ensure that these were appropriate implementing the risk management and assurance processes across the Group.
The compliance and regulatory functions The Audit Committee receives regular have been consolidated to provide reports on the work of Group Risk.
greater cohesion and oversight of risks across the Group, including the establishment of a Group Risk function to support the businesses in implementing the risk management procedures UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Strategic Report Risk Management continued Risk management process The graphic below illustrates our approach to identifying and managing risk.
UBM employs both a top-down and a bottom-up approach.
Top-down review Risk management ExCo review the established risks and compare them with the UBM employs both a top-down and a existing and future characteristics bottom-up approach to identifying risk.
of our products, our services and our customers.
This analysis is presented to test the resilience of the business in relation to its Scenario planning solvency and liquidity.
Monitoring and strategy creation mitigation Adjusting strategic emphasis Strategic and operational consideration Audit Committee Risk analysis and and evaluation by Exco Board Bottom-up review review A full risk assessment and Risk management identification exercise is carried out twice a year.
The Group Risk function assists the divisions and business functions to analyse individual impacts and likelihoods.
Aggregation Business unit risk identification Monitoring and also captures similar risks globally.
and mitigation From a continuous improvement assessment exercise perspective, the risk function continues to critically assess the internal risk management and assurance processes.
Risk identification at both the top-down and bottom-up level follows a standard framework to assess impact and likelihood.
Risks are ranked in order to better direct resources to those more material risks.
Risks which reach a materiality threshold have specific mitigation plans in place to reduce or remove risk.
With a focus on continuous improvement, the biannual risk reviews critically assess the effectiveness of mitigation to minimise the impact.
Action plans might involve for example, practice of business continuity plans or investment in new technology.
34 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015
