OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS Our business is subject to risks and uncertainties.
On the following pages we have identified risks that we regard as the most relevant to our business.
These are the risks that we see as material to Unilevers business and performance at this time.
There may be other risks that could emerge in the future.
Further details of risks and mitigating factors can be found on pages 53 to 57. pages 53 to 57 of the Governance and Financial Report PRINCIPAL RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK BRAND PREFERENCE As a branded goods business, Consumer tastes, preferences and behaviours are constantly changing and Unilevers ability to Unilevers success depends on the anticipate and respond to these changes and to continue to differentiate our brands and products value and relevance of our brands is vital to our business.
and products to consumers around We are dependent on creating innovative products that continue to meet the needs of our consumers.
If the world and on our ability to we are unable to innovate effectively, Unilevers sales or margins could be materially adversely affected.
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Unilevers strategic investment Unilevers growth and profitability are determined by our portfolio of categories, geographies and choices will affect the long-term channels and how these evolve over time.
If Unilever does not make optimal strategic investment growth and profits of our business.
decisions then opportunities for growth and improved margin could be missed.
SUSTAINABILITY The success of our business Unilevers vision to accelerate growth in the business while reducing our environmental footprint and depends on finding increasing our positive social impact will require more sustainable ways of doing business.
This means sustainable solutions to reducing our environmental footprint while increasing the positive social benefits of Unilevers activities.
We are dependent on the efforts of partners and various certification bodies to achieve our sustainability goals.
There can be no assurance that sustainable business solutions will be developed and failure to do so could limit Unilevers growth and profit potential and damage our corporate reputation.
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Successful customer relationships Maintaining strong relationships with our existing customers and building relationships with new are vital to our business and customers who serve changing shopper habits are necessary to ensure our brands are well continued growth.
presented to our consumers and available for purchase at all times.
The strength of our customer relationships also affects our ability to obtain pricing and competitive trade terms.
Failure to maintain strong relationships with customers could negatively impact the terms of business with the affected customers and reduce the availability of our products to consumers.
TALENT & ORGANISATION A skilled workforce and agile Our ability to attract, develop, organise and retain the right number of appropriately qualified people organisation are essential for the is critical if we are to compete and grow effectively.
continued success of our business.
This is especially true in our key emerging markets where there can be a high level of competition for a limited talent pool.
The loss of management or other key personnel or the inability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel could make it difficult to manage the business and could adversely affect operations and financial results.
SUPPLY CHAIN Our business depends on Our supply chain network is exposed to potentially adverse events such as physical disruptions, purchasing materials, efficient environmental and industrial accidents or bankruptcy of a key supplier which could impact our manufacturing and the ability to deliver orders to our customers.
timely distribution of products The cost of our products can be significantly affected by the cost of the underlying commodities and to our customers.
materials from which they are made.
Fluctuations in these costs cannot always be passed on to the consumer through pricing.
SAFE AND HIGH QUALITY PRODUCTS The quality and safety of our The risk that raw materials are accidentally or maliciously contaminated throughout the supply products are of paramount chain or that other product defects occur due to human error, equipment failure or other factors importance for our brands and cannot be excluded.
SYSTEMS AND INFORMATION Unilevers operations are Increasing digital interactions with customers, suppliers and consumers place ever greater increasingly dependent on IT emphasis on the need for secure and reliable IT systems and infrastructure and careful systems and the management management of the information that is in our possession.
Disruption of our IT systems could inhibit our business operations in a number of ways, including disruption to sales, production and cash flows, ultimately impacting our results.
There is also a threat from unauthorised access and misuse of sensitive information.
Unilevers information systems could be subject to unauthorised access or the mistaken disclosure of information which disrupts Unilevers business and or leads to loss of assets.
40 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 PRINCIPAL RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION Successful execution of business Unilever is continually engaged in major change projects, including acquisitions and disposals transformation projects is key to and outsourcing, to drive continuous improvement in our business and to strengthen our portfolio delivering their intended business and capabilities.
benefits and avoiding disruption to Failure to execute such transactions or change projects successfully, or performance issues with other business activities.
third party outsourced providers on which we are dependent, could result in under-delivery of the expected benefits.
Furthermore, disruption may be caused in other parts of the business.
EXTERNAL ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL RISKS AND NATURAL DISASTERS Unilever operates around the Adverse economic conditions may result in reduced consumer demand for our products, and may globe and is exposed to a range of affect one or more countries within a region, or may extend globally.
external economic and political Government actions such as fiscal stimulus and price controls can impact on the growth and risks and natural disasters that profitability of our local operations.
may affect the execution of our strategy or the running of our Social and political upheavals and natural disasters can disrupt sales and operations.
In 2015, more than half of Unilevers turnover came from emerging markets including Brazil, India, Indonesia, Turkey, South Africa, China, Mexico and Russia.
These markets offer greater growth opportunities but also expose Unilever to related economic, political and social volatility.
TREASURY AND PENSIONS Unilever is exposed to a variety of The relative values of currencies can fluctuate widely and could have a significant impact on external financial risks in relation business results.
Further, because Unilever consolidates its financial statements in euros it is to Treasury and Pensions.
subject to exchange risks associated with the translation of the underlying net assets and earnings of its foreign subsidiaries.
We are also subject to the imposition of exchange controls by individual countries which could limit our ability to import materials paid in foreign currency or to remit dividends to the parent company.
Currency rates, along with demand cycles, can also result in significant swings in the prices of the raw materials needed to produce our goods.
Unilever may face liquidity risk, ie difficulty in meeting its obligations, associated with its financial liabilities.
A material and sustained shortfall in our cash flow could undermine Unilevers credit rating, impair investor confidence and also restrict Unilevers ability to raise funds.
We are exposed to market interest rate fluctuations on our floating rate debt.
Increases in benchmark interest rates could increase the interest cost of our floating rate debt and increase the cost of future borrowings.
In times of financial market volatility, we are also potentially exposed to counter-party risks with banks, suppliers and customers.
Certain businesses have defined benefit pension plans, most now closed to new employees, which are exposed to movements in interest rates, fluctuating values of underlying investments and increased life expectancy.
Changes in any or all of these inputs could potentially increase the cost to Unilever of funding the schemes and therefore have an adverse impact on profitability and cash flow.
ETHICAL Acting in an ethical manner, Unilevers brands and reputation are valuable assets and the way in which we operate, contribute to consistent with the expectations society and engage with the world around us is always under scrutiny both internally and externally.
of customers, consumers and Despite the commitment of Unilever to ethical business and the steps we take to adhere to this other stakeholders, is essential commitment, there remains a risk that activities or events cause us to fall short of our desired for the protection of the reputation standard, resulting in damage to Unilevers corporate reputation and business results.
of Unilever and its brands.
LEGAL AND REGULATORY Compliance with laws and Unilever is subject to national and regional laws and regulations in such diverse areas as product regulations is an essential part safety, product claims, trademarks, copyright, patents, competition, employee health and safety, of Unilevers business operations.
the environment, corporate governance, listing and disclosure, employment and taxes.
Failure to comply with laws and regulations could expose Unilever to civil and or criminal actions leading to damages, fines and criminal sanctions against us and or our employees with possible consequences for our corporate reputation.
Changes to laws and regulations could have a material impact on the cost of doing business.
Tax, in particular, is a complex area where laws and their interpretation are changing regularly, leading to the risk of unexpected tax exposures.
International tax reform remains a key focus of attention with the OECDs Base Erosion & Profit Shifting project and the EUs action plan for fair and efficient corporation taxation.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 41
