36 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties How we analyse and manage risk The business environment in which the Group operates presents a number of risks and uncertainties which continue to be the focus of the Boards attention.
Ultras approach to risk management and internal controls is designed to achieve the Groups business objectives whilst mitigating risk to within an acceptable risk appetite.
The Group has implemented mitigation strategies to manage the overall risk exposure in line with the Boards risk appetite.
Ultra encourages its businesses to challenge the market through innovation and to exhibit The Groups principal risks audacity.
Profitable growth cannot be are identified below and achieved without accepting some degree of on the following pages, considered risk.
Review of business activity and the management of risk is an integral together with: part of Ultras processes.
Risks are considered A description of the risk and its and managed as business decisions are made, potential impacts.
then collated so that the Groups collective Examples of the current controls exposure is well understood and controlled.
The implementation of a revised Risk An indication of the direction of A programme of Management Framework in 2015 see pages travel of the risk exposure and, 61 and 62 resulted in a refresh of Ultras continuous monitoring where relevant, an indication of principal risks.
This has had a direct impact the rationale for this.
on the risks disclosed in this Annual Report and reporting has been and Accounts in that previously reported risks have been separated out to provide more undertaken to ensure 01.
Strategy and market environment granularity, and other risks have been escalated to principal risks status.
The Ultras risk profile reflects 02.
Contract win delivery development of the revised Risk Management the current risk exposure Framework was undertaken with engagement 03.
Delivering change from the Executive Team, the Audit Committee and improvements in and the Board to ensure a robust assessment 04.
Acquisitions of the principal risks facing Ultra, including control activity.
Intellectual property those that would threaten its business model, information security future performance, solvency and liquidity.
A programme of continuous monitoring and 06.
Innovation and development reporting as outlined in the Risk Management Framework has been undertaken to ensure 07.
People Ultras risk profile reflects the current risk 08.
Culture exposure and improvements in management activity.
Supply chain The Board has developed risk appetite 10.
Legislation regulation statements against each of the principal risks, clearly setting out the Boards perspective on 11.
Governance and internal control its willingness to accept risk in pursuance of its strategic objective to outperform the 12.
Health, safety and environment market in terms of annual increases in shareholder return see page 10.
Pensions addition, metrics have been established to 14.
Treasury and tax support the Boards ability to identify when its tolerance for risk is being reached.
newly reported principal risks Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal risks Risk 01.
Strategy and market environment Trend: No significant change Description Potential impacts: Mitigations examples : Ultras core markets continually change as Reduced business opportunity through an Cleary dened and consistently applied government budgets come under fiscal inability to adapt our offerings and approach approach for setting strategies for each of strain and or geopolitical events affect the quickly enough the eight segments see page 12 Groups operations.
Inability to match the full range of customer Dedicated Regional Marketing Directors Understanding and effectively responding to requirements focused on creating local networks, these changing market dynamics is key to understanding the market and Loss of market share delivering future organic growth.
culture procurement regime LAUNCH principles embedded to understand customers requirements see page 45 Ultra has a diversied portfolio of businesses that mitigates exposure Risk 02.
Contract win delivery Trend: No significant change Description Potential impacts: Mitigations examples : Underpinning the overall success of the Group Customer dissatisfaction and reputational The Group Operating Manual sets out the is its ability to win new business and manage damage policies and procedures for major bids deliver against contracted customer Loss of future order book opportunities The monthly review process of the Business commitments on budget, on time and to the Performance Reports provides oversight and Ultra may need to provide for unrecoverable agreed quality.
challenge on the order book and delivery additional costs incurred until the end of a status of significant contracts programme Commercial Directors support their Divisional Contract disputes litigation Directors in reviewing major bids and assist collaboration across the divisions A country risk assessment process has been implemented to evaluate jurisdictional contracting risks Risk 03.
Delivering change Trend: Escalated to a principal risk Description Potential impacts: Mitigations examples : Effective delivery of major change programmes Identied benets of change not realised All major change programmes are monitored with minimal effect on business as usual BAU on a monthly basis by the Board significant increase in change programme costs is a key component of Ultras continual An Executive Team sponsor for all major Senior management distraction from BAU programme of operational improvement.
change programmes Reduction in employee morale The introduction of two major change Recruitment of specialists in designing programmes in the year market-facing and delivering change programmes to segment strategies see page 12 and S3 see support delivery page 5 resulted in the escalation of this to a Employee communication and engagement principal risk.
Introduction 38 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks continued Risk 04.
Acquisitions Trend: Escalated to a principal risk Description Potential impacts: Mitigations examples : The Group continues to look at acquisitions to Destruction of value through overpayment The Group acquisition process and procedures add capabilities, market access and critical for acquisitions are led by the M&A Director and include due mass.
The effective selection, due diligence diligence, the use of professional advisors and Non-delivery of synergies and or economies and or integration of acquisitions is critical to appropriate and enforceable representations of scale making this a success.
and warranties Senior management focus diverted away from The acquisition of the Electronic Products Detailed post-acquisition integration plans are delivering BAU Division of Kratos Defense & Security in place and led by an Executive Team sponsor Solutions was the largest the Group has Formal two and five-year post-acquisition done, which resulted in the escalation of this reviews are undertaken by the Board to a principal risk.
Medium-term integration milestones and plans are reported quarterly to the Executive Team Risk 05.
Intellectual property information security Trend: No significant change Description Potential impacts: Mitigations examples : The Groups information systems, personnel Reputational damage to Ultra as a highly Dedicated Cyber Protection Group CPG and facilities are subject to security risks.
The regarded provider of secure data systems providing Group-wide monitoring, incident incidence and sophistication of cyber security response and continued enhancement of Ultras Loss of business opportunity with removal of crime is on the rise.
Breach of security could IT systems and processes government approval to work on classied cause controlled or critical data to be lost, programmes Security clearance process for all employees made inaccessible, corrupted or be accessed Reduced product differentiation with loss of The Group Information Security policy classies by unauthorised users.
intellectual property all information assets Disruption to business activity as systems are Established physical security processes cleansed and restored implemented at all sites Training provided on IP awareness, IP management and IP exploitation Over the last three years Ultra Electronics from a UK base, the CPG uses advanced has made a significant investment in and often uniquely designed software internal cyber defence to ensure that the techniques to remotely monitor and protect Groups sensitive information is all of the Groups network operations at appropriately secured against the increasing sites in several different countries.
The CPG threats that are taking advantage of the is led by senior network security specialists internet as an attack-vector.
The Ultra with long experience from highly sensitive Cyber Protection Group CPG provides national and multinational organisations, comprehensive pro-active defence using supported by some very carefully selected advanced techniques to prevent, detect and and highly capable graduates.
Operating Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk 06.
Innovation and development Trend: Increased risk Description Potential impacts: Mitigations examples : Ultra must continue to distinguish itself from Loss of key customers A culture that focusses on ensuring a its competitors through product and service deep understanding of customer need significant loss of revenue, profits and or innovation development.
This needs to and delivering innovation market share address changing customer preferences and Market and competitor analysis to support Ultras portfolio of specialist capabilities is deliver  solutions.
technology and product roadmaps eroded through commoditisation The market conditions throughout the year Segment focussed R&D prioritisation to avoid have continued to have a direct impact on the duplication and maximise advantage availability of customer funding for new product development.
People Trend: No significant change Description Potential impacts: Mitigations examples : Attracting, developing and retaining the right Ultra could lose key staff or capabilities and Clearly dened and implemented recruitment people who embrace and sustain Ultras be unable to full its contractual obligations processes culture, and who have the domain expertise is Reduction in staff morale results in a rise of Annual Organisation, Succession and critical to delivering the Groups strategy and employee related issues e. g. grievances Development Process business plan.
and sickness The Chief Executive meets high potential Talent within the business is not developed to employees to assess performance, skills and its full potential competencies first-hand Quarterly review by the Executive Team and annual review by the Nomination Committee of the succession planning and career progression of senior employees Engagement with potential recruits at an early stage through links with schools and universities by offering apprenticeships, work placements and graduate training see page 46 Monitoring and reviewing salary and benets surveys Risk 08.
Culture Trend: Escalated to a principal risk Description Potential impacts: Mitigations examples : The preservation of Ultras culture innovation, Reduction in the quality and consistency of Delivery and follow-up analysis of the agility and accountability as the Group service delivery to customers YOURviews employee survey which is expands through organic growth, natural staff reviewed annually by the Board Reduction in staff morale results in a rise turnover and acquisitions is a key driver for of employee related issues e. g. grievances Implementation of LEAP and LAUNCH future success.
and sickness behaviours across the Group In 2015, the Group completed its largest Loss of high potential employees Group culture expectations is a key part of acquisition Ultra Electronics Herley : the HR induction process introduced a new market segment structure: Culture transition requirements are included and launched S3.
Preserving Ultras culture in as part of the formal integration plans for all light of this has resulted in the escalation of new acquisitions this to a principal risk.
Introduction 40 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks continued Risk 09.
Supply chain Trend: Escalated to a principal risk Description Potential impacts: Mitigations examples : The Group places significant reliance on key Failure to deliver against customer commitments Pre-contract audits of key suppliers and suppliers sub-contractors for the delivery of its sub-contractors and continuing review of significant product quality defect customer commitments and therefore, there is their performance a need to ensure the continuing effectiveness Business continuity and disaster recovery plans of the supply chain.
The Groups manufacturing are in place and tested facilities are exposed to natural catastrophe Single-source supplier risks are identied risks and the Group is affected by the social, through risk management process and, where economic, regulatory and political conditions in possible, key materials or components are the countries in which it operates.
dual-sourced Continued funding pressures on US and UK The Group has business interruption, property defence procurement programmes has led to damage and product liability insurance increasing demands for improved efficiency in the supply chain.
This has resulted in the escalation of this to a principal risk.
Legislation regulation Trend: No significant change Description Potential impacts: Mitigations examples : The Group operates in a highly-regulated Debarment from government contracts Implementation of the Group Operating environment across many jurisdictions and is Manual that sets out policies and procedures Regulatory fines and or penalties subject to regulatory and legislative for legislative and regulatory requirements and Legal disputes requirements.
There is a risk that the Group compliance training Reputational damage may not always be in complete compliance Monthly compliance reporting with laws, regulations or permits.
Ethics Overview Committee see page 49 Effective whistle blowing procedures EthicsPoint see page 49 Risk 11.
Governance and internal control Trend: Escalated to a principal risk Description Potential impacts: Mitigations examples : Maintaining corporate governance standards significant financial loss e. g. fraud, theft, Implementation of the Group Operating and an effective and efficient risk management material errors Manual as the overall policy and procedures and internal control system is critical to framework Loss of investor confidence supporting the delivery of the Group strategy.
Effective internal controls and Risk Loss of business opportunity with removal As a result of the re-fresh of the principal risks Management Framework of government approval to work on classied in 2015, governance and internal control has programmes Year end disclosures by the businesses on the been separated out from the legislation effectiveness of accounting and internal regulation risk to provide greater granularity control systems and to reect the continued focus of the Board Terms of reference for Board and Committees in this area.
This has resulted in the escalation are reviewed and updated annually of this to a principal risk.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk 12.
Health, safety and environment Trend: Escalated to a principal risk Description Potential impacts: Mitigations examples : A continued focus on: ensuring high standards Harm to peoples well-being Annual self-assessment of health, safety and of health and safety of employees and visitors: environment by each business and bi-annual Serious business interruption and maintaining our commitment to minimise external health, safety and environment audit Reputational damage the environmental impact of our activities is of for each business paramount importance to support the Quarterly review of health, safety and achievement of Ultras business objectives.
environment by the Executive Team and As a result of the refresh of the principal risks in annual review by the Board 2015, health, safety and environment has been separated out from the legislation regulation risk to provide greater granularity and to reect the continued focus of the Board in this area see page 50.
Pensions Trend: Decreased risk Description Potential impacts: Mitigations examples : The Groups UK dened benefit pension Any increase in the deficit may require The Groups UK dened benefit pension scheme needs to be managed to ensure it additional cash contributions and therefore scheme is closed to new members does not become a serious liability for the reduce the available cash for the Group Formal annual reviews of the Group pension Group.
There are a number of factors strategy by the Board including investment returns, long-term Annual accounting and triennial valuation interest rate and price ination expectations, processes in order to highlight issues to the and anticipated members longevity that can Board as they emerge increase the liabilities of the scheme.
Appointment of Willis Towers Watson as the The planned closure of the Groups UK Groups pension strategy advisors dened benefit pension scheme will contribute to reducing the overall risk exposure see page 26.
Treasury and tax Trend: No significant change Description Potential impacts: Mitigations examples : Operating across a number of countries adds Ultras revenue and earnings could be adversely The translation impact cannot be mitigated: complexity to managing currency exchange impacted by the weakening of a currency in however, the Group Finance Director rate and interest rate uctuations that can which it generates sales ensures that analysts and investors are aware directly impact on Ultras business performance.
of the impact The impact of foreign exchange could either be As for all companies, Ultra is exposed to through translation of the balance sheets and Transaction impact is mitigated through the changing tax legislation in the territories in profits of foreign operations or UK businesses Treasury policy of hedging forecast cash ows which it operates including as an international transacting in a foreign currency and, where possible, through ensuring that business, changes that may arise due to local contracts provide protection against exchange legislation arising from the OECDs current Base movements, and cost and revenue currencies Erosion and profit Shifting project.
are matched Ultra is committed to complying fully with the laws in the countries in which it operates from a tax perspective.
It seeks to achieve a competitive tax rate by maintaining established nancing structures where appropriate.
We manage these risks by monitoring international developments, participating in pro-legislative consultations where appropriate and adapting our approach where necessary and practical 6.
