RISKS OUR RISK APPETITE AND PROCESSES Unilever operates a wide range of processes and activities across all APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT its operations covering strategy, planning, execution and performance Risk management is integral to Unilevers strategy and to the management.
Risk management is integrated into every stage of this achievement of Unilevers long-term goals.
Our success as an business cycle.
These procedures are formalised and documented organisation depends on our ability to identify and exploit the and are increasingly being centralised and automated into opportunities generated by our business and the markets we transactional and other information technology systems.
In doing this we take an embedded approach to risk management which puts risk and opportunity assessment ASSURANCE AND RE-ASSURANCE at the core of the leadership team agenda, which is where Assurance on compliance with the Code of Business Principles we believe it should be.
and all of our Code Policies is obtained annually from Unilever management via a formal Code declaration.
In addition, there Unilever adopts a risk profile that is aligned to our vision to are specialist compliance programmes which run during the year accelerate growth in the business while reducing our and vary depending on thebusiness priorities.
These specialist environmental footprint and increasing our positive social impact.
compliance programmes supplement the Code declaration.
Our available capital and other resources are applied to underpin Our Corporate Audit function plays a vital role in providing to both our priorities.
We aim to maintain a strong single A credit rating management and the Boards an objective and independent review on a long-term basis.
of the effectiveness of risk management and internal control Our approach to risk management is designed to provide systems throughout Unilever.
reasonable, but notabsolute, assurance that our assets are safeguarded, the risks facing the business are being assessed and mitigated and all information that may be required to be disclosed is reported toUnilevers senior management including, where BOARDS ASSESSMENT OF COMPLIANCE appropriate, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
WITH THE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORKS The Boards, advised by the Committees where appropriate, ORGANISATION regularly review the significant risks and decisions that could have The Unilever Boards assume overall accountability for the a material impact on Unilever.
These reviews consider the level of management of risk and for reviewing the effectiveness of risk that Unilever is prepared to take in pursuit of the business Unilevers risk management and internal control systems.
strategy and the effectiveness of the management controls in The Boards have established a clear organisational structure place to mitigate the risk exposure.
withwell defined accountabilities for the principal risks that The Boards, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the Unilever faces in the short, medium and long term.
This assessment of risks, internal controls and disclosure controls and organisational structure and distribution of accountabilities procedures in operation within Unilever.
They have also considered and responsibilities ensures that every country in which we the effectiveness of any remedial actions taken for the year covered operate has specific resources and processes for risk review by this report and up to the date of its approval by the Boards.
This is supported by the Unilever Leadership Executive, which takes active responsibility for focusing on the Details of the activities of the Audit Committee in relation to principal areas of risk to Unilever.
The Boards regularly review this can be found in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages these risk areas, including consideration of environmental, social 60 and 61. and governance matters, and retain responsibility for determining Further statements on compliance with the specific risk the nature and extent of the significant risks that Unilever is management and control requirements in the Dutch Corporate prepared to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
Governance Code, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the US Securities Exchange Act 1934 and the Sarbanes-Oxley 2002 FOUNDATION AND PRINCIPLES Act can be found on pages 50, 51 and 52.
Unilevers approach to doing business is framed by our Purpose.
Our Code of Business Principles sets out the standards of behaviour that we expect all employees to adhere to.
Day-to-day responsibility for ensuring these principles are applied throughout VIABILITY STATEMENT Unilever rests with senior management across categories, geographies and functions.
A network of Business Integrity The activities of the Group, together with the factors likely to affect Officers and Committees supports the activities necessary to its future development, performance, the financial position of the communicate the Code, deliver training, maintain processes and Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are procedures including support lines to report and respond to described in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 39.
In addition, we alleged breaches, and to capture and communicate learnings.
describe in notes 15 to 18 on pages 115 to 129 the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its We have a framework of Code Policies that underpin the Code financial risk management objectives, details of its financial of Business Principles and set out the non-negotiable standards instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit of behaviour expected from all our employees.
For each of our principal risks we have a risk management The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the framework detailing the controls we have in place and who is principal risks facing the Group, including those that would responsible for both managing the overall risk and the individual threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or controls mitigating that risk.
These risks and the ways they are being managed and Unilevers functional standards define mandatory requirements mitigated by a wide range of actions are summarised on pages across a range of specialist areas such as health and safety, 54 to 57. accounting and reporting and financial risk management.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance 53 RISKS CONTINUED Taking account of the Groups position and principal risks, the PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS Directors assess the prospects of the Group by reviewing and Our business is subject to risks and uncertainties.
On the following discussing at least once each year the annual forecast, the pages we have identified the risks that we regard as the most three-year strategic plan and the Group risk framework.
These are the risks that we see as most Throughout the year the Directors review and discuss the potential material to Unilevers business and performance at this time.
impact of each principal risk as well as the risk impact of any There may be other risks that could emerge in the future.
We have major events or transactions.
A three-year period is considered also commented below on certain mitigating actions that we appropriate for this assessment because: believe help us to manage these risks.
However, we may not be it is the period covered by the strategic plan: and successful in deploying some or all of these mitigating actions.
it enables a high level of confidence, even in extreme adverse If the circumstances in these risks occur or are not successfully events, due to a number of factors such as: mitigated, our cash flow, operating results, financial position, the Group has considerable financial resources together business and reputation could be materially adversely affected.
with established business relationships with many In addition, risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to customers and suppliers in countries throughout the world: vary from those described, which may include forward-looking high cash generation by the Groups operations: statements, or could impact on our ability to meet our targets or flexibility of cash outflow including significant marketing be detrimental to our profitability or reputation.
and capital expenditure: and the Groups diverse product and geographical operations.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK BRAND PREFERENCE As a branded goods business, Unilevers success depends We continuously monitor external market trends and collate on the value and relevance of our brands and products to consumer, customer and shopper insight in order to develop consumers around the world and on our ability to innovate category and brand strategies.
Our strategy focuses on investing in markets and segments which Consumer tastes, preferences and behaviours are constantly we identify as attractive because we have already built, or are changing and Unilevers ability to anticipate and respond to these confident that we can build, competitive advantage.
changes and to continue to differentiate our brands and products Our Research and Development function actively searches for ways is vital to our business.
in which to translate the trends in consumer preference and taste We are dependent on creating innovative products that continue into new technologies for incorporation into future products.
to meet the needs of our consumers.
If we are unable to innovate Our innovation management process deploys tools, technologies and effectively, Unilevers sales or margins could be materially resources to convert category strategies into projects and category adversely affected.
plans, develop products and relevant brand communication and successfully roll out new products to our consumers.
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Unilevers strategic investment choices will affect the long-term Our Compass strategy and our business plans are designed to growth and profits of our business.
ensure that resources are prioritised towards those categories and markets having the greatest long-term potential for Unilever.
Unilevers growth and profitability are determined by our portfolio of categories, geographies and channels and how these evolve Our acquisition activity is driven by our portfolio strategy with over time.
If Unilever does not make optimal strategic investment a clear, defined evaluation process.
decisions then opportunities for growth and improved margin could be missed.
SUSTAINABILITY The success of our business depends on finding sustainable The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan sets clear long-term solutions to support long-term growth.
commitments to improve health and well-being, reduce environmental impact and enhance livelihoods.
Underpinning Unilevers vision to accelerate growth in the business while these are targets in areas such as hygiene, nutrition, sustainable reducing our environmental footprint and increasing our positive sourcing, fairness in the workplace, opportunities for women and social impact will require more sustainable ways of doing business.
inclusive business as well as greenhouse gas emissions, water and This means reducing our environmental footprint while increasing waste.
These targets and more sustainable ways of operating are the positive social benefits of Unilevers activities.
We are being integrated into Unilevers day-to-day business.
dependent on the efforts of partners and various certification bodies to achieve our sustainability goals.
There can be no Progress towards the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan is assurance that sustainable business solutions will be developed monitored by the Unilever Leadership Executive and the Boards.
and failure to do so could limit Unilevers growth and profit potential The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Council, comprising six and damage our corporate reputation.
external specialists in sustainability, guides and critiques the development of our strategy.
54 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Successful customer relationships are vital to our business and We build and maintain trading relationships across a broad continued growth.
spectrum of channels ranging from centrally managed multinational customers through to small traders accessed Maintaining strong relationships with our existing customers and via distributors in many developing countries.
We identify changing building relationships with new customers who serve changing shopper habits and build relationships with new customers, such as shopper habits are necessary to ensure our brands are well those serving the e-commerce channel.
presented to our consumers and available for purchase at all times.
We develop joint business plans with our key customers that The strength of our customer relationships also affects our ability include detailed investment plans and customer service objectives to obtain pricing and competitive trade terms.
Failure to maintain and we regularly monitor progress.
strong relationships with customers could negatively impact the terms of business with the affected customers and reduce the We have developed capabilities for customer sales and outlet availability of our products to consumers.
design which enable us to find new ways to improve customer performance and enhance our customer relationships.
We invest in technology to optimise order and stock management processes for our distributive trade customers.
TALENT & ORGANISATION A skilled workforce and agile organisation are essential for the Resource committees have been established and implemented continued success of our business.
These committees have responsibility for identifying future skills and capability needs, developing career Our ability to attract, develop, organise and retain the right number paths and identifying the key talent and leaders of the future.
of appropriately qualified people is critical if we are to compete and grow effectively.
We have an integrated management development process which includes regular performance reviews underpinned by a common This is especially true in our key emerging markets where there set of leadership behaviours, skills and competencies.
can be a high level of competition for a limited talent pool.
The loss of management or other key personnel or the inability to identify, We have targeted programmes to attract and retain top talent attract and retain qualified personnel could make it difficult to and we actively monitor our performance in retaining talent manage the business and could adversely affect operations and within Unilever.
We regularly review our ways of working and organisation structures to ensure that we drive speed and simplicity through our business to remain agile and responsive to marketplace trends.
SUPPLY CHAIN Our business depends on purchasing materials, efficient We have contingency plans designed to enable us to secure manufacturing and the timely distribution of products alternative key material supplies at short notice, to transfer to our customers.
or share production between manufacturing sites and to use substitute materials in our product formulations and recipes.
Our supply chain network is exposed topotentially adverse events such as physical disruptions, environmental and industrial These contingency plans also extend to an ability to intervene accidents or bankruptcy of a key supplier which could impact directly to support a key supplier should it for any reason find itself our ability to deliver orders to our customers.
in difficulty or be at risk of negatively affecting a Unilever product.
The cost of our products can be significantly affected by the cost We have policies and procedures designed to ensure the health of the underlying commodities and materials from which they and safety ofour employees and the products in our facilities, and are made.
Fluctuations in these costs cannot always be passed to deal withmajor incidents including business continuity and on to the consumer through pricing.
Commodity price risk is actively managed through forward buying oftraded commodities and other hedging mechanisms.
Trends are monitored and modelled regularly and integrated into our forecasting process.
SAFE AND HIGH QUALITY PRODUCTS The quality and safety of our products are of paramount Our product quality processes and controls are comprehensive, importance for our brands and our reputation.
from product design to customer shelf.
They are verified annually, and regularly monitored through performance indicators that drive The risk that raw materials are accidentally or maliciously continuous improvement activities.
Our key suppliers are externally contaminated throughout the supply chain or that other product certified and the quality of material received is regularly monitored defects occur due to human error, equipment failure or other to ensure that it meets the rigorous quality standards that our factors cannot be excluded.
In the event of an incident relating to the safety of our consumers or the quality of our products, incident management teams are activated in the affected markets under the direction of our product quality, science, and communications experts, to ensure timely and effective market place action.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance 55 RISKS CONTINUED DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK SYSTEMS AND INFORMATION Unilevers operations are increasingly dependent on IT systems Hardware that runs and manages core operating data is fully and the management of information.
backed up with separate contingency systems to provide real time back-up operations should they ever be required.
Increasing digital interactions with customers, suppliers and consumers place ever greater emphasis on the need for secure and We maintain a global system for the control and reporting of reliable IT systems and infrastructure and careful management of access to our critical IT systems.
This is supported by an annual the information that is in our possession.
programme of testing of access controls.
Disruption of our IT systems could inhibit our business operations We have policies covering the protection of both business in a number of ways, including disruption to sales, production and and personal information, as well as the use of IT systems and cash flows, ultimately impacting our results.
Our employees are trained to understand these requirements.
There is also a threat from unauthorised access and misuse of sensitive information.
Unilevers information systems could be We have standardised ways of hosting information on our subject to unauthorised access or the mistaken disclosure of public websites and have systems in place to monitor compliance information which disrupts Unilevers business and or leads to with appropriate privacy laws and regulations, and with our loss of assets.
BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION Successful execution of business transformation projects is All acquisitions, disposals and global restructuring projects key to delivering their intended business benefits and avoiding are sponsored by a member of the Unilever Leadership Executive.
disruption to other business activities.
Regular progress updates are provided to the Unilever Leadership Executive.
Unilever is continually engaged in major change projects, including acquisitions and disposals and outsourcing, to drive continuous Sound project disciplines are used in all merger, acquisitions, improvement in our business and to strengthen our portfolio restructuring and outsourcing projects and these projects are and capabilities.
resourced by dedicated and appropriately qualified personnel.
The performance of third party outsourced providers is kept under Failure to execute such transactions or change projects constant review, with potential disruption limited to the time and successfully, or performance issues with third party outsourced cost required to install alternative providers.
providers on which we are dependent, could result in underdelivery of the expected benefits.
Furthermore, disruption may Unilever also monitors the volume of change programmes under be caused in other parts of the business.
way in an effort to stagger the impact on current operations and to ensure minimal disruption.
EXTERNAL ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL RISKS AND NATURAL DISASTERS Unilever operates around the globe and is exposed to a range The breadth of Unilevers portfolio and our geographic reach of external economic and political risks and natural disasters help to mitigate our exposure to any particular localised risk that may affect the execution of our strategy or the running of to an extent.
Our flexible business model allows us to adapt our operations.
our portfolio and respond quickly to develop new offerings that suit consumers and customers changing needs during Adverse economic conditions may result in reduced consumer economic downturns.
demand for our products, and may affect one or more countries within a region, or may extend globally.
We regularly update our forecast of business results and cash flows and, where necessary, rebalance investment priorities.
Government actions such as fiscal stimulus and price controls can impact on the growth and profitability of our local operations.
We have continuity planning designed to deal with crisis management in the event of political and social events and Social and political upheavals and natural disasters can disrupt natural disasters.
We believe that many years of exposure to emerging markets In 2015, more than half of Unilevers turnover came from emerging have given us experience of operating and developing our business markets including Brazil, India, Indonesia, Turkey, South Africa, successfully during periods of economic, political or social change.
These markets offer greater growth opportunities but also expose Unilever to related economic, political and social volatility.
TREASURY AND PENSIONS Unilever is exposed to a variety of external financial risks in Currency exposures are managed within prescribed limits and by relation to Treasury and Pensions.
theuse of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Further, operating companies borrow in local currency except where inhibited by The relative values of currencies can fluctuate widely andcould local regulations, lack of local liquidity or local market conditions.
have a significant impact on business results.
Further, because We also hedge some of our exposures through the use of foreign Unilever consolidates its financial statements in euros it issubject currency borrowing or forward exchange contracts.
to exchange risks associated with the translation of the underlying net assets and earnings of its foreign subsidiaries.
56 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK TREASURY AND PENSIONS CONTINUED We are also subject to the imposition of exchange controls by Our interest rate management approach aims to achieve an optimal individual countries which could limit our ability to import materials balance between fixed and floating rate interest exposures on paid in foreign currency or to remit dividends to the parent company.
Currency rates, along with demand cycles, can also result in We seek to manage our liquidity requirements by maintaining significant swings in the prices of the raw materials needed accessto global debt markets through short-term and long-term to produce our goods.
In addition, we have high committed credit facilities for general corporate purposes.
Unilever may face liquidity risk, ie difficulty in meeting its obligations, associated with its financial liabilities.
A material and sustained Group treasury regularly monitors exposure to our banks, tightening shortfall in our cash flow could undermine Unilevers credit rating, counter-party limits where appropriate.
Unilever actively manages impair investor confidence and also restrict Unilevers ability to raise its banking exposures on a daily basis.
We regularly assess and monitor counter-party risk in our We are exposed to market interest rate fluctuations on our floating customers and take appropriate action to manage our exposures.
Increases in benchmark interest rates could increase Our pension investment standards require us to invest across the interest cost of our floating rate debt and increase the cost a range of equities, bonds, property, alternative assets and cash of future borrowings.
such that the failure of any single investment will not have a In times of financial market volatility, we are also potentially exposed material impact on the overall value of assets.
to counter-party risks with banks, suppliers and customers.
The majority of our assets, including those held in our pooled Certain businesses have defined benefit pension plans, most now investment vehicle, Univest, are managed by external fund closed to new employees, which are exposed to movements in managers and are regularly monitored by pension trustees interest rates, fluctuating values of underlying investments and and central pensions and investment teams.
Changes in any or all of these inputs Further information on financial instruments and capital and could potentially increase the cost to Unilever of funding the treasury risk management is included in note 16 on pages schemes and therefore have an adverse impact on profitability 120 to 125. and cash flow.
ETHICAL Acting in an ethical manner, consistent with the expectations Our Code of Business Principles and our Code Policies govern the of customers, consumers and other stakeholders, is essential behaviour of our employees, suppliers, distributors and other third for the protection of the reputation of Unilever and its brands.
Unilevers brands and reputation are valuable assets and the Our processes for identifying and resolving breaches of our Code of way in which we operate, contribute to society and engage with Business Principles and our Code Policies are clearly defined and the world around us is always under scrutiny both internally regularly communicated throughout Unilever.
Data relating to such and externally.
Despite the commitment of Unilever to ethical breaches is reviewed by the Unilever Leadership Executive and by business and the steps we take to adhere to this commitment, relevant Board committees and helps to determine the allocation there remains a risk that activities or events cause us to fall of resources for future policy development, process improvement, short of our desired standard, resulting in damage to Unilevers training and awareness initiatives.
corporate reputation and business results.
LEGAL AND REGULATORY Compliance with laws and regulations is an essential part Unilever is committed to complying with the laws and regulations of Unilevers business operations.
of the countries in which we operate.
In specialist areas the relevant teams at global, regional or local levels are responsible for setting Unilever is subject to national and regional laws and regulations in detailed standards and ensuring that all employees are aware of and such diverse areas as product safety, product claims, trademarks, comply with regulations and laws specific and relevant to their roles.
copyright, patents, competition, employee health and safety, the environment, corporate governance, listing and disclosure, Our legal and regulatory specialists are heavily involved in employment and taxes.
monitoring and reviewing our practices to provide reasonable assurance that we remain aware of and in line with all relevant Failure to comply with laws and regulations could expose Unilever laws and legal obligations.
to civil and or criminal actions leading to damages, fines and criminal sanctions against us and or our employees with possible Our Global Tax Principles provide overarching governance and we consequences for our corporate reputation.
have a Tax Risk Framework in place which sets out the controls established to assess and monitor tax risk for direct and indirect Changes to laws and regulations could have a material impact on taxes.
We monitor proposed changes in taxation legislation and the cost of doing business.
Tax, in particular, is a complex area ensure these are taken into account when we consider our future where laws and their interpretation are changing regularly, leading business plans.
to the risk of unexpected tax exposures.
International tax reform remains a key focus of attention with the OECDs Base Erosion & Profit Shifting project and the EUs action plan for fair and efficient corporation taxation.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance 57
