STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT ROBUSTLY AND EFFECTIVELY MANAGING RISK DETERMINING OUR RISK PROFILE TO SUPPORT OUR SETTING OUR RISK APPETITE Risk and our risk appetite is not considered in isolation but ROBUST ASSESSMENT AND VIABILITY STATEMENT as an integral part of the Boards strategy setting the annual Following the 2014 changes to the Corporate Governance budget.
Our risk appetite is underpinned by our principal Code and to support the Board in its robust assessment of the financial aim to continue delivering sustainable growth in principal risks facing the Group and its ongoing longer term recurring profits and cash flow for the long term.
To deliver this, viability, the Board conducted a review of the Groups risk the Board ensures governance of those risks which would prevent profile during 2015. us delivering our three strategic objectives: This risk profile review involved both a top-down approach the Strategic objective Principal risks Board considered a wide range of strategic and emerging risks and the extent to which these could impact the Group and a Most trusted The health, safety, wellbeing and security of the bottom-up approach the Board scrutinised the risks identified in brand in the 46,000 students who make Unite Students their the Operations and Property Business units, as well as financing sector home is the foundation to our reputation and and treasury risks, and considered whether these are principal continued focus on health and safety is key to risks.
In addition, the Risk Committee conducted an externally building and maintaining this trust.
facilitated exercise a pre-mortem to help it step back and The risk of customer demand reducing or supply consider potential risks which may not have yet been identified.
increasing underlines why developing the most The Risk Committee brought the results of this exercise to the trusted brand in the sector is critical for our long Board for its consideration and challenge.
This process identified four categories that comprise the Groups Highest Increasing competition and customer risk profile: quality expectations underlines the importance to portfolio constantly improve our portfolio, whilst navigating site selection, development planning risks and build cost inflation as well as disposal risks.
Market Operational Strongest Maintain a timely approach in arranging new risks risks capital debt and extending debt maturities, reducing the structure cost of funding, diversifying our funding sources and introducing new lenders to the Group.
Secure a strong balance sheet with appropriate levels of leverage and liquidity to ensure the Property Financing business can withstand any property cycle.
Development risks risks STRESS TESTING OUR RISK COMBINATIONS Each year, the Board develops and refreshes the Groups Strategic Plan, which is based on detailed three year financial These risk categories are consistent with the principal risks projections and related scenario planning and rolls forward for identified in prior years although the following movement in a further two years using more generic assumptions.
Having specific risks reflecting the changing external environment regard to our risk profile and conscious that risk events do not and business activities were identified: necessarily happen in isolation, the Board stress tested our model against various multiple combined risk events.
Risk profile category What happened in 2015 A base case and stress tested Strategic Plan was developed to Market risks A record volume of PBSA assets were traded help with this scenario planning.
The stress tested Strategic Plan supply during the year.
We expect this to lead to considered a material rise in long term interest rates together Property greater operational competition and with yield expansion and a material decline in international Development additional capital being committed to students and also a combination of all these events occurring risks new supply over the next few years.
Market risks 2015 started with political uncertainty before demand the May UK General Election.
This uncertainty dissipated with the Conservative victory in the General Election but was replaced with Increase in Yield uncertainty due to the EU referendum.
interest rates expansion Continued growth in student numbers supported by Government policy, with stronger growth in the higher ranked Universities.
Reduction in international The individual principal risks across these four risk categories are students detailed on pages 31 to 34.
28 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information ENSURING RISK MANAGEMENT OWNERSHIP RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The Board has the overall responsibility for the governance of THROUGHOUR CULTURE risks and ensures there are adequate and effective systems in The Groups risk management framework is designed to identify place.
It does this in various ways: the principal risks and ensure that risks are being appropriately monitored, controls are in place and required actions have Risks are considered by the Board as an intrinsic part of clear ownership with requisite accountability.
strategy setting and consideration of new opportunities risk is recognised as an inherent part of each opportunity The organisation has an open and accountable culture, led by a stable and experienced leadership team who have A twice yearly formal review by the Board of principal risks, operated in the sector for a number of years.
This culture is set how they are changing and consideration of emerging risks by the Board in the way it conducts its Board and Committee Risk Committee reviews the principal risks that the Group is meetings and cascades through the organisation enabling the facing or should consider same culture for risk management.
The culture of the organisation recognises and accepts that risk is inherent in business and Specific risk management in dedicated Board sub-committees encourages an open and proactive approach to risk allowing focus on specific risk areas for example, the Audit management, as opposed to a blame culture.
Committee and Health & Safety Committee Risk Committee scrutiny and challenge of business unit risk management activity allowing a focused forum for risk identification and review Board directors also sit on business unit boards and thus provide the Board with direct line of sight to business unit risk management activity Risk assurance through external and internal auditors as well as specialist third party risk assurance where appropriate e. g. specialist independent health and safety compliance in the Operations and Property business units COMPOSITION OF RISK COMMITTEE J J Lister Chair of Risk Committee and Chief Financial Officer M C Allan Chief Executive Officer R C Simpson MD Property Risks assessed as R S Smith MD Operations part of strategy setting and risk oversight C R Szpojnarowicz Company Owned by the Board and Secretary and Head of Legal its Committees Twice yearly formal risk review and ongoing monitoring of risk integral to Board meetings Risk management Owned by the Risk Committee and the business unit boards Monthly risk tracker review at business unit boards Policies and controls People embedded risk Risk Committee review management culture underpinning of all risk trackers Openness, transparency risk management and clear ownership of such as Capital Operating risk management through Guidelines: Treasury Policy: risk trackers cascades through Anti-Bribery Policy: Major the organisation Investment Approvals Committee and the internal controls framework The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED KEY RISK INDICATORS KRIs LINKED TO OUR KPIs VIABILITY STATEMENT The directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a ANDOUR THREE STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES three year period to December 2018, taking account of the Strategic objective KRIs Groups current position and the potential impact of these Most trusted Customer satisfaction scores principal risks.
Based on this assessment, the directors have a brand reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue University trust scores in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the % Noms v. Direct Let period to December 2018.
As explained above, the Group has developed an annual Highest Net Asset Value business planning process, which comprises a Strategic Plan, a quality Age asset financial forecast for the current year and a financial projection portfolio Occupancy for the next three years which includes stress testing and scenario planning as detailed earlier and which also rolls forwards for a Rental Growth further two years.
This plan is reviewed each year by the Board as part of its strategy setting process.
Once approved by the Board, Strongest Net debt the plan is cascaded down through the Group and provides a capital See through LTV basis for settling all detailed financial budgets and strategic structure actions that are subsequently used by the Board to monitor Net debt : EBITDA performance and for the Remuneration Committee to set targets for the annual and longer term incentives.
ROBUST ASSESSMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS The financing risks of the Group are considered to have the The directors confirm that they have conducted a robust greatest impact on the Groups financial viability.
The two assessment of the principal risks facing the Group.
The process principal financing risks for the Group are the Groups ability for how the Board determined these principal risks is explained to arrange new debt replace expiring debt facilities and adverse above and the specific principal risks are detailed on pages interest rate movements.
The Group has currently secured funding 31 to 34. for the future development pipeline and prepares its Strategic Plan on a fully funded basis, and the Group manages its hedge exposure with interest rate swaps and fixed rate facilities.
30 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
