01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 03 Financial statements 04 Other information Market risks 1.
Reduction in demand driven by Government policy or other macro events.
Possible events Strategic objective: EU referendum impacting numbers of students coming Building the most trusted brand in the sector is key to helping us to study in the UK.
through any reduction in demand as well as ensuring we have the highest quality portfolio and strongest capital structure to Changes in Government policy on HE funding.
Immigration policy changes affecting student numbers Risk management: and behaviour.
Ongoing monitoring of Government policy and its impact on, and forecasts of, UK, EU and international student numbers Impact studying in the UK whilst in parallel regularly reviewing our Departure from EU impacting EU research grants and portfolio to ensure we have the highest quality portfolio, EU students coming to the UK.
appropriately sized and in the right locations.
May reduce demand and hence profitability and asset values.
Mitigation in 2015 Conducted externally led policy review of macro trends in the What has happened during the year HE sector to better understand policy environment for student Student numbers in the UK continue to grow, supported by and University funding.
Government policy and the removal of the student number cap up 3.9% for 2015 2016 with 532,000 applicants awarded Through implementation of Home for Success our core places at UK Universities, 92,000 higher than last year.
purpose to provide environments that help students achieve more during their time at University we are seeing higher The total number of applicants in 2015 grew by 3.7% to 718,000 customer satisfaction and University trust scores at their highest with applicants outstripping available places by over 180,000. ever levels see page 27 Stronger growth in the higher ranked Universities.
Focus for 2016 During 2015, we have seen Universities more confident in their Refining our product and service to further align with our two student numbers and engaging with us earlier in the booking main customer groups UK first year and international students.
Nominations accounted for 57% of our beds in 2015 2014: 53%.
At Unite Students, occupancy of 99% 2015 2016 compared to 99% 2014 2015 but with more beds 46,000 at 31 December 2015 as compared with 43,000 at 31 December 2014.
Increase in overall student numbers is translating to more students staying at Unite.
Reduction in demand due to change in patterns of study through enhanced use of technology.
Possible events Strategic objective: MOOCs Massive Open Online Courses.
Building the most trusted brand in the sector is key to ensuring we have relationships with the strongest Universities these are Shorter more semester-led courses.
more likely to lead and sustain changes in study pattern.
Impact Risk management: Reduced demand for all year round student accommodation Ongoing monitoring of the evolution of digital learning in the longer term resulting in lower profitability and asset values.
and ensuring we partner with the right Universities.
Mitigation activity in 2015 What has happened during the year Continued investment in market knowledge and building During 2015, we continued to develop our operational platform on our relationships with the strongest Universities, driven by to support more flexible tenancies this would help us manage Home for Success and our University Partnerships team.
changes in patterns of study.
Focus for 2016 Continued focus on Home for Success and our three key strategic objectives as well as our focus on partnerships with stronger Universities.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Market risks 3.
Increase in supply with increasing interest in the performance and appeal of the PBSA sector.
Possible events Strategic objective: New supply as sustained high levels of investment demand Building the most trusted brand in the sector as well as filter into the development market, primarily through investors having the highest quality portfolio is critical to mitigating providing forward commitments to smaller developers.
Risk management Impact We continue with our focus and strategy on: More competition for the best sites where there is over-supply, and resulting price competition cutting in those markets.
markets with supply demand imbalance What has happened during the year exposure to best Universities underpinned with nominations Record levels of PBSA assets traded in 2015 5.5bn 2015. deals for both 2015 deliveries During 2015, continued roll out of Home for Success and investment in our brand and student experience creating increasing percentage of beds 57% in 2015 filled with better environments within our new developments through nominations see page 37.
Home for Success initiative Opening of two properties in 2015 co-branded with the maintaining strong relationships with key HE partners Universities University of Bristol and Kings College London.
Focus for 2016 Continued focus on our portfolio in the towns and cities with the strongest growth prospects and using our scalable operating platform to differentiate our brand and offer consistently high levels of service to students and Universities alike.
Ensuring a strong yet flexible capital structure so we can adapt appropriately as supply grows.
Major health and safety H&S incident in a property or a development site.
Possible events Strategic objective: Fatality or major injury from a fire or other incident Ensuring the health and safety of our customers, contractors at a property.
and employees is fundamental to us building the most trusted brand in the sector.
Multiple contractor injuries at a development or operational site.
Risk management H&S is given direct Board supervision by the H&S Committee Impact a sub-committee of the Board which actively supervises Impact to students living with us and contractors working H&S ensuring robust policies and procedures are in place on-site.
Reputational damage and trust in Unite Students and consistently complied with.
H&S is also actively reviewed at the Operations and Property business units, ensuring that H&S is top of mind in our day to What has happened during the year day operations and is regularly assessed and validated.
Rolled out Keep uS Safe campaign as well as a fire safety campaign to students.
Improved contractor management Mitigation in 2015 by establishing Safe Contractor system.
Regular internal and external audits of our properties.
In our development activity, good performance against our Continuous improvement of safety critical systems informed KPIs with zero reportable accidents across our seven schemes by AIMS, our electronic incident reporting system as well as and a KPI of 2.06 for non-reportable accidents.
For more planned preventative maintenance.
details, see Health and Safety Committee report, page 68.
Collaton Safety Management inspect our development sites on a monthly basis.
Focus for 2016 Review our H&S management system to identify further continuous improvement opportunities focusing on policies for security, safe guarding and emergency preparedness and response.
32 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information Property Development risks 5.
Inability to secure the best sites on the right terms.
Failure or delay to complete a development within budget and on time for the scheduled academic year.
Possible events Strategic objective: Site acquisition risk increasing competition for the best sites Operating the highest quality portfolio.
Risk management Planning risk delays or failure to get planning.
Experienced Development team with extensive site selection and planning expertise, coupled with strong track record Construction risk build-cost inflation as the economy and focus on project delivery and strong relationships with improves.
construction partners with appropriate risk sharing.
Group Board approval for commitments above a certain threshold.
Impact NAV and EPS affected by aborted schemes and or reduced Financial investment in schemes carefully managed prior to financial returns, with cash tied up in development.
To ensure we have the highest quality portfolio, we are Our two 2015 schemes Orchard Heights, Bristol and Angel pursuing new opportunities on a conditional basis, but with a Lane, Stratford were delivered on time and to budget and limited number of sites contracted not conditional on planning are fully let for the 201516 academic year.
following a detailed risk assessment of that opportunity.
2016 regional development pipeline on track with three Mitigation in 2015 properties Aberdeen, Coventry and Portsmouth expected Regular Development team and Property review, with to be fully let for 2016 2017 academic year.
In London, LSAV Group Board director oversight to ensure failure to secure will deliver two schemes Stapleton House, Islington and sites or complete on time are managed in the budget.
Olympic Way, Wembley in 2016 see page 41.
Detailed planning pre-applications and due diligence 2017 and 2018 pipeline anticipated to deliver around before site acquisition.
Build-cost inflation regularly appraised and refreshed in Read more Property business unit meetings.
Mid-sized framework contractors used and longer term relationships established See pages 22-23 on 2015 construction partner activity to mitigate cyclical swings.
Angel Lane and Orchard Heights.
Focus for 2016 Main focus will be on delivering multi-location developments and securing pipeline for 2019.
Property markets are cyclical and performance depends on general economic conditions.
Possible events Strategic objective: Buying or selling properties at the wrong point in the cycle.
Operating the highest quality portfolio.
Risk management Impact Group Board and Property business unit ongoing monitoring of Reduction in asset values reducing financial returns.
property market, direction and values.
Forecast rental growth and recurring profit offsets any yield movement.
What has happened during the year During 2015, record volumes of PBSA portfolios traded 5.5bn.
Ensuring we have a strong yet flexible capital structure so we can adapt appropriately to market conditions.
Clear and The value of the Groups investment portfolio including our active asset management strategy.
share of co-investment vehicles increased to 2,065 million as at December 2015 31 December 2014: 1,624 million with Mitigation in 2015 the average portfolio yield falling 70bps to 5.55%.
Disposals ongoing monitoring of our entire portfolio with selective disposals to benefit from keener prices in the market.
During the year, we continued to maximise our portfolio value through a programme of selective developments, acquisitions, Acquisitions disciplined acquisitions strategy exercising disposals and refurbishments.
caution over portfolio premiums being paid in the market.
Customer satisfaction at highest ever levels supporting rental Maintaining disciplined approach to new development growth and our portfolio value.
transactions by maintaining Group hurdle rates.
Focus for 2016 To continue to acquire sites in line with Group hurdle rates and to procure contracts in line with budgets.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Financing risks 7.
Unable to arrange new debt or expiring debt facilities cannot be replaced or only at high cost and or adverse interest rate movements.
Possible events Strategic objective: Unite breaches a loan covenant or fails to replace debt Strongest capital structure.
Risk management Interest rate increase.
Proactively managing debt maturities to refinance these facilities at least 6-12 months before maturity and in parallel Impact diversifying our sources of finance to repay more expensive If unable to replace debt, then possible forced sale of assets and less flexible borrowings.
potentially leading to sales below valuation.
Slowdown of Control of future cash commitments in line with progress of development activity.
Adverse rate movements can lead to reduced profitability Interest rates monitored by the Funding team as an integral and reduction in property values through resulting expansion part of our refinancing activity owned by the Chief Financial of valuation yields and lower valuations.
Officer and with Group Board oversight.
What has happened during the year Hedge exposure with interest rate swaps and refinance LTV ratio fell from 43% to 35% on a see through basis during facilities with fixed rates.
2015 as our portfolio value increased markedly in contrast to the modest increase in net debt.
Mitigation in 2015 Regular and reliable engagement with lenders.
During 2015, net debt grew by 34 million 4.9% to 731 million on a see through basis with our significant capital expenditure With a benign interest rate environment, we have taken programme substantially funded by asset disposals, retained advantage of historically low rates both on new debt and profits and new equity.
Net debt is now equivalent to c. 6.9 also entering into forward starting interest rate swaps locking times EBITDA and we intend to maintain our debt ratios at in rates for our 2016 and 2017 development pipeline.
Focus for 2016 During 2015, our average cost of debt has fallen to 4.5% We are making good progress arranging a new facility from 4.7% and expect it to fall further by the end of 2016 to replace our Lloyds facility USAF.
We intend to secure a as a proportion of forward starting swaps become effective.
new debt facility to fund our 2018 and 2019 development programme in the second half of 2016.
34 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
