Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 28 Strategic report We are Vedanta Principal risks and uncertainties Risk mitigation plans form an integral part of the Vedantas businesses are exposed to a variety of KRA KPI process of process owners.
Structured risks inherent to an international oil & gas mining discussion on risk management also happens at SBU levels on their respective risk matrix and resources organisation.
The nature of operations and mitigation plans.
Governance of the risk management framework in the businesses for resource companies operations is long-term, is anchored with their leadership team.
resulting in the identification of several ongoing risks.
The Board of Directors has the ultimate Resource companies also carry a significant element responsibility for management of risks and for ensuring the effectiveness of internal control of constantly-evolving risks.
The Audit Committee aids the Board in this process by identifying and assessing any changes in risk exposure, reviewing all risk control measures and approving It is essential to have in place necessary remedial actions, where appropriate.
systems to manage these risks, while balancing the relative risk reward equations demanded The Audit Committee is supported by the Risk by stakeholders.
Our management systems, Our risk Management Committee, which helps evaluate organisational structures, processes, standards, the design and operating effectiveness of the risk management and code of conduct together form our internal mitigation programme and control systems.
framework is control systems, which govern how we conduct the Groups business and manage all associated designed to be a Additional key risk governance and oversight risks.
Materiality and tolerance for risk are committees include: simple, consistent key considerations in our decision-making.
CFO Committee has an oversight on any and clear format treasury-related risks.
This committee comprises Risk management is embedded in our critical for managing and the Group Chief Financial Officer, business business activities, functions and processes.
Chief Financial Officers and Treasury Heads at It helps Vedanta meet its objectives through reporting risks respective businesses.
aligning operating controls with mission and from the Groups vision.
Our risk management framework is Group Capex Sub-Committee evaluates capex businesses to designed to be a simple, consistent and clear risks while reviewing any capital investment format for managing and reporting risks from the decisions, and institutes a risk management the Board.
Groups businesses to the Board.
It is a multiframework in all expansion projects.
layered risk management framework, aimed Vedanta Board Level Sustainability Committee at effectively mitigating the various risks our looks at sustainability related risks.
This businesses are exposed to over the course of committee is headed by a Non-Executive their operations and in their strategic actions.
Director, and other members are the Group Chief Executive Officer and other business leaders.
We identify risk at the individual business level for existing operations as well as for ongoing projects Every business division in the Group has developed through a consistently applied methodology, its own risk matrix of Top 20 risks, which are using the Turnbull risk matrix.
At least once a reviewed at Business Management Committee quarter, formal discussions on risk management level.
Business divisions have developed individual take place in business level review meetings risk registers, depending on the size of their throughout the Group.
At these meetings, each operations and the number of SBUs locations.
business reviews its risks, and any change in These risks are reviewed in SBU level meetings.
the nature and extent of the major risks since the last assessment, also control measures Our principal risks have been assessed established for the risk and further action plans.
according to impact and likelihood, and are Control measures in the Turnbull risk matrix described on the following pages.
The order in are also periodically reviewed by business which these risks appear does not necessarily management teams to verify their effectiveness.
reflect the likelihood of their occurrence or the relative magnitude of their impact on All Vedanta risk management review meetings our business.
While our risk management are chaired by business chief executive officers framework is designed to help Vedanta meet and attended by COO CFO, senior management its objectives, there can be no guarantee that and functional heads.
Risk officers are formally our risk management activities will mitigate or nominated at all operating businesses, and prevent these or other risks from occurring.
The role of the risk officer is to create awareness of risk at senior management level and to develop and nurture a risk management culture within all businesses.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 29 Risk Impact Mitigation Some of our projects have been completed pending We continue our efforts to secure key raw material Delay in commissioning or are nearing completion.
The linkages for our alumina aluminium business.
We are commencement of timing, implementation and cost of these expansion also pursuing multiple options for bauxite sourcing production facilities projects is subject to a number of risks, including a with the Government of Odisha.
Volumes are gradually delay in obtaining necessary approvals, which may ramping up across our Aluminium and Power businesses in aluminium delay or prevent us from commencing commercial and we have received the approval to start our 1,200MW business operations at some of these projects, availability power plant in Korba.
We are pursuing the deemed CPP of power at commercially reasonable rates etc.
route under the Electricity Act to resolve availability of power at Jharsuguda on commercially viable terms.
 challenges are being addressed, with requisite approvals for the commencement of production facilities being pursued.
A strong management team is in place and continues to work towards sustainable low production costs, operational excellence and securing key raw material linkages.
The iron ore business has faced temporary suspension The Honourable Supreme Court The Court in Challenges in and Goa iron ore is yet to commence its operation.
India lifted the ban on mining in the State of Goa, resumption, in April 2014, subject to certain conditions.
continuation of The Indian Ministry of Environment and Forests Iron Ore business has also revoked its earlier order, which had kept environment clearances for iron ore mines in Goa in abeyance.
Vedanta has been allocated with an interim annual mining quantity of 5.5mt of saleable ore based on the state wide cap of 20mtpa for FY2015 which the Group expects to be progressively increased in the coming years.
Mining is expected to commence post monsoons, after receipt of remaining approvals from the Indian Government.
We are working towards securing the necessary permissions for commencement of operations.
Aggressive cost reduction initiatives are also under way at our Iron Ore business.
Our zinc and lead mining operations in India are We are working with internationally renowned Transitioning of zinc transitioning from an open pit mining operation to engineering and technology partners towards ensuring and lead mining an underground mining operation.
Difficulties in a smooth transition from open pit to underground operations from managing this transition may result in challenges mining, with a major focus on safety aspects.
in achieving stated business milestones.
open pit to Technical audits are being carried out by independent agencies.
underground mining Reputed contractors have been engaged to ensure completion of the project on indicated time lines.
These mines will be developed using best-inclass technology and equipment, and ensuring the highest level of productivity and safety.
We are inducting employees and contractors in our system with underground mining expertise.
Our employees are also gaining experience working abroad in underground mines to accentuate skill development.
Stage gate process is in place to ensure we frequently review risk and remedy.
Robust quality control procedures have also been implemented to check safety and quality of services, design, and actual physical work.
Additional output from cut V of the open pit as well as ramp up from some of the mines is expected to smoothen this transition.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 30 Strategic report We are Vedanta Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Impact Mitigation Lower production and higher cost at We are reviewing our operations and engaging with all Operational KCM may impact our profitability.
stakeholders in light of operating challenges, issues in turnaround atKCM VAT refunds and a new Mineral Royalty Tax regime.
We are committed to improving KCM operating performance.
We are implementing the pivot strategy at Konkola to focus on profitable areas of production and reviewing operations and engaging with all stakeholders.
Government authorities are proceeding in resolving policy tangles in the resources industry and enabling faster approvals.
Our focus is on improving equipment availability to increase extraction rates, and experienced operators are being introduced into critical positions.
Several cost-saving initiatives and restructuring reviews are also under way at KCM to preserve cash.
The increased production rates from our growth Our strategic priority is to add to our reserves Discovery risk oriented operations places demand on exploration and resources by extending resources at a faster and prospecting initiatives to replace reserves and rate than we deplete them, through continuous resources at a pace faster than depletion.
A failure in focus on drilling and exploration programmes.
our ability to discover new reserves, enhance existing In order to achieve this we have developed an reserves or develop new operations in sufficient appropriate organisation and allocated adequate quantities to maintain or grow the current level of our financial resources for exploration.
International reserves could negatively affect our prospects.
There technical experts and agencies are working closely are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating with our exploration team to build on this target.
ore and oil & gas reserves, and geological, technical and economic assumptions that are valid at the We continue to work towards long-term time of estimation.
These may change significantly supply contracts with mines.
when new information becomes available.
Cairn India has 70% participating interest We are in continuous dialogue with the Indian Extension of in Rajasthan Block.
The Production-Sharing Government and relevant stakeholders.
The  Contract PSC of Rajasthan Block runs till 2020.
Sharing Contract has certain in-built options for Contract of Cairn Challenges in extending Cairns Productionextension: Cairn has already applied for an extension Sharing Contract beyond 2020, or extension at and the matter is being pursued with all stakeholders.
beyond 2020 or less favourable terms, may have implications.
extension at less favourable terms Our operations are subject to conditions and events Asset utilisation and cost of production CoP continues Reliability and beyond our control that could, among other matters, to be a priority.
We carry out periodic benchmarking of predictability increase our mining, transportation or production CoP and other operational efficiencies with the objective inoperational costs, disrupt or halt operations at our mines, smelters of being in the top decile in all the businesses on CoP.
and power plants and production facilities for We have employed reputable consultancy firms to performance varying lengths of time or even permanently.
These advise on improving overall operational efficiencies.
conditions and events include disruptions in mining A structured asset optimisation programme operates and production due to equipment failures, unexpected in the Group, and the role of the asset optimisation maintenance problems and other interruptions, function in each business has been enlarged non-availability of raw materials of appropriate and elevated in the organisation structure.
quantity and quality for our energy requirements, We are also pursuing savings and synergy initiatives disruptions to or increased cost of transport services in procurement and marketing in order to reduce or strikes and industrial actions or disputes.
costs and improve performance of our operations.
The procurement initiatives include aspects such as optimising supplier portfolio and combining purchasing at Group level, combining logistics activities, improve asset flexibility to process a wider range of commodities and develop closer relationships with key vendors to get benchmark performance.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 31 Risk Impact Mitigation Prices and demand for the Groups products are The Group has a well-diversified portfolio which acts Fluctuation in expected to remain volatile uncertain and strongly as a hedge against fluctuations in commodities commodity prices influenced by global economic conditions.
Volatility and delivers cash flows through the cycle.
including oil in commodity prices and demand may adversely Vedanta considers exposure to commodity price affect our earnings, cash flow and reserves.
fluctuations to be an integral part of the Groups business and its usual policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices and not to enter into price hedging arrangements other than for businesses of custom smelting and purchased alumina, where back-to-back hedging is used to mitigate pricing risks.
In exceptional circumstances we may enter into strategic hedging but only with prior approval of the Executive Committee.
The Group monitors the commodity markets closely to determine the effect of price fluctuations on earnings, capital expenditure and cash flows.
The CFO Committee reviews all commodity-related risks and suggests necessary courses of action as needed by business divisions.
Our focus is on cost control and cost reduction.
Our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a Vedanta does not speculate in forex.
We have Currency exchange variety of currencies due to the diversity of the countries developed robust controls in forex management to rate fluctuations in which we operate.
Fluctuations in exchange rates of hedge currency risk liabilities on a back-to-back basis.
those currencies may have an impact on our financials.
The CFO Committee reviews our forex-related matters Although the majority of the Groups revenue is tied to periodically and suggests necessary courses of action commodity prices that are typically priced by reference as may be needed by businesses from time to time, to the US dollar, a significant part of its expenses are and within the overall framework of our forex policy.
incurred and paid in local currency.
Moreover Group We seek to mitigate the impact of short-term borrowings are significantly denominated in US dollars movements in currency on the businesses by while a large percentage of cash and liquid investments hedging short-term exposures progressively based are held in other currencies, mainly in the Indian on their maturity.
However, large or prolonged rupee.
Any material fluctuations of these currencies movements in exchange rates may have a material against the US dollar could result in lower profitability adverse effect on the Groups businesses, operating or in higher cash outflows towards debt obligations.
results, financial condition and or prospects.
We have operations in many countries around Vedanta, together with its business divisions, monitors Political, legal and the globe, which have varying degrees of regulatory and political developments on a continuous regulatory risk political and commercial stability.
Our focus has been on communicating responsible mining credentials through representations The political, legal and regulatory regimes in to Government and industry associations.
the countries we operate in may result in higher operating costs, restrictions such as the imposition We continue to demonstrate the Groups commitment or increase in royalties or taxation rates, export to sustainability through actively engaging with duty, impact on mining rights ban and change in proactive environmental, safety and CSR practices, legislation pertaining to repatriation of money.
including local community, media and NGOs.
We may also be affected by the political We are SOX and SEC-related compliant organisations.
acts of governments including resource We have an online portal for compliance monitoring.
nationalisation and legal cases in these Appropriate escalation and review mechanisms are in countries over which we have no control.
Competent in-house legal organisation exists at all the businesses.
A framework for monitoring against Anti-Bribery and Corruption guidelines is also in place.
Our businesses are in a tax regime and change in Vedanta has a robust organisation in place at business Tax related matters any tax structure may impact our profitability.
and Group level to handle tax-related matters.
We engage, consult and take opinion from reputed tax consulting firms.
Reliance is placed on appropriate legal opinion and precedence.
Recently the Government has taken an aggressive stance against some of our Group companies in regards to their tax matters.
We continue to take appropriate legal opinions and actions on these matters to mitigate the impact of these actions on the Group and its subsidiaries.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 32 Strategic report We are Vedanta Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Impact Mitigation Like many other global organisations, our reliance Appropriate organisation is in place at Breaches in on computers and network technology is increasing.
respective businesses for information and IT information These systems could be subject to security breaches security.
IT security policies and procedures ITsecurity resulting in theft, disclosure or corruption of key are defined at individual businesses.
Security breaches could also We seek to manage cyber security risk through result in misappropriation of funds or disruptions increased standards, ongoing monitoring of threats and to our business operations.
A cyber security breach awareness initiatives throughout the organisation.
An could have an impact on business operations.
IT system is in place to monitor logical access controls.
We continue to carry out IT security reviews by experts periodically and improve IT security standards.
The continued success of our existing operations Establishing and maintaining close links with Community and future projects are in part dependent upon stakeholders is an essential part of our journey as a relations broad support and a healthy relationship with the sustainable business.
Our endeavour is to integrate respective local communities.
Failure to identify our sustainability objectives into long-term planning.
and manage local concerns and expectations can Vedantas approach to community development is have a negative impact on relations with local holistic, long-term, integrated and sustainable, and communities and therefore affect the organisations is governed by two key considerations: the needs reputation and social licence to operate and grow.
of the local people, and the development plan in line with the UN Millennium Development Goals.
The Boards Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee decides the focus areas of all CSR activities, budget and programmes to be undertaken by businesses.
Our business leadership teams have periodic engagements with all local communities to establish relations based on trust and mutual benefit.
Our focus is on local consent prior to accessing resources.
We seek to identify and minimise potential negative operational impacts and risks through responsible behaviour acting transparently and ethically, promoting dialogue and complying with commitments to stakeholders.
We implement sustainability controls through the Vedanta Sustainable Development Framework aligned to IFC, ICMM and OECD standards.
We work with and partner with global think tanks and institutional bodies such as WBCSD, CII and IUCN, and have introduced structured community development programmes to reduce water, energy and carbon consumption.
We help communities identify their priorities through need assessment programmes and then work closely with them to design programmes that seek to make progress towards improvement in quality of life of the local communities.
Further details of the Groups CSR activities are included in the Sustainability section.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 33 Risk Impact Mitigation The resources sector is subject to extensive Health, Safety and Environment HSE is a high Health, safety and health, safety, and environmental laws, priority for Vedanta.
Compliance with international environment HSE regulations and standards.
Evolving regulations, and local regulations and standards, and protecting standards and stakeholder expectations could our people, communities and the environment result in increased cost, litigation or threaten from harm and our operations from business the viability of operations in extreme cases.
interruptions, are our key focus areas.
Vedantas Board Sustainability Committee is chaired by a Non-Executive Director and includes the Group Chief Executive Officer, and meets periodically to discuss HSE performance.
We have appropriate policies and standards in place to mitigate and minimise any HSE-related occurrences.
Structured monitoring and a review mechanism and system of positive compliance reporting is in place.
We have implemented a set of standards to align our sustainability framework in line with international practices.
A structured sustainability assurance programme continues to operate in all business divisions.
It covers environment, health, safety, community relations and human rights aspects, and embeds our operational commitment to HSE.
HSE experts are also inducted from reputed Indian and global organisations to bring in best-in-class practices.
Each business has an appropriate policy in place for occupational health-related matters, supported by structured processes, controls and technology.
Our operations ensure the issue of operational health and consequential potential risk obligations are carefully handled.
Depending on the nature of the exposure and surrounding risk, our operations have different levels of processes, controls and monitoring mechanisms.
There is a strong focus on safety during project planning execution with adequate thrust on contract workmen safety.
Fatal accidents and injury rates have declined.
We are implementing programmes to eliminate fatalities and control injuries.
Our leadership remains focused on a zero-harm culture across the organisation.
Consistent application of Life-Saving performance standards and quantitative risk assessments for all the critical areas formal identification of process safety risks and focusing on the management of controls.
We continue to improve on our safety investigations and follow-up processes.
Further details of our HSE-related activities are included in the Sustainability section.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 34 Strategic report We are Vedanta Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Impact Mitigation The Companys efforts to continue its growth and We continue to invest in initiatives to widen our Talent skill shortage efficient operations will place significant demand on its talent pool.
We have a talent management system risk management resources.
Our highly skilled workforce in place to identify and develop internal candidates and experienced management team is critical to for critical management positions and processes maintaining its current operations, implementing its to identify suitable external candidates.
development projects and achieving longer-term growth.
Our performance management system is designed Any significant loss or diminution in the collective to provide reward and remuneration structures and pool of Vedantas executive management or other personal development opportunities to attract and key team members could have a material effect on its retain key employees.
A structured programme businesses, operating results and future prospects.
maps critical positions and ensures all such positions are filled with competent resources.
Our progressive HR policies and strong HR leadership have ensured that career progression, job rotation and job enrichment are focus areas for our businesses.
We have established the Mining Academy in Rajasthan to develop an employee pool with enhanced underground mining skills.
We also have a structured programme to develop a technically proficient employee pool.
Our operations may be subject to a number of Vedanta has taken appropriate Group insurance Loss of assets or circumstances not wholly within the Groups cover to mitigate this risk.
We have appointed profit due to natural control.
These include damage to or breakdown of an external agency to review the risk portfolio calamities equipment or infrastructure, unexpected geological and adequacy of this cover and to assist us in our variations or technical issues, extreme weather insurance portfolio.
Our underwriters are reputed conditions and natural disasters, any of which institutions and have capacity to underwrite could adversely affect production and or costs.
There is an established mechanism of periodic insurance review in place at all entities.
However, any occurrence not fully covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on the Groups business.
The change in carrying value of assets We maintain a close watch on various The Groups depends on various assumptions.
The change business drivers that could impact impairment reported results in any of those assumptions may impact assessment.
There is continuous focus, could be adversely the useful life and its carrying value.
monitoring and periodic review of our assets.
affected by the We also periodically review the assumptions, carry out testing and reassess the useful life of impairment of these assets with the help of reputable firms.
assets Vedanta reviews the carrying value of its assets and long-term price assumptions.
In view of the steep drop in oil prices, the Company has impaired US$4.5 billion net of tax of carrying values.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 35 Risk Impact Mitigation The Group may not be able to meet its payment The Group generates sufficient cash flows from Liquidity risk obligations when due or be unable to borrow funds current operations which, together with the available in the market at an acceptable price to fund actual cash and cash equivalents and liquid financial asset or proposed commitments.
A sustained adverse investments, provide short-term and long-term liquidity.
economic downturn and or suspension of its operation The volume ramp up and our efforts to optimise opex in any business, effecting revenue and free cash flow and capex are expected to provide cash flow that will generation, may cause some stress on the Companys reduce gearing in the medium term.
Cairn India has financing and covenant compliance and its ability to announced a reduction in capex, which will help to raise financing at competitive terms.
Any constraints on maintain positive free cash flows at current oil prices upstreaming of funds from the subsidiaries to the Group and retain the flexibility to invest in growth projects as may affect the liquidity position at the Group level.
oil price improves and costs are further optimised.
Anticipated future cash flows and undrawn committed facilities are expected to be sufficient to meet the ongoing capital investment programme and liquidity requirement of the Group in the foreseeable future.
The Group has sufficient experience in raising and refinancing debt c. US$35 billion over the past decade and has in the past been able to tap diverse sources of funding to meet its needs.
This will help mitigate the execution risk around this risk.
The Group has a strong Balance Sheet that gives sufficient flexibility to raise further debt should the need arise.
The Group is further committed to further simplify the structure which will help improve cash fungibility and hence lower liquidity risk.
