Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Risk management Identifying and managing our risks We have a clear framework for identifying and managing risk, both at an operational and strategic level.
Our risk identification and mitigation processes have been designed to be responsive to the ever-changing environments in which we operate.
Our risk management Identifying our principal risks Our principal risks approach Vodafone identifies its principal risks through Vodafones principal risks are relatively similar annual bottom up and top down exercises.
to those reported last year, although with Vodafone recognises that effective risk The bottom up exercise is conducted some movement on the relative ranking management is critical to enable us to meet by each majority-owned subsidiary company of these risks and two new risks added: our strategic objectives.
in 25 markets, together with three major i major Enterprise contracts and ii superior The Board has overall responsibility for the central companies responsible for shared customer experience.
Groups risk management and internal controls service centres, roaming and enterprise The risks are each classified as financial, system.
The Audit and Risk Committee, under services.
Each of these 28 entities identifies operational, compliance, strategic delegation from the Board, monitors the their top ten risks together with their tolerance or reputational.
Vodafones decentralised nature and extent of risk exposure against risk for these risks.
The top down exercise includes operations and global scale reduces the appetite for our principal risks.
Details of the interviews with around 30senior executives.
impact of many of its operational risks.
activities of the Audit and Risk Committee are The output from the aggregated results of the set out on pages 63 to 68 of this report.
top down and bottom up exercises produces At an operational level, risks are reviewed and a list of principal risks that are reviewed and managed by the Executive Committee and agreed by the Executive Committee, prior through its delegated sub-committee, the Risk to review by the Audit and Risk Committee.
Details of the Each principal risk is assigned to a senior activities of the Risk and Compliance Committee executive who is responsible for managing are set out on page 71 of this report.
the risk and reporting on progress to the Executive Committee.
a Overall responsibility for Groups risk management and internal controls system Board Audit & Risk Committee a Monitors nature and extent of risk exposure against risk appetite for principal risks Risk & Compliance Committee Risk and Compliance Director Group risk owners sub-committee of the a Responsible for global risk a Identify relevant controls Executive Committee management framework a Manage global a Decides on principal risks a Monitors Group level risks, remediation programmes a Determines risk appetite controls and actions a Report on progress to Risk and a Decides risk response for risks a Supports the Executive Compliance Director Top that exceed tolerance Committee in monitoring risk down exposure versus appetite a Monitors risk management Internal audit Group a Manages global risk community a Sets cultural tone Supports Group level a Aligns risks to assurance local audit committees in reviewing the effectiveness a Set local objectives and risk appetite in line with Group guidance of the risk Local Chief Executives management Bottom & Executive Committee a Overall responsibility for culture, local risk management and controls framework up Operational level Entity a Local risk owners key functional owner for a principal local or global risk, responsible for local programme level to measure, manage, monitor and report on the risk a Local risk coordinators main point of contact in each market on risk, help to coordinate all activities including enterprise risk management exercise and reporting to the local Chief Executive on overall risk management a Local audit committees track remedial actions for principal risks in market 32 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Relative movement within Group principal risks: Operational risk Increased 1.
Ma licious attack on the network IT infrastructure Risk description Assessment Mitigation A successful cyber-attack This risk is possible in all markets a We have a well-established global security community: with our Group security function on our network could result in which we operate and has working closely with our local market security teams in us not being able to deliver the potential for significant a We work closely with a variety of security communities of interest which include relevant service to our customers, impact.
Certain systems operate government bodies, commercial groups, suppliers and enterprise customers resulting in serious damage at a Group level and as such, to our reputation, consequential a single attack on one of these a We are continually assessing our security policies, standards and procedures and adjusting customer and revenue loss and systems has the potential them so they are commensurate to the threat profile we face.
These assessments are used the risk of financial penalties.
to impact multiple markets to create a focused security investment programme that ensures that the required security simultaneously, further controls are in place and are effective magnifying the impact.
a Each year we run security programmes to identify and deliver additional activities with the This risk has been separated from aim of further strengthening our control environment.
Our aim is to ensure that our critical non-malicious network failure infrastructure is enhanced to reduce the likelihood of unauthorised access and to reduce the to recognise the greater crossimpact of any successful attack market impact a malicious attack could have on the business.
a We manage the risk of malicious attacks on our infrastructure using our global security operations centre that provides 24 7 proactive monitoring of our global infrastructure a We have multiple layers of assurance in place.
Our activities include regular technical assurance and audit activities including vulnerability scanning and ethical hacking programmes Relative movement within Group principal risks: Operational risk Increased 2.
Customer data misuse or leakage Risk description Assessment Mitigation Our networks carry and store This risk is possible in all markets a We have a data privacy programme aimed at ensuring we use data in our possession large volumes of confidential in which we operate.
The programme is based on existing regulations and internationally personal and business voice of this risk have the potential recognised standards traffic and data.
Failure to protect to be major in mature markets a We closely monitor the data privacy regulatory environment in relevant markets and or correctly use this data with robust data protection implement changes to our processes and procedures as appropriate could result in unintentional regulations covering personal loss of, or unauthorised information, voice traffic and data.
a Both the hardware and software applications which hold or transmit confidential personal and access to, customer data.
Furthermore, we generally hold business voice and data traffic include appropriate security features This could adversely affect our a greater volume of confidential a Security related reviews are conducted according to our policies and security standards, reputation and potentially lead personal information in our focused on the highest risk applications and processes to legal action.
mature markets, due to the higher proportion of customers a Our data centres are managed to international information security standards paying their bills by automated bank transfer or credit card.
a Security governance and compliance is managed and monitored through software tools that are deployed to all local markets a We have an ongoing awareness communications campaign in place that includes providing security and privacy awareness training to all Vodafone employees, prior to granting access to customer data a We have an assurance programme in place that incorporates both internal reviews and reviews of third parties that hold data on our behalf a We are implementing data access management tools to monitor any unauthorised access and leakage of our confidential data 33 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Risk management continued Relative movement within Group principal risks: External risk Increased 3.
Adverse political pressure Risk description Assessment Mitigation We face a range of political In all markets where we are a We monitor political developments in our existing and potential markets closely, identifying pressures that could potentially present, political decisions can risks in our current and proposed commercial propositions lead to adverse legislation be made that can have a Regular reports are made to our Executive Committee on current political risks.
These risks are or regulation for the business.
an adverse effect on our considered in our business planning process For example, increased financial business, in relation to a range pressures on governments of issues, from retail price a Authoritative and timely intervention is made at both national and international level in respect may lead them to target foreign regulation to access to nextof legislative, fiscal and regulatory proposals which we feel are disproportionate and not in the investors for further licence fees, generation networks.
interests of the Group directly impacting profitability.
a We have regular dialogue with trade groups that represent network operators and other Furthermore, changes Additionally, disputes in regards industry bodies to understand underlying political pressures in local or international tax to the level of tax payable and rules, for example prompted a We maintain constructive but robust engagement with the tax authorities and relevant any related penalties could by the OECDs emerging government representatives, as well as active engagement with a wide range of international be significant, as reflected in our recommendations on Base companies and business organisations with similar issues ongoing dispute in India.
Erosion and Profit Shifting a Where appropriate we engage advisors and legal counsel to obtain opinions on tax legislation a global initiative to improve and principles the fairness and integrity of tax systems, or new challenges by tax or competition authorities, may expose us to significant additional tax liabilities or impact the carrying value of our deferred tax assets, which would affect the results of the business.
Relative movement within Group principal risks: Strategic risk Unchanged 4.
Convergence Risk description Assessment Mitigation We face competition from This risk is more likely in mature a In key European and some non-European markets we are providing fixed line providers who have the ability markets where more competitors telecommunication services voice and broadband to sell converged services have the assets to offer a In all markets we actively look for opportunities to provide services beyond mobile through combinations of fixed line, converged services.
organic investment, acquisition, partnerships, or joint ventures broadband, public Wi-Fi, TV and mobile on their a As part of Project Spring, we have increased investment in our next-generation fixed existing infrastructure which line infrastructure we either cannot replicate a For all significant transactions we develop and implement a structured integration plan, or cannot provide at a similar led by a senior business leader price point potentially leading to higher customer churn and a Integration plans ensure that cost synergies and revenue benefits are delivered and that the or significant downward pressure acquired businesses are successfully integrated through the alignment of policies, processes on our prices.
and systems Our own convergence a Timely and coordinated intervention with regulatory and competition authorities strategy may be compromised to ensure that dominant infrastructure access and content providers cannot discriminate if we are unable to obtain or restrict competition regulated or equivalent access to infrastructure and content, or acquire, rent or build the right assets, or if we are unable to integrate effectively those businesses we do acquire into our existing operations.
34 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Relative movement within Group principal risks: Reputational risk Unchanged 5.
EMF related health risks Risk description Assessment Mitigation Concerns have been expressed This is an unlikely risk: however, a We have a global health and safety policy that includes standards for electromagnetic that electromagnetic signals it would have a major impact fields EMF that are mandated in all our operating companies.
Compliance to this policy emitted by mobile telephone on services used by our is monitored and overseen by the Risk and Compliance Committee handsets and base stations may customers in all our markets a We have a Group EMF Board that manages potential risks through cross sector initiatives and pose health risks.
particularly in countries that which oversees a coordinated global programme to respond to public concern, and develop have a very low tolerance for Authorities including the World appropriate advocacy related to possible precautionary legislation environmental and health Health Organization WHO related risks.
a We monitor scientific developments and engage with relevant bodies to support the delivery agree there is no evidence and transparent communication of the scientific research agenda set by the WHO that convinces experts that exposure to radio frequency fields from mobile devices and base stations operated within guideline limits has any adverse health effects.
A change to this view could result in a range of impacts from a change to national legislation, to a major reduction in mobile phone usage or to major litigation.
Relative movement within Group principal risks: Operational risk New 6.
Major Enterprise contracts Risk description Assessment Mitigation We have a number of highThis risk is most evident across a We have created consistent and coordinated KPI reporting, which we believe will enhance our value, ongoing contracts with our multi-national corporate and ability to identify readily and act upon potential enterprise delivery challenges corporate customers, including public sector customers.
a Work is currently being undertaken to simplify and improve our delivery capabilities for our some government agencies and Delivery challenges for any largest corporate customers departments.
Successful delivery national critical service would is dependent on complex a We carry out regular reviews with key enterprise customers to identify areas for improvement have a particularly adverse technologies deployed impact on our reputation a A single sales governance process has been developed and will be implemented across across multiple geographies, to provide enterprise services.
Vodafone Global Enterprise and the local markets during the 2016 financial year.
This process as well as relative stability will interlock with a single governance board for design, deliver, operate and billing teams in the requirements, strategies or businesses of our customers, to support the business in identifying and mitigating relevant enterprise delivery risks Failure to deliver these enterprise a We have launched a standardised design methodology with appropriate training.
This will services may lead to a reduction reduce inefficiencies and delays during the delivery cycle, thereby decreasing the likelihood in our expected revenue and of financial penalties and dissatisfied enterprise customers could impact our credibility to deliver on large, complex deals.
35 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Risk management continued Relative movement within Group principal risks: External risk Unchanged 7.
Unstable economic conditions Risk description Assessment Mitigation Economic conditions in many This risk is evident across a We are closely monitoring economic and currency situations in both our AMAP and European of the markets we operate a number of our markets markets.
We have developed detailed business continuity plans to allow us to respond in, especially in Europe, and in particular within our effectively to a country economic crisis leading to a banking system freeze and or a range remain unstable while many southern European markets of Eurozone or EU exits markets continue to stagnate where it may continue to have a We have minimised our exposure to Euro denominated monetary assets since the end of 2008 or show nominal levels a significant impact.
and continue to do so of growth.
These conditions Furthermore, the potential for have resulted in lower levels a Given that we have operations in both Northern and Southern Europe, we have a natural offset Eurozone instability may lead of disposable income and may position in terms of the translation of Euro revenue into Sterling should the Eurozone break to further economic instability result in significantly lower up with either Northern Europe or the Southern European countries leaving the Euro and subsequent reductions revenues as customers give in corporate and consumer up their mobile phones or move a We have credit facilities with 29 relationship banks that are committed for a minimum of five confidence and spending.
Such facilities could be used in the event of a prolonged Another potential consequence disruption to the capital markets There is also a possibility of Eurozone instability would of unstable economic conditions be a prolonged impact on capital impacting on currency exchange markets that could restrict our rates in countries where the refinancing requirements.
Group has operations, with potential adverse implications for our profitability and the value of our financial and nonfinancial assets.
Relative movement within Group principal risks: Strategic risk Unchanged 8.
Disadvantaged by existing and emerging technology players Risk description Assessment Mitigation The development of messaging The threat from OTT competition a We have developed strategies which strengthen our relationships with customers and voice applications which is relevant for all markets by accelerating the introduction of integrated voice, messaging and data price plans to avoid make use of the internet where alternative services are customers reducing their out of bundle usage through internet Wi-Fi based substitution as a substitute for some of our commonly available e. g. VoIP, a The loss of voice and messaging revenue is partially offset by the increase in data revenue more traditional services erode and has the potential for major our revenue.
Reduced demand impact on service revenues.
a We regularly review the performance of key suppliers, both operationally and financially, for our core services of voice and across individual markets and from the Group perspective Regarding supplier messaging, and the development concentration, this risk is relevant a We are continually assessing and testing potential new suppliers of services by over the top OTT across all our markets, with there competition, could significantly a Driven by Project Spring we have been able to further consolidate demand across our core and being a limited number of global impact on our future profitability.
suppliers from which we are partner markets to manage our cost base effectively A limited number of suppliers able to purchase operating of operating systems, terminals, systems, devices and our IT and IT and network infrastructure, network infrastructure.
could lead to commercial exploitation and subsequent increased costs of maintaining and extending our networks.
36 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Relative movement within Group principal risks: Operational risk New 9.
Superior customer experience Risk description Assessment Mitigation We operate in highly competitive This risk is relevant to all our a Customer experience has been prioritised as a key component of our strategy.
The Chief markets and failure to deliver markets, and particularly of Staff, supported by a programme office, is leading a programme to improve customer a differentiated and superior to our consumer business.
experience related activities across Vodafone experience to our customers Differentiating based on a superior a We have detailed plans in place across the business to deliver a range of system and capability in store, online and on the customer experience will involve improvements to support an enhanced customer experience phone, could diminish our brand a number of areas.
and reputation, and leave a We track and monitor our performance in delivering a superior customer experience through a Clear and transparent us vulnerable to aggressive a range of KPIs: the most critical being our NPS and Brand Consideration metrics communication with all pricing from competitors our customers a We have restructured our incentivisation programme to strengthen the importance of key and potentially a weakened relationship with our customers.
customer experience related metrics a Managing roaming charges and bill shocks a Delivering clear, understandable tariffs a Suitable complaint handling a Providing a leading online and app customer experience Relative movement within Group principal risks: Operational risk Decreased 10.
Network IT infrastructure failure Risk description Assessment Mitigation We are dependent on the This risk is possible in all markets a Specific back-up and resilience policy and requirements are built into our networks and continued operation of our in which we operate and has IT infrastructure.
Conformance with these requirements is monitored continually networks.
Multiple network the potential for significant a We monitor our ability to replace strategic equipment quickly in the event of end-of-life or IT infrastructure failures impact.
For the majority of such or failure, and for high risk components, we maintain dedicated back-up equipment ready caused by non-malicious network and IT infrastructure for use means including end of life failures, the associated impacts failure, natural disasters and would be confined to a single a Network and IT contingency plans are linked with our business continuity and disaster weather-related failures market.
There are however some recovery plans which are in place to cover the residual risks that cannot be mitigated may result in voice, video or data exceptions where data centres a A crisis management team and escalation processes are in place both nationally and transmissions being significantly and critical network sites serve interrupted.
This could result multiple markets.
Crisis simulations are conducted annually in serious damage to our reputation, a consequential customer and revenue loss and the risk of financial penalties.
Strengthening our risk management approach a transferring responsibility for risk from the Group a ensuring our global risk community is better Vodafone is in the process of making Audit Director to the Group Compliance Director connected and therefore better placed to share a number of changes aimed at strengthening now Group Risk and Compliance Director : best practices: and its Enterprise risk management.
a creating a new Head of Risk role to report to the a developing an integrated assurance plan to help These include: Group Risk and Compliance Director: identify any gaps and overlaps in the management of our principal risks across the three lines a amending the terms of reference of the former of defence in accordance with best practice Policy and Compliance Committee to make risk management.
it a Risk and Compliance Committee: a improving accountability for, and tracking of, principal risks across functions and local markets: 37
