RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management is embedded in Victrexs culture, ensuring thatweassess risks as part ofdelivering our strategy.
1 RISK AGENDA 4 RISK COMMUNICATION 2 RISK ASSESSMENT 5 RISK GOVERNANCE 3 RISK RESPONSE Risk objectives Risk strategy The Board is responsible for The Board is responsible for creating determining the nature and extent the framework for the Groups risk R ISK AGENDA ofthe risks it is willing totake in management to operate effectively.
Why do we undertake 1 delivering Victrexs strategic objectives.
This risk management framework riskmanagement?
The strategic risk appetite for the includes risk assessment, response, business is discussed as part of communication and governance.
The theGroups annual review of our Board is also responsible for ensuring business strategy.
that appropriate and proportionate resources are allocated to risk Victrex undertakes risk management management activities.
to improve the resilience, performance, sustainability and success of its business, whilst in turn facilitating decisions and providing useful information to shareholders.
Analysis and recording of risks 2nd: Managements oversight activities Executive managers take ownership over its first line controls and processes of specific business risks.
The likely and risk management processes.
R ISK ASSESSMENT causes and consequences of each risk How do we assess 2 3rd: Independent business assurance are recorded.
Each risk is evaluated andrecordrisks?
provided by both third parties and based on its likelihood of occurrence in-house internal audit over the and severity of impact on strategy, When assessing risk, we consider: effectiveness of the Groups system profit, regulatory compliance, ofinternal controls and processes u external factors, including reputation and or people.
Risks are inmanagements first and second environmental, social and governance evaluated at both a gross and a net lines of defence.
factors ESG, arising from the level, i. e. before and after theeffect environment in which we operate: and ofmitigation.
All risks are positioned Re-evaluation and challenge of risks on a risk-ranking matrix.
This approach u internal factors arising from the We seek to keep the risk registers up allows the identification and consistent nature of our business, our internal to date and relevant to our strategic evaluation of significant risks, as controls and processes.
Therisk registers are wellas consideration of the effect of regularly reviewed, challenged and current lines of defence inmitigation.
Risks are escalated We look at three lines of defence: asappropriate.
1st: The day to day controls and processes put in place by management.
Victrex plc 20 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report For each risk, we decide whether to The risk owners and the Business tolerate it, mitigate it through further Assurance team allocate a status control, transfer it e. g. through rating of appropriateness and R ISK RESPONSE insurance or terminate the threat effectiveness against each line of How do we respond 3 tothe business.
This allows the risk register torisks?
to record and track the completion We continually challenge the efficiency ofimprovement recommendations.
and effectiveness of existing internal controls andalways seek to improve our risk managementframework.
thestatus ratings against each line ELT Risk Management Committee ofdefence and the action plan, therefore The Executive Leadership Team ELT allowing it to be used effectively as Risk Management Committee, chaired R ISK COMMUNICATION arecord of the completion of risk by the Group Finance Director, reviews Effective communication 4 improvement actions and their the corporate risk register at least half At Victrex, our risk management revisedlikelihood and impact.
yearly to ensure it remains relevant to structure is as follows: the changing uncertainties threatening Audit Committee our business strategic objectives.
Victrex plc Board The responsibilities of the Audit During the year feedback from these The Board undertakes an annual Committee are explained on pages reviews was provided directly to the review of the effectiveness of the risk 46to 47.
These responsibilities Audit Committee and the Board by management framework, policy and includereviewing the Companys the Group Finance Director, to the procedures, the performance of the riskmanagement systems.
The risk former in respect of the risk management Audit Committee and also approves management system is primarily systems and to the latter in respect of the risk management policy.
The designed to mitigate risk down the principal risks in the corporate risk annual review of effectiveness includes toanacceptable level, rather than register.
The ELT Risk Management consideration of the continued effective completely eliminate the risk, and the Committee comprises the ELT integration of risk management and review can provide only reasonable membership, the Director of Risk internal controls with the corporate and not absolute assurance of effective andCompliance and the Global strategic objectives and business operation, compliance with laws SHEManager.
model, changes to and completeness of andregulations and against material the principal risks and their management, misstatement orloss.
Risk management subcommittees the robustness ofthe embedded risk Risk management committees exist The Companys management are management processes and culture for business unit functional levels.
responsible for the identification, which underpin the quality of the These meet and report up to the ELT assessment, management and reporting received by the Board, Risk Management Committee at least monitoring of risk, for developing, consideration of any significant control half yearly via their respective chairs, operating and monitoring the system failings or weaknesses and the strength who are ELT Risk Management of internal control and for providing of our public reporting process.
assurance that it has done so.
The Twiceyearly, the Board carries out Audit Committee receives reports acomprehensive assessment of the Projects from management on the effectiveness principal risks, including evaluating Where it is appropriate, projects will of those systems they have established.
the level of risk itis prepared to accept have a project-specific risk register in pursuit ofVictrexs strategic objectives.
The Risk and Compliance function which will be reported to the relevant supports the Audit Committee in its business unit.
The corporate risk register is review of the effectiveness of the consolidated from registers within system of internal control, asdoes the business functions and projects.
external auditor on matters identified Thecorporate risk register tracks during the course of its statutory audit work.
In Victrex, the processes in place risks to the meetings of the ELT tosupport the risk governance Risk Management Committee, component of our risk management which reviews these and the risks R ISK GOVERNANCE framework include the following: inthe corporate risk register.
The How do we evaluate and 5 three lines of defence model is provide assurance over u For Board and internal audit, recognised as best practice in seepages36 and 48 respectively.
relation to risk governance, and u The chairman of each of the itsinclusion on the face of our riskmanagement subcommittees corporate risk register enhances communicates significant output, the governance aspect of our risk activities and emerging and evolving management framework.
Victrex plc 21 Annual Report 2015 PRINCIPAL RISKS PRINCIPAL RISKS The Groups strategic objectives can only be achieved if certain risks are taken and managed effectively.
We have listed below the most significant risks that may affect our business, although there areother risks that may occur and impact the Groups performance.
Risk area and description Mitigation Change SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT The Groups success is dependent on We employ a dedicated Safety, Health and Environment us conducting our business safely.
Given SHE department to assist line management and to the nature of our various manufacturing provideexpert guidance.
No facilities, a significant operational We have policies and procedures to efficiently, safely and change disruption could adversely affect our compliantly manage all our operations: protect the safety and ability to make and supply products.
health of our employees, contractors and visitors: and both to The environment in which Victrex manage our environmental responsibility and to continually operates is subject to numerous improve our resource efficiency.
legislative and regulatory requirements, As our manufacturing facilities are regulated, we are subject where failure to comply could adversely toclose regulatory review, for example by the Environmental impact our employees, our manufacturing Agency under the Environmental Permitting Regulations.
capability, the environment or the attractiveness of our business or Further detail is contained in the Sustainability Report products to various stakeholders.
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE Innovation and product leadership We are future thinkers, continually assessing and identifying arekey to thesuccess of our business.
market needs and capturing value as product leaders.
We serve We provide innovative solutions to a diverse range of markets and work directly with our customers, Risk helpour customers overcome their end users, OEMs and industry-leading decision makers to develop increased technological challenges.
a pipeline of new differentiated applications, leveraging our know-how and protectable IP.
Innovation failings could result in a lack of competitive advantage and relevant We continue to monitor and review competitive intelligence new products, erosion of margin and andhave a clear marketing strategy to support specification failure to achieve sustainable earnings.
ofunique VICTREX PEEK in customer applications.
Our marketing strategy also includes detailed portfolio and product management processes.
With long-term megatrends in our favour, we have a diverse mix of newgrowth opportunities.
Further information can be found on pages 4 and 5.
We actively invest to advance our technology skills and knowledge, in commercial and technical specialists and global technical centres, to underpin our growth and deliver sustainable earnings growth for our shareholders.
RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION OF THE RIGHT PEOPLE Our success depends on recruiting and We have strategies in place collectively our People Strategy to retaining the right people in all areas of attract and retain the best talent, provide opportunities for personal our business.
Victrex relies heavily on development, encourage diversity and recognise and reward No the skills, experience and competence excellence.
The People Strategy is regularly discussed at Board, change ofour people to comply with internal Executive Leadership Team and functional level.
Our employees procedures and external regulations, have clear objectives and development plans, aligned to our strategy, todrive business in existing and new and participate in formal and informal training programmes.
We markets, aswell as to operate our have succession plans in place for key roles and develop our future manufacturing assets safely and with leaders so that we are able to promote internally as well as bringing astrong regard to the environment.
innew talent from the outside.
We operate an equal opportunities policy and regard this as a commitment to make full use of the talents and resources of all ouremployees.
Victrex plc 22 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Risk area and description Mitigation Change FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK The Group exports the majority of its The Group adopts a hedging policy to mitigate short-term currency product out of the UK, but has a significant risk.
This policy is managed by the Currency Committee and is Sterling cost base.
Fluctuations in detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on pages38 to 48.
No exchange rates between Sterling and change US Dollar, Euro and Yen could cause profit and balance sheet volatility.
BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND SUPPLY CHAIN It is essential to ensure continuity of It is our policy to keep capacity well ahead of demand by continual supply and service to our customers investment in our supply chain so that our customers can be confident and that we can operate even if that we can meet their requirements today and in the future.
Risk asignificant incident did occur.
Completion of our third PEEK plant and second Aptiv film line have decreased Failure to maintain a secure supply of further improved our capability.
In addition, we expect to invest in highquality products to our customers, further downstream manufacturing capability in the coming years.
for example, due to an unexpected Stocks of finished goods, which are held in a number of locations upsurge in demand or delays in the worldwide, should enable us to maintain supplies to our customers implementation of major capital during any short-term disruption.
Additionally, we work with our key expenditure programmes, could lead a suppliers to maintain appropriate stocks of key raw materials.
capacity shortage and loss of earnings.
We have robust and comprehensive business continuity plans in place that are regularly reviewed to ensure their continued effectiveness.
NETWORK AND IT SYSTEMS AND SECURITY A significant failure or interruption in our We continue to review and invest where appropriate in the IT networks and systems could have a development and maintenance of our IT infrastructure, systems detrimental impact on our business.
No Data security is very important to us, as We operate a firewall, use antivirus software and monitor any change failure to appropriately process, store or attempted breaches and take action where necessary to ensure our share information could result in the loss infrastructure remains robust and appropriate.
We have in place of data, whether it be our data, or that recovery plans and business continuity plans, which are regularly of our employees or customers.
PRODUCT LIABILITY We sell into highly demanding end use VICTREX PEEK polymer is manufactured within a quality applications and regulated markets.
management system approved to ISO 9001:2008.
Any failure to supply our products in Invibio PEEK-OPTIMA polymer is additionally manufactured No accordance with the specification could withinthe requirements of ISO 13485:2003, a system of good change lead to loss of business and a potential manufacturing practice often used by the pharmaceutical product liabilityclaim.
industry and by medical device manufacturers.
VICTREX pipes for the aerospace market are manufactured within a quality management system approved to AS9100 Rev C. We have also attained ISO 17025:2005 General Requirements for Competence of Testing and Calibration Laboratories certification.
There is a quality management process in place and the Group maintains appropriate levels of product liability insurance.
CHANGING GLOBAL ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT Exposure to changes and events The diverse nature of the Groups markets, customers and outside the Groups control, such as theterritories in which it operates, together with appropriate external global economic conditions, contingency planning, helps to mitigate the impact on the No markets or territories, as well as natural business of such changes and events.
change disasters, may impact the Groups Our outlook by market can be found within our results performance and its ability toachieve presentation at www.
