WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board considers the risks described below to represent the Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
These are presented together with the mitigating actions that are taken in order to ensure that the risks are appropriately monitored and controlled.
WHSmiths management team recognise that the prole of risks constantly changes and additional risks not presently known, or that may be currently deemed immaterial, may also impact the Groups business objectives and performance.
Following further review this year, we have introduced cyber risk and data security as an additional identied principal risk and uncertainty to the business.
Risk description Mitigation Economic, political, competitive and market risks The Group operates in highly competitive markets and our failure to The Groups performance is dependent upon effectively predicting and compete effectively with travel, convenience and other retailers may affect quickly responding to changing consumer demands.
The Group conducts revenues obtained through our stores.
Failure to keep abreast of market customer research to understand current demands and preferences developments, including the use of new technology, could threaten our in order to help translate market trends into saleable merchandise.
In each country in which the Group operates, the Group The Group is a member of key industry bodies which help maintain may also be impacted by regulatory and tax changes, increasing scrutiny awareness of developments in standards and legislation.
The Group also by competition authorities, political developments, the economic climate utilises external consultants to conduct reputational due diligence on and the general condition of retail and travel markets.
Factors such as potential new business partners and to monitor developments that may household disposable income, seasonality of sales, changing demographics impact our operations in overseas countries.
and customer shopping patterns, and raw material costs could impact profit performance.
Brand and reputation The WHSmith brand is an important asset and failure to protect it from The Group monitors the Companys reputation, brand standards and unfavourable publicity could materially damage its standing and the wider key service and compliance measures to ensure the maintenance reputation of the business thereby adversely effecting revenues.
Such risks of operating standards and regulatory compliance across all of our would include, for example, product and service quality, food hygiene, health operations.
We undertake regular customer engagement to understand and safety procedures, environmental or ethical failure, and non-compliance and adapt our product, offer and store environment.
Our corporate with legislative and regulatory requirements.
responsibility programme monitors our performance in respect of our key themes of Marketplace, Workplace, Environment and impact on the Community.
Key suppliers and supply chain management The Group has agreements with key suppliers in the UK, Europe and the Far The Group conducts risk assessments of all its key suppliers to identify East.
The interruption or loss of supply of core category products from these alternatives and develop contingency plans in the event that any of suppliers to our stores may affect our ability to trade.
Quality of supply issues these key suppliers fail.
All suppliers have to comply with the conditions may also impact the Groups reputation and impact our ability to trade.
laid out in our Supplier Code of Conduct which covers areas such as production methods, employee working conditions and quality control.
The Group has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities.
None of these arrangements alone are individually considered to be essential to the business of the Group.
Store portfolio The quality and location of the Groups store portfolio are key contributors The Group undertakes research of key markets and demographics to the Groups strategy.
Retailing from a portfolio of good quality real estate to ensure that we continue to occupy prime locations and identify in prime retail areas and at commercially reasonable rates remains critical appropriate locations to acquire new space.
We maintain regular to the performance of the Group.
All of High Streets stores are held under dialogue and good relationships with all our key landlords.
operating leases, and consequently the Group is exposed to the extent that any store becomes unviable as a result of rental costs.
Most Travel stores are held under concession agreements on average for five to ten years, although there is no guarantee that concessions will be renewed or that Travel will be able to bid successfully for new contracts.
The majority of Travels airport and railway concession agreements contain change of control clauses, giving various rights to the grantor of the concession, such as termination of the contract, in the event of a successful takeover bid for the Group.
indd 20 26 11 2015 15:11 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 Risk description Mitigation Business interruption An act of terrorism or war, or an outbreak of a pandemic disease, could The Group has a framework of IT security controls, operational reduce the number of customers visiting WHSmith outlets, causing a decline procedures and business continuity plans that are regularly reviewed, in revenue and profit.
In the past, our Travel business has been particularly updated and tested.
The Groups IT systems receive ongoing impacted by geopolitical events such as major terrorist attacks, which investment to ensure that they are able to respond to the needs of the have led to reductions in customer trafc.
Closure of travel routes both business.
Back-up facilities and contingency plans are in place and are planned and unplanned, such as the disruption caused by natural disasters tested regularly to ensure that business interruptions are minimised and that data is protected from corruption or unauthorised use.
or weather-related events, may also have a material effect on business.
The Group operates from three distribution centres and the closure of any one of them may cause disruption to the business.
In common with most retail businesses, the Group also relies on a number of important IT systems, where any system performance problems, cyber risks or other breaches in data security could affect our ability to trade.
Reliance on key personnel The performance of the Group depends on its ability to continue to attract, The Remuneration Committee monitors the levels and structure of motivate and retain key head ofce and store staff.
The retail sector is very remuneration for directors and senior management and seeks to competitive and the Groups personnel are frequently targeted by other ensure that they are designed to attract, retain and motivate the key companies for recruitment.
personnel to run the Group successfully.
Treasury, financial and credit risk management The Groups exposure to and management of capital, liquidity, credit, interest The Groups Treasury function seeks to reduce exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risk are analysed further in Note 23 on page 88 rate, foreign exchange and other financial risks, to ensure sufficient of the accounts.
The Group also has credit risk in relation to its trade, other liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash receivables and sale or return contracts with suppliers.
The Group does not engage in speculative trading in financial instruments and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
The value of any deposit that can be placed with any approved counterparty is based on shortterm and long-term credit ratings.
The Groups Treasury policies and procedures are periodically reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee and are subject to Group Internal Audit review.
The Group has a committed facility with a number of financial institutions which is available to be drawn for general corporate purposes including working capital.
This facility matures in June 2019.
Cyber risk and data security The Group is subject to the risk of systems breach or data loss from various The Group employs a framework of IT controls to protect against sources including external hackers or the inltration of computer viruses.
unauthorised access to our systems and data that are monitored In the event of the theft or loss of Company or customer data or potential by the Cyber Risk Steering Committee.
These controls include the damage to any systems from viruses or other malware, this could result in maintenance of rewalls and intruder detection, encryption of data, reputational damage to the business that could negatively impact our sales.
and regular penetration testing conducted by our appointed external Quality Assurance provider.
As part of this risk monitoring framework we have a Steering Group that oversees our programme of compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard.
