Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has ultimate responsibility for risk management Understanding and responding throughout the Group and determines the nature and to risks in our operations means we extent of the risks Whitbread is willing to take to achieve its objectives.
Risk is managed proactively by the business can make informed decisions that unit management boards and the Executive Committee.
enhance our capacity to build value.
Certain responsibilities, such as overseeing the systems of risk management and internal control, have been delegated to the Audit Committee, which completes an annual review Risk management of the effectiveness of these processes.
Risk arises from the operations of, and strategic decisions taken by, every business.
It is not something that can be Both the Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants and the Costa avoided but should be harnessed in pursuit of business businesses complete an annual review of their risks to the objectives.
achievement of their strategic goals, whilst also taking into account the key operational risks, which are updated We have continued to invest in our risk management quarterly.
A topdown risk assessment is also completed capability with the appointment of a Director of Internal to capture the Boards views on the principal risks facing Audit, leading the implementation of a new risk management Whitbread.
Actions required to manage these risks are strategy and policy, which will enhance the identification, monitored and reviewed on a regular basis.
reporting, monitoring and management of risks at all levels within the organisation.
The principal risks identified, together with a summary of key mitigations and their status are summarised on pages The structure and governance over the risk management 35 to 37. process at Whitbread is shown below.
Group risk framework Board Audit Committee Accountable for strategic risk management Oversight and challenge of the eectiveness and ensuring a sound system of internal of risk management and mitigating controls control and risk management is in place Executive Committee Internal Audit Review, challenge and approval of Group risks Coordination and analysis Whitbread Hotels Group Whitbread Hotels Costa & Restaurants functions & Restaurants International Accountable for risk management in the respective business and risk submissions to the Executive Committee Risk identication and review process External factors Risk action plans Managing Directors Business Unit Executive Whitbread Business plan IA work plan of businesses Board Review Committee Review Board AR&A Divisional key risk identication Whitbread Group key risk identication Whitbread Principal risks Process review and controls Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 and uncertainties 34 Audit Committee reviews risk identication and monitoring process Self certication of risk assessment and mitigations Internal Audit review internal controls and business risks Risk management reporting and escalation Governance, strategy, oversight and communications Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Principal risks and uncertainties continued P rincipal risks Risk Key mitigations Status Winning Teams Engagement and retention The success of our businesses would not be possible without Regularly reviewed at Failure to maintain staff the passion and commitment of our teams.
Team engagement senior management engagement and retention is fundamental.
We monitor this closely through our annual and PLC Board level.
engagement survey Your Say, the results of which are reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Board, with trends analysed and appropriate actions agreed.
Team turnover is also a key component of our WINcard and Annual Incentive Scheme.
Talent and succession planning takes place regularly to ensure top talent is identified and succession plans exist for key roles.
Talent gaps are addressed through recruitment, training and development to grow our management capability.
The Group offers key employees appropriate levels of reward and recognition in order to retain them.
Health and safety The safety of our guests and employees is of paramount Increasing activity Health and safety risk: death importance.
NSF, an independent company, carries out health in the international or serious injury as a result and safety audits on every site and we have a programme of fire businesses.
safety training for our employees.
In the last 12 months we have reviewed the fire safety of all hotels and completed the resulting improvements programme.
Health and safety is a measure on the WINcard and acts as a hurdle for incentive payments.
Regular health and safety updates are provided to the Executive Committee, management boards and to the Board.
Customer Heartbeat Innovation and brand To ensure we maintain and improve the strength of our brands Priority at senior strength we continually complete market research and monitor opinion management level.
A longterm decline in the with focus groups and net guest scores to ensure we maintain customer perception of our the right levels of investment and innovation in our customer brands would impact our offerings.
ability to grow and achieve appropriate levels of return.
Competitive supply Actions to outperform the competition are developed on a Priority at senior Increased competitive strategic and tactical basis.
Significant customer research is carried management level.
out with the insight received used to develop action plans and stimulate innovation.
Consumer trends both in the UK and overseas are analysed and competitor activity is monitored.
Whitbread Principal risks Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 and uncertainties 35 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Key mitigations Status Profitable Growth Cyber and data security We have a series of IT security controls in place including network Increased awareness Inadequate systems and and system monitoring and regular penetration testing to identify of potential attacks data security reduces the network and system vulnerabilities.
We have also significantly on customer effectiveness of our systems invested in new skills and capability with the appointment of facing systems or results in a loss of data.
a Chief Data Officer and Director of System Architecture to lead with regular senior This in turn could result our information assurance strategy.
management in loss of income and or review.
A security improvement programme has been established to reputational damage.
address immediate concerns and develop a roadmap to ensure data breach controls, procedures and accountabilities are embedded across Whitbread.
Failure of Premier Inn We are currently upgrading the infrastructure and increasing the Significant reservation system capacity, resilience and stability of the hotel booking reservation investment agreed System failure results system.
The project is being overseen by a steering committee, by PLC Board.
in business interruption, resourced with experienced personnel and supported with process failure and independent third party assurance.
IT infrastructure A strong IT leadership team is in place together with Group Significant Ability to grow is hindered governance structures to help prioritise, coordinate and deliver investment agreed by focus, resources and our business plans and the IT investment in an efficient way by PLC Board.
time required to upgrade so as to minimise disruption.
Property inflation growing We have strong site selection teams with well established Investment faster than our ability and robust processes in place based on market and economic criteria reviewed to increase RevPAR fundamentals, both at a macro and micro level.
These are during the year.
Increase in property prices, supported by a robust investment appraisal process to ensure relative to RevPAR growth, we achieve good levels of return.
makes it harder to find hotel We have also launched our compact hotel format, hub locations that provide good by Premier Inn, focused on achieving good returns in high levels of return for Premier property cost locations.
Inn and achieve our milestones.
Whitbread Principal risks Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 and uncertainties 36 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Key mitigations Status Profitable Growth continued Funding The Group diversifies funding sources, where appropriate, with Agreed at The availability and cost of a combination of revolving credit facilities, US private placements PLC Board level.
debt finance can influence and leases, whilst maintaining strong relationships with banks the Groups opportunities and institutions.
To ensure Whitbread has appropriate access to funds, it aims to The Groups ability to maintain its financial position and capital structure consistent with access funds for its retaining its investment grade status.
To this end we work within businesses in the longer a financial framework of net debt to EBITDAR pension and lease term may be affected during adjusted of less than 3.5 times, which is monitored regularly and periods of tight credit reported to the Board.
conditions or the absence of funds at reasonable cost.
Pensions The Companys defined benefit pension scheme is closed to new Triennial valuation Change in investment members and, for future service, to existing members.
The Pension and recovery plan policy, or assumptions, Investment Committee and its advisers, as well as the internal agreed.
leads to increased pensions team, have significant expertise in the area and provide contributions or rerating good quality oversight.
The investment strategy has been of the credit position.
designed to reduce volatility and risk and hedging opportunities are utilised as appropriate.
The Finance Director attends Pension Investment Committee meetings.
Good Together Food safety and hygiene The health and wellbeing of our customers is fundamental to our Increasing activity The preparation or storage business.
We have stringent food safety and sourcing policies with in the international of food and or supply traceability and testing requirements in place in respect of meat businesses.
chain failure results and other products.
in food poisoning and Independent food safety audits are also completed regularly at reputational damage.
our hotels, restaurants and coffee shops and the results are closely monitored.
We also invest considerable resources in employee training in the storage, handling and preparation of food.
Whitbread Principal risks Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 and uncertainties 37
