46 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 MANAGING OUR RISKS AN ACTIVE APPROACH THE BOARD RETAINS ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE GROUPS RISKMANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK.
A PROCESS IS IN PLACE TO FORMALLY REVIEW PRINCIPAL RISKS ACROSS THE GROUP AND TOENSURETHAT THE BOARD RECEIVES REGULAR ASSURANCE ASTOHOWTHE RISKS ARE BEING MANAGED.
PARTICULAR FOCUSISGIVENTOTHOSE RISKS WHICH MAY THREATEN OURSTRATEGIC PRIORITIES OR REGULATORY COMPLIANCE.
David Lowden Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Management Committee Assessing risk and putting steps in place Our approach Risk maps for each business unit have to respond appropriately is essential been prepared by local management The Board is responsible for the process both to protect our Group and to make and a consolidated view is presented to to determine and execute appropriate correct business decisions affecting our the Board, highlighting both perceived responses to potentially significant future.
We continue to balance risk with material changes in risk during the year risks in pursuit of the Groups strategic the opportunities the Group identies, and also any common themes for further objectives.
These actions are taken in the and an acceptance of a certain level review.
As with prior years this assessment context of a dened risk appetite which of risk is essential to allow the Group is an engrained and ongoing process has clear standards and denitions and to advance towards its strategic aims.
which helps define assurance plans and which is reviewed annually by the Board.
The management of these risks is an advisory support throughout the year.
During the year the Board re-afrmed the inherent part of our strategy and the Further evolution of our risk management existing risk appetite as being appropriate.
ongoing assurance provided to the Board practices is planned for 2016, including The Board confirms that its assessment delivers valuable insight into the progress closer alignment of our controls selfof the principal risks facing the Company, against these aims.
assessment process to the risk analysis including those that would threaten its with a particular focus on financial, business model, future performance, Prioritising risks regulatory and programme delivery risks solvency or liquidity, and which are set at a business unit level.
This process will out in this Managing our Risks section, We have set out the key risks facing the enhance yet further the ongoing assurance Group as approved by the Board.
provided to the Board throughout the year.
provide a view on the likelihood of these The Board, with the support of the Audit risks crystallising in the coming year Progress on risk management is monitored and Risk Management Committee, at the executive level and reported upon to and the potential impacts, along with an routinely monitors risks that could indicator of the change in risk compared the Boards Audit and Risk Management materially and adversely affect William Hills Committee.
An annual assessment is to the prior year assessment.
The narrative operational results, strategic and financial outlines how the Group is placed to deal also conducted and reported to the Audit goals and receives regular assurance and Risk Management Committee as to with risks as they impact the business.
through its Committees as to how these the effectiveness of the risk management risks are being managed and mitigated processes for the year.
The following is a summary of the Boards We continue to assess how best to assessment and response to the principal conduct risk management throughout the risks facing William Hill.
An explanation Group and confirm that we have formally of how the Group manages its various assessed risk in each strategic business financial risks is provided in notes to the unit with local management, and formed financial statements.
a consolidated view of risk with senior executives, prior to review and approval by the Board.
47 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Key: High Stable Governance Medium Increasing Low Decreasing Financial statements Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk High High Stable REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND CHANGE Whats the issue?
We actively engage with the UK We have well-resourced in-house We have combined risks relating to Government and regulatory bodies to compliance functions and have changing regulatory environments and discuss the measures by which we full our complianceofcers in all of our strategic our ongoing compliance requirements.
obligations under the licensing objectives business units who are a core part of Failure to meet standards required in the UK.
the local management teams, ensuring by regulatory bodies may result in compliance has a voice at the top table In the UK, in addition to our ongoing significant business interruption, fines or in each location.
Compliance processes support and continued adherence to the reputational damage.
and controls across the Group are voluntary ABB Code, William Hill remains well established and the compliance Holding licences in key markets, such as a committed member of the Senet Group, functions operate independently of with the Nevada Gaming Commission, is which aims to promote responsible operational management both to an essential part of our growth strategy gambling standards and to hold its support managements compliance and therefore the risk of breaching local members to account.
obligations and to provide ongoing licensing regulations is clear and must In addition to our core commitment assurance over the adherence to local be managed and monitored.
A bi-monthly Group to support the British Gambling a need to continually update processes Commissions core licensing objectives, Compliance Committee provides all and controls to ensure compliance and compliance ofcers with direct access to the Group remains committed to upholding to review the ongoing changes to our the standards required in all of our licensed the Group CEO and ensures compliance business across the Group to assess the issues are shared across the Group to territories as they continue to evolve.
impact on our licensing position.
We maintain dialogue with regulators and allow for the identication of trends and common issues.
other key stakeholders in our licensed What are we doing to territories internationally, continually monitor address theissue?
The Group Risk and Audit function also the changing legal landscape and adapt We remain wholly confident that investment considers regulatory compliance as our strategy on a country-by-country basis in our compliance and assurance functions a core part of audit delivery, reporting to changes in regulation.
A high proportion allows us to identify, understand and directly to the Audit and Risk Management of Onlines revenues are derived from address changing regulatory requirements Committee, as an independent third line licensed territories, which mitigates risks in an efficient and effective manner.
associated with operating on a non-locally licensed basis.
Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Medium High Increasing EXECUTION OF IT STRATEGY Whats the issue?
Failure to execute the IT strategy could Ongoing investment will continue to focus The demand for stability and availability of cause other key risks to crystallise, as well on reducing this risk further.
our core platforms has never been higher, as having a direct impact on customers.
Where key dependencies exist we have both as a global business sharing elements robust contracts in place and are working of our trading platforms across differing What are we doing to with suppliers to ensure those agreements time zones, and increasingly around the address theissue?
meet our changing business needs.
clock with significant peaks in activity Our strategy over the last 18 months driven by key sporting events.
has seen investment in core technology Investment in IT remains a core pillar of platforms, reducing reliance on third our strategy, and the recent appointment Technology is also key to being able to parties as we take direct ownership of of anew Chief Information officer CIO differentiate within our markets, hence our own platforms and systems, including reects our commitment to continue our technology must enable a high the launch of our Trafalgar platform in the strengthening our IT capabilities.
Where speed to market and deliver a great user Online business and the introduction of appropriate good practice in technology experience, whilst still meeting stability and our Riga interface which allows us to utilise isshared across the Group.
content from multiple suppliers within our core Vegas platform.
48 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 MANAGING OUR RISKS Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Medium High Increasing CYBER CRIME AND SECURITY Whats the issue?
What are we doing to We undertake regular external security Technology-focused businesses address theissue?
scans and have controls in place to continue to see increased threats of Our technology security arrangements mitigate the effects of denial of service unauthorised access to data or systems, have proven sufficient to prevent material attacks against our systems.
We work misappropriation of funds or significant damage to our business up to this with a number of specialist IT partners to down-time from cyber crime or malicious point in time.
We have not suffered any ensure that our security arrangements and activities.
Increasingly sophisticated material loss of functionality, data security systems are well structured, sufficient for protection techniques and growing breaches or financial loss as a result of the our current needs and up-to-date with the investment in technology and people are exploitation of security vulnerabilities in the latest IT security developments and to learn required to prevent or mitigate significant period.
However, the continually evolving from any incidents experienced across financial, operational and reputational and growing threat ensures that we are not the Group.
damage associated with such breaches.
complacent and we continue to review and The 24 7 nature of the sports betting enhance our security offering internally and and online gaming industries, and the through the use of specialist third parties.
increasing digital footprint of our global operations, mean that this risk is a material and increasing threat facing the Group.
Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk High Medium Increasing COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE Whats the issue?
What are we doing to forward our Omni-channel strategy The last year has seen a number of address theissue?
in our UK business, drawing on the high prole changes to the competitive Whilst the wider market remains distracted complementary and unique strengths of landscape, in particular the completion by the mechanics of internal changes, our Retail and Online offering to enhance of mergers within the UK bookmaking William Hill remains focused on the our customer experience: actively sought industry, as well as other intended mergers development of its leading market position to compete in the market through the yet to complete.
Longer term these and well placed to take advantage of new launch of mobile apps in Australia and changes are likely to alter the dynamics opportunities as they arise.
the US, including the in-play service: of the industry and will no doubt result in consolidated our multi-brand offerings We remain committed to the presence increased competition to attract and retain into one William Hill brand in Australia: of William Hill as a leading brand in our customers, which may impact margins and invested in an online lottery business to core markets and to the increasing put pressure on market share.
provide access to new product streams: internationalisation of our brand and and successfully launched the WH Labs business, and we understand how the accelerator programme, demonstrating our changing competitive landscape will affect commitment to innovation.
our business in these markets.
We have consistently demonstrated our ability to These developments are illustrations of our differentiate our brand in crowded markets ability to deliver effectively to the market and to support this in the last year alone and to differentiate our Group in crowded we have: launched Project Trafalgar in our local markets under one Group brand.
Online business: continued to drive 49 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Medium Medium Stable TALENT Whats the issue?
Overall the Group provides competitive To address the range of challenges a salary and benets packages, including business as complex as ours faces it short-term bonuses and long-term is essential we maintain and develop a share-based incentives, and regularly focused leadership team and have access reviews these for competitiveness.
to a number of highly-skilled specialists Employees are encouraged to become across the Group.
owners of the business through annual Save-As-You-Earn programmes.
What are we doing to The Board has visibility of key leadership address theissue?
remuneration arrangements through the During the period there have been a Remuneration Committee.
series of managed transitions in the The Group continues to utilise robust core management team, allowing our appraisal and goal-setting processes and CEO to establish a team aligned to the performs annual talent reviews with the strategic aims of the business and with senior management team.
The Group the core skills required to deliver the vision.
regularly reviews the levels of employee Continuing investment in recruiting and engagement through an annual employee integrating key senior hires to supplement survey and implements specic action the existing core management team plans to address areas of improvement.
underpins our commitment to the growth strategy.
Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Medium Medium Decreasing FISCAL CHANGE Whats the issue?
What are we doing to The Group remains exposed to the impact address theissue?
of taxation changes in all key markets, There remains a requirement to ensure that which cannot be directly passed on to cost savings and efficiencies throughout our customers, and therefore impacts the the Group help mitigate increasing costs bottom line.
Both the Point of Consumption outside the Groups control.
The Group Tax and Machine Games Duty changes actively engages in relevant government impacted in 2015, but are built into budgets consultations.
Our continued international and forecasts, and at the prior year-end expansion makes the risk of taxation the timing of the general election drove change more likely, if not certain, to some uncertainty as to the UK tax position.
However, Therefore, the risk of further tax changes it actively reduces the reliance on any affecting profitability is reduced compared individual country and will lessen the to the last risk assessment.
impact of changes imposed by any one government.
50 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 MANAGING OUR RISKS Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk High Low Stable BUSINESS CONTINUITY MANAGEMENT AND DISASTER RECOVERY Whats the issue?
What are we doing to We will also continue to test and rehearse Over recent years the Group has had address theissue?
our people, technology and building to address a number of potentially The Group now has access to Business services infrastructure to ensure that significant business interruptions, often Continuity sites in our core UK locations, business continuity capability and with external causes and the potential to multiple sites or bespoke Business readiness is embedded in the culture cause major interruption to our operations.
Continuity facilities in key overseas of the business.
Failure to adequately respond to business locations or the ability to rely on tested and interruptions may result in unnecessary proven exible ways of working in other loss of business or adversely impact locations.
Further back-up IT systems customers experience.
In all cases we have been put in place for a number of have realised the benefit of our ongoing business critical systems, generally in investment in preparations for business different geographic locations from the interruption and the resulting impact from main system.
However, this is not intended an operational and technology perspective to be a full duplication of the operational has been successfully managed.
systems as this would not be cost effective, so some day-to-day activities could be curtailed in the short term should an incident occur.
Viability statement The following statement is made in The directors assessment includes a the assumption that the Group will accordance with Code provision C2.2.
financial review, which is derived from the be able to effectively mitigate risks After considering the current position of Groups annual medium-term strategic through enacted or available actions, the Company, the directors have assessed forecasts and identies the expected cash as described in this section Managing the prospects and viability of the Company ows, net debt headroom and funding our Risks.
over a three-year period to December covenant compliance throughout the three The sensitivity analysis considers all of our 2018.
In making this statement, the Board years under review.
These forecasts also principal risks, although our assumption has performed a robust assessment of incorporate severe but plausible downside that we will be able to effectively mitigate the principal risks facing the Company, case scenarios, illustrating the potential some of our risks leads to a greater including those risks that would threaten impact upon viability of one or more of emphasis on those risks that are beyond William Hills business model, future the Groups principal risks crystallising our control such as regulatory changes.
during the period, both individually and Through this analysis, the directors have The principal risks facing William Hill and in combination.
A number of reasonable concluded that we do not face a risk to how the Company addresses such risks assumptions are included within these our viability except in the event of highly are described in this Strategic Report and assessments, including: improbable combinations of material the key risks are summarised in this section the assumption that funding facilities will events within the three-year window.
continue to be available or renewed on Based on this conclusion, the directors Although longer-term forecasts are the same or similar basis throughout the have a reasonable expectation that the prepared to support the strategic planning period under review: Company will be able to continue in process, the nature of the risks and the assumption that, following a operation and meet its liabilities as they fall opportunities faced by the Group in material risk event, the Group would due over the period of the assessment.
particular, the possible impact of future adjust strategic capital management scal and regulatory changes and the pace to preserve cash, but would not curtail of technological change limits the directors normal capital investment or adjust ability to reliably predict the longer term.
dividend policies: and Accordingly, a three-year horizon is used to allow for a greater degree of certainty in our assumptions.
