Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Strategic report 30 Our risks Managing our risks Recognising the effect of uncertainty on our business means that we are in a better position to achieve our objectives, respond to emerging risks and create opportunities.
The realisation of our business strategy depends on Risk is managed via our choice of business strategy, our ability to make sound, risk-informed decisions.
underpinned by our culture and values.
Managing risk and uncertainty is an integral part The annual and on-going elements of our risk ofdoing business.
Now more than ever, we manage management framework are embedded within increasing uncertainty as we continue to expand into thebusiness.
These support the identication and new channels, and transform our business systems effective management of risks across the business.
and processes to respond to rapid changes in We continue to conduct activity to increase colleague our industry.
awareness of risk and risk appetite, and to further We maintain a business wide understanding of our embed a risk management culture in the business.
keyrisks and how to manage them.
This assists in Read more on the risk management process delivering our promises to customers and shareholders.
in the Audit Committee report on page 43.
Risk management framework Top down Board of Directors The Board is responsible for establishing a robust and appropriate risk management framework.
It has primary  the overall Group strategy which informs the setting of objectives across the business and is widelycommunicated.
It is also responsible for risk governance and overseeing the risks associated with the Groups activitiestoensure that they align with our risk appetite.
The Board approves the Group Risk Register.
Audit Committee Management Board Supports the Board in monitoring risk exposure against our Provides challenge to operational management through risk appetite.
Reviews the effectiveness of our risk its review of cross-functional risks and considers key risks management and internal control systems, including the reported in functional risk registers.
During the year it Risk and Internal Audit function.
Agrees the Internal Audit conducted a full bottom up exercise to refresh the Group plan and audit scope which is designed to provide assurance Risk Register with assistance from Risk and Internal Audit.
Each Board member certies annually that functional risk registers following the process set out below have been refreshed, and that action plans are in place, where necessary.
Risk and Internal Audit Operational Management Bottom up Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 31 The risk management process Plans for 2015 16 The risk management process is applied to all identified We will continue to develop and build on our existing risks.
It allows us to understand, evaluate and take risk management framework, and align with recent appropriate action in relation to our risks.
Operational changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
management within the business bear most of the Our priorities for 2015 16 include: responsibility for risk management.
Following the formalising key risk indicators for Group risks and identication and measurement of risks, depending commencing regular reporting of these: and on our risk appetite, we either accept the risks or take reviewing and updating the Internal Audit activity action to reduce, transfer or mitigate them.
plan following the Group Risk Register refresh.
Significant effort is placed on risk management activities The refresh of the Group Risk Register in the year has within each function.
This includes ensuring the resulted in some changes from those risks disclosed control frameworks are designed to address risks, are last year.
Specically external market, competitor embedded properly within day-to-day procedures, proposition, supply chain and data are now reported andthat monitoring and reporting takes place.
as separate risks following industry and market Key activity and developments during 2014 15 include: events in the year.
Previously these were included inbusiness strategy, trading optimisation, customer full refresh of the Group Risk Register by the proposition and regulation.
Management Board: creation and review of Risk Registers for new Space optimisation has been removed as a separate business areas: risk with capital discipline being included in the financial strategy risk.
more frequent review of cross-functional risksatManagement Board level, for example, The risks have been split into two categories based risksrelating to health and safety and data on how the Board review and manage the risks.
protection: and High Impact, Low Likelihood HILL risks: functional Risk Register reviews.
those which have a low inherent likelihood but which, if they did occur, could have a major impact.
These are typically managed by policies and procedures which are reviewed and tested by the Board on an annual basis.
Strategic risks: those which would impact the successful execution of the Groups strategy.
These are reviewed by the Board on a more frequent basis as the risk level can alter based on the actions taken by us or in the market.
Each principal risk has been mapped to the relevant key strategic priorities.
All strategic risks are owned by at least one member of the Management Board.
Process level risks are not seen as principal risksfortheGroup.
These risks are managed byoperational management.
The movement of each risk at a gross level and themitigations in place to manage the risk are alsodisclosed.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Strategic report 32 Our risks Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has identied those risks which it sees as most significant HILL risks Strategic risks S I G S I Food and product safety Business strategy Risk Mitigation Risk Mitigation If we fail to deliver excellent Strict standards and monitoring The Board understands that We have a clear strategy based standards of hygiene and processes established to manage ifthe strategy and vision of on four pillars of save, invest, safety in our products, there food safety risks throughout the thebusiness are not properly grow and cash generation: ispotential to harm our Group and supply chain: formulated, communicated or Engagement with a wide group customers and damage implemented, then the long ISO 22000 accreditation of food of stakeholders to ensure the ourbusiness reputation.
term aims of the Group may manufacturing businesses: strategy remains current: Ourbusiness focuses on fresh not be met and the business Regular supplier assessments Communication of strategy foodand we have a vertically may suffer and benefits undertaken to ensure adherence via numerous channels: integrated business model: maynot be delivered tostandards: and Clear link between strategic therefore, food safety and the tostakeholders.
Food Safety Steering Group, targets and business plans integrity of our supplychain theBoard and Management : and are of paramount importance.
Boardprovide oversight of Close Board monitoring operational activities.
S I G C Major business interruption Financial strategy Risk Mitigation Risk Mitigation Our distribution and Detailed recovery plans exist The main risks are the The Groups treasury function  are forsites and systems: availability of funding and is responsible for the forward fundamental to ensuring the management of cash flow planning and management Investment in remote IT disaster normal continuity of trading, tomeet business needs.
They report to the recovery site and regular testing whether that is via our stores Treasury Committee and ofrecovery plans: or online.
If a major incident operate within clear policies and Adherence to a stringent process occurred to this infrastructure procedures which are reviewed for evaluating new suppliers or another key facility, this andaudited: and thirdparties: could have a detrimental Progress against the financial Contingency arrangements impact on our ability to strategy is regularly reviewed confirmed for key suppliers: and operate effectively.
and monitored by the A Crisis Management Group is in ManagementBoard.
place to deal with any unplanned orunforeseen events.
S I G Data security Risk Mitigation The Group believes it is The Group has a number of Key essential that the security information security policies of customer, colleague, andprocedures in place: Save S supplier and company The Information Management confidential data is maintained Steering Group has the Invest I securely.
A major breach of responsibility for looking at data Grow G information security could management practices, policies, have a significant impact on awareness and training: and Generate cash C the reputation of the business.
Ongoing monitoring, reporting and mediation of vulnerabilities isin place.
No change Increase to residual risk Decrease to residual risk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 33 I S I G Colleague engagement and development Competitor proposition and price Risk Mitigation Risk Mitigation We are a people business and our Competitive employment policies, The UK grocery market Competitor pricing positions and colleagues are key to being able remuneration and benefits packages continues to be extremely market trends are reviewed on a to fulfil our promises.
If we fail to are established and regularly reviewed: competitive.
We also review and retain, develop and motivate our of competitor proposition actively manage our own key price significant investment in training colleagues, we will not provide and pricing changes could points, sales proposition, and and development, including the quality of service that our affect the performance of promotional and marketing Morrisons Academy: customers expect.
Development the Group in terms of sales, campaigns: and Regular talent reviews and refresh of new channels and delivery costs and operations.
Credit checks and monitoring ofsuccession plans to meet the future ofstrategic objectives increases of suppliers are conducted.
We also needs of the business: There is also a risk that therisk of being able to attract maintain open and regular dialogue supplier failure or a change Colleague engagement surveys specific talent.
in supplier pricing could undertaken to understand and inleadership will need to be have operational or financial respondto colleague concerns: and managed to ensure colleague consequences for the Group.
Plan to manage leadership change engagement is maintained.
C S I G External market forces IT systems upgrade Risk Mitigation Risk Mitigation Economic changes including The Groups pension liabilities We have replaced and We partner with some of the changes in the value of the are monitored by the Treasury upgraded systems in our worlds leading technology companies Groups pension schemes Committee with a clear investment business to provide for key projects: and commodity fluctuations strategy in place.
In February 2015 industry-leading software Project management methodology could impact the Groups weannounced the start of consultation capability.
We continue to isapplied to all IT projects and profitability and balance to close the Groups defined benefit roll out new systems and programmes: and sheet strength.
schemes to future accrual which will decommission legacy IT Regular reviews are undertaken help reduce this risk: and systems.
We are aware of by Risk and Internal Audit the risks and potential Commodity prices are reviewed and and other specialists to provide for delays and increased monitored each week.
The Group assurance over significant IT projects costs associated with hasclear policies around hedging of and programmes delivering into delivering successful IT commodity risks and seeks to hedge the business.
S I G S I G Supply chain management and integrity Regulation Risk Mitigation Risk Mitigation Recent issues in the sector Morrisons manufactures a large The Group operates in an An established governance framework regarding the integrity and proportion of the fresh food it environment governed by including compliance monitoring and sourcing of food include the sells, contracting directly with farmers strictregulations including reporting is in place: discovery of horsemeat and growers: competition, employment, There are clear accountabilities and substituted for beef in 2013. health and safety, and Thorough checks are in place at processes in place for the monitoring Our vertical integration model regulations over the Groups all our own production facilities as of regulatory developments and the and focus on supply chain products.
In all cases, the Board well as those who produce for us: and compliance with existing regulation: integrity means that these takes its responsibilities very We have visibility over all own Processes are in place for delivering have not impacted Morrisons, seriously and recognises that brand suppliers ethical and responsible training to impacted colleagues in as highlighted in the Elliott breach of regulation can lead business practices through Sedex.
relation to regulation: and report July 2014.
However, toreputational and financial The internal legal department provides itremains a risk that damages to the Group.
management is focused on and continues to monitor.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Governance 34 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 35
