48 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties We recognise that effective risk management is fundamental to helping us achieve our strategic and operational objectives.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 49 Principal risks and uncertainties continued The Board reviews the Group operational and strategic Board risk registers at least quarterly.
It delegates authority for the service delivery process and risk management process to senior management.
The Group Risk Committee, chaired by the Group CEO, Audit and Group Risk oversees the operation of the Groups risk management Committees framework and provides support to the Board and the Audit Committee.
It reviews the Group operational and strategic risk registers regularly.
Consolidates the risks submitted by functional areas and Group commercial businesses to compile the Groups key risks.
Operational and risk management risk logs are updated monthly and strategic risk logs director quarterly.
Senior management of each business Senior management of Group creates a register of the top risks and functional areas identifies the key risks mitigation actions and develop mitigation actions Effective risk management is embedded The registers are routinely reviewed by We continue to manage a number of in our governance framework, which is the Group Risk Committee.
It also receives potential risks and uncertainties which summarised in the Corporate governance presentations from selected risk owners could have a material impact on our report pages 72 to 79. to provide a more detailed explanation strategic and operational objectives.
of the risk, including the associated Many of these risks are common to other Our risk management framework supports mitigation measures, controls and key companies and we assess them regularly the Board in assessing and determining actions that are required to manage it.
to establish the principal risks for the nature and extent of the significant the Group.
risks it is willing to accept in achieving We also assess all potential project its strategic and operational objectives.
opportunities using an online service The table outlines the principal risks, delivery process which includes a risk the mitigating activities undertaken in This framework, and the associated risk categorisation tool that scores and ranks respect of each of them and indicates management structure, allow us to these opportunities using a traffic light the direction of change of each in the identify consistently, assess, prioritise, system.
This determines the risk profile year.
We continue to assess these risks manage and report risks of both a and is one factor that informs the required under two main categories: strategic strategic and operational nature.
Our level of review of each opportunity as it and operational.
strategic and operational risk registers moves through the Groups stage gate allow us to assign owners and mitigation bid approval process.
This process, Where applicable, the table crossstrategies to identified risks.
Ownership combined with the risk management references principal risks with segmentis not the exclusive responsibility of framework, is applied across the Group specific risks.
senior management but is passed down and is designed to achieve progressive to appropriate staff members.
improvement in the quality and rigour of our bidding process.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 50 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk increasing Risk decreasing No material change to risk Strategic Risk in alphabetical order Mitigation Activities in the year Change ended 31 March 2015 in year We have increased our sector and We are focused on targeting growth Economic outlook geographic diversification to provide in well-funded infrastructure markets.
Imposition of government austerity resilience at a time when many of our measures has an impact on our trading During the year we increased the markets still experience uncertainty.
performance as spending on public utilisation of our Indian GDCs, increasing We have a clear strategic priority to focus sector infrastructure is reduced.
staff numbers across our two sites on sectors which have attractive growth Delhi and Bangalore.
Worsening economic conditions lead prospects with good levels of funding.
to reduced levels of private sector We reshaped our business so that nearly infrastructure spend and have an adverse 50% of our revenue is now delivered impact on our clients ability to pay for outside the UK.
Our medium-term goal our services.
is to generate more than 75% of revenue from our non-UK and Energy businesses.
To provide resilience and remain competitive, we utilise our global design centres GDCs in India to support market opportunities and projects across the regions in which we operate.
We seek to redeploy our people around the Group to meet demand in growth markets and sectors, frequently moving work to people and people to work to enhance Group agility and staff utilisation.
We perform periodic client credit checks and maintain regular management reviews of credit terms, trade debtors and work in progress.
Financial We review the Groups trading and In early 2015, we amended and extended A deterioration of the Groups financial funding position on an ongoing basis.
our five year revolving credit facility of position limits our ability to invest 200m which now matures in 2020.
This The Groups treasury function manages in growth.
is in addition to our 2012 debut issue in and monitors external funding and the US private placement market, which investment requirements and risks arising Adverse movements in liability together broaden the sources of funding from the Groups financial instruments assumptions or asset values result in a available to the Group.
risks, including foreign exchange risk, significant increase in the Groups defined interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk We have continued to monitor and benefit pension obligations, increasing and liquidity risk.
manage our strategy to fide-risk our the cash funding required to repay the defined benefit pension schemes during deficit and reducing our ability to invest We have made good progress in 2015.
In 2014, we successfully concluded in further growth opportunities.
implementing our strategy to continue our negotiations on the triennial actuarial to fide-risk our defined benefit pension funding valuation with the Trustee of schemes.
We will continue to manage the Atkins Pension Plan, which resulted the assets and liabilities of our pension in an extension of the associated deficit schemes.
Further information is contained in the United Kingdom and Europe review page 27.
Geopolitical We have focused on geographies that The operational leadership team and Political instability in the regions within have more stable trading markets and senior management periodically review which we operate has a negative impact environments with regional growth geopolitical influences that have the on our ability to deliver contractual resulting from economic diversity, potential to affect the economic and services and receive payment, and population growth and urbanisation.
safety environment in our operating endangers the safety of our people.
We closely monitor our operating geographies and markets to identify During the year we developed a security Political transition leads to uncertainty geopolitical change that could potentially standard for our staff when working in or deadlock delaying government have an impact on the trading conditions low, medium and high risk geographies.
Testing of this standard is underway in anticipation of a Group wide roll out We obtain the latest professional risk and during the year ending 31 March 2016. security information provided by external organisations before engaging in contracts Further information is contained in the in new geographies and we regularly Middle East review page 37, Asia Pacific monitor the economic stability and the review page 40 and North America security of the markets in which we review page 34. continue to trade.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 51 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk increasing Risk decreasing No material change to risk Strategic continued Risk in alphabetical order Mitigation Activities in the year Change ended 31 March 2015 in year We have robust, integrated online service We are continuing to drive operational Market delivery review processes, which include performance across the Group to improve Worsening market conditions, for risk classification, peer reviews and Group our margins.
example a fall in commodity prices or a authority approvals during the key stages shift in industry demand, lead to changes We continue to embed our integrated of bidding work, entering into contracts in contracts resulting in increased risk online service delivery process across the and during delivery of our projects.
transfer from clients as competitors Group and this year we implemented accept more onerous contract terms We continue to focus our strategy on successfully the online service delivery to win work.
sectors with strong sustainable growth process in Asia Pacific and commenced prospects, good levels of funding and the implementation of the process in Reductions in the amount of available higher technical barriers to entry.
work increase pricing pressure and reduce our operating margins.
We have a strategic focus on operational During the year, we carried out a review excellence and, through a series of of our online service delivery process initiatives together with the increasing use to ensure it continues to provide a robust of our GDCs in India, we aim to deliver a standard for winning, delivering and competitive cost base while also supporting reducing contract and commercial risk and enabling growth across the Group.
During the second half of the year we have taken action to reduce our resources in our oil and gas business, redeploying elsewhere within the Group where possible, in response to reduced demand for our services from a number of our clients as they have reacted to the fall in oil prices.
We seek external advice about new and The Group code of conduct was launched Regulatory legal or changing trading restrictions, during the year with all our people either Legislation and regulations restrict our communicating these changes across receiving or being provided with access ability to operate in certain locations or our business as necessary.
To ensure that all our people perform certain activities leading to the have read and understood the code, need to exit these markets.
We operate a Group trading standard and an e-learning module has been built and Breaches of regulation or legislation result associated country approval list, detailing tested ready for launch during the year in fines, imprisonment and reputational the approved procedure for trading ending 31 March 2016. damage.
The country approval list details the risk profile for countries around During the year the Group trading the world across matters including trade standard and the associated country restrictions, corruption and travel security, approval list have been reviewed and which determine the level of approval updated, and these are accessible to all required to trade there.
our people via our intranet.
We continue to invest in training and communication in the area of compliance.
We have a whistleblower hotline that is available to all our people, suppliers, subcontractors, clients and third parties.
Operational Risk in alphabetical order Mitigation Activities in the year Change ended 31 March 2015 in year We have a Group crisis management plan A review of the Groups crisis management Crisis event in place to enable us to respond quickly plan was carried out during the year, as A significant one-off event affecting a key business location, project or our to such events.
was our plan in the Middle East.
This people could interrupt service delivery, included a simulated exercise of a regional crisis event that was escalated threaten life and or cause reputational to the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 52 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk increasing Risk decreasing No material change to risk Operational continued Risk in alphabetical order Mitigation Activities in the year Change ended 31 March 2015 in year Safety is part of our commitment to Our standard to assess the competency Health, safety and environmental quality and reliability.
Clear and explicit of construction contractors and set the Shortcomings in our design or works senior management leadership on health, minimum requirements expected on supervision result in a health, safety safety and environmental matters is site during the supervision of the services or environmental incident involving our regularly reinforced via targeted campaigns.
and works continued to be communicated people, clients or other third parties leading to injury, loss of life and or to Group businesses around the world Our Group wide behavioural awareness during the year.
Further information is significant damage to our reputation programme, Safe and Secure by Choice, contained in the Middle East review with all stakeholders.
supports our commitment to creating page 37. a leading health and safety culture.
During the year we developed a security We have implemented our safety standard for our people when working in standards worldwide.
low, medium and high risk geographies.
We mandate accident and near-miss Testing of this standard is underway reporting and provide a whistleblower in anticipation of a Group wide roll out hotline to enable our people, suppliers, during the year ending 31 March 2016. subcontractors, clients and third parties We also developed the Atkins operating to raise concerns confidentially.
safely AOS system this year.
The system We invest in training of and includes an online risk assessment and communication to our people about enables employees to be tracked while the importance of safety and security working on site.
It has initially been in the workplace.
implemented in the United Kingdom and Europe with a wider roll-out to the rest of the Group planned during 2015 16.
The International Standard for Driving, ISO 39001, has been adopted providing a minimum standard across the Group.
The whole Group, apart from Europe, currently uses the travel tracker system through local travel providers.
Implementation of the standard in Europe is planned during the financial year ending 31 March 2016.
Part of our code of conduct focuses on the safety behaviours of our employees, highlighting the importance of reporting health and safety incidents.
The Safe and Secure by Choice awareness campaign rolled out during the year includes sections on personal safety, able to challenge, driving and near miss reporting.
We use appropriate physical security, During the year, we continued to provide Physical and data security Confidential client business and or secure networks and encryption to information assurance guidance and personal data is mishandled, resulting protect data.
Information assurance guidance and behaviour based in breach of contract, the inappropriate We train our people and provide guidance training modules for the Group are also release of commercially sensitive on best practice in information assurance.
being developed to complement and information or the loss of the personal The Group security officer seeks to ensure improve the effectiveness of our controls information of our clients and or our best practice and continually raise the in this area and these will be made people.
profile of security across the business.
available to all our people.
Our business systems suffer an attack We have developed a security standard from hackers or viruses.
protecting our people and property and The safety and security of our people an information assurance standard.
are scheduled to be rolled out during the financial year ending 31 March 2016.
Recognising the increasing focus on privacy, the protection of personal data and the expectations of our clients, people and other stakeholders in this regard, a Group data protection manager was appointed to develop our approach to data protection further.
Achieved certification to the UK Governments new Cyber Essentials Plus standard.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 53 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk increasing Risk decreasing No material change to risk Operational continued Risk in alphabetical order Mitigation Activities in the year Change ended 31 March 2015 in year We continue to implement our online We continued during the year to invest Projects project management system to drive in increasing the project management Poor management of projects leads to consistently high standards across the capabilities across all sectors people, client dissatisfaction, damage to our Group.
processes and systems by developing reputation for technical excellence and a new project management competency a deterioration in the Groups financial We invest in ongoing project management performance.
excellence training programmes for our people.
We continually improve project controls, which include regular financial reviews of project performance.
Regular business reviews evaluate During the year we regularly reviewed Staff recruitment and retention a number of metrics including headcount, data relating to headcount, staff turnover, Failure to attract and retain the most staff turnover, vacancy levels and vacancy levels and employee talented, motivated professionals in employee engagement.
their respective fields makes us unable to deliver on clients expectations and We maintain a succession management Sector succession plans are developed, respond to the most technically plan across the Group.
reviewed and implemented each year challenging and time critical projects, to ensure that we retain our best talent.
Regular succession planning reviews thereby eroding our market share and provide support for internal mobility, A talent management pilot has been damaging our financial performance.
development of an effective talent pipeline launched to focus on our high potential and career path management.
people in succession management planning across the Group.
An annual review of our staff engagement through our Viewpoint survey ensures We implemented improvements across that the morale and motivation of our the Group during the year to define and people is managed effectively.
support career paths within the Group including technical, project management, business management and business development routes.
We continue to use a variety of channels, including our annual Viewpoint survey, to engage in a two way dialogue with our people.
Our robust service delivery process, We have continued to develop our Technical delivery Design errors or omissions lead to client and the associated stage gate review standard in project manager competence dissatisfaction, financial losses and procedures during the bidding, and development and electronic data contracting, delivery and completion management across all sectors during damage to our reputation for technical stage, ensure that the Group has the the year.
capability to deliver the technical We developed a technical assurance requirements within our contracts.
standard during the year establishing the We use seven design principles which minimum assurance requirement for our govern all our technical work and are technical deliverables to our clients in the embedded in our business management Group.
We also refreshed the technical system.
Technical reviews and checking assurance guidance in our business during delivery of our projects remains management system.
During 2014, we set up a working group Our technical assurance guidance is of representatives from all our operating included within our business management businesses and relevant corporate system.
functions to develop and disseminate best practice regarding technical We have implemented a programme assurance and governance.
of continual technical training and development.
Network chairs lead our technical centresof excellence across the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
