Principal risks and their management Risk management atWolseley Monitoring risk throughout the Group The Board, Audit and Executive Committees review risk and control in the context of the Groups strategic plan and objectives.
Throughout the year, information is provided directly from front line operations, via corporate functions and independent audits.
Board, Executive Committee and Audit Committee Fourth level Principal risks formally reviewed every six months by the Board and Executive.
Thresholds for principal risks agreed.
Controls and overall system of risk management reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Audit reports throughout the year Performance reports Employee whistleblowing line Risk reports in March and September 3.
Front line business operations Corporate 2.
Corporate functions Audit findings functions analyse inform Internal audit, external auditors and other and line management Group and subsidiary level, risk and control assessments independent experts.
e. g. branches, distribution centres e. g. risk, treasury, finance, legal and IT data, set policies of control and procedures effectiveness by First level Second level Third level Group Risk team Operations Business operations implement policies Set policies and procedures.
Test the design and effectiveness of report on risk and Reports from and procedures.
Employees act in line procedures and controls.
control status Group Risk Monitor risks and controls.
with the Companys Code of Conduct.
and submit influence audit performance priorities and Collate and submit risk reports.
metrics, e. g. plans for the injury statistics coming year Wolseley plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Developing risk management Independent assurance We have made at Wolseley Internal Audit continues to work closely with solid improvements other risk and compliance functions across Driving performance systematically is a the Group to plan and deliver effective key objective for the Group.
This applies in how we run our assurance.
Specialist external advice and as much to the continuous improvement audits have been obtained for certain risks.
of risk management systems as to business and manage other performance-related activities.
Improvements are made to the front line 2015 risk assessment risk they are one controls, to policies and procedures set by Wolseley formally reviews its principal Group corporate functions and to internal audit.
and business unit risks every six months atthe half-year and at the year-end.
But we can never be Front line business operations In January and July 2015, the Board This year has seen reviews of operating complacent and our provided its perspective on risks relating procedures in branches across the to the Groups strategy for 2015 16 and work will continue.
Group in relation to cash, credit and sales beyond.
A number of strategic risks were controls, inventory management, security, re-prioritised, and greater focus was placed Ian Meakins health and safety and transportation on information security risks.
This input Group Chief Executive compliance.
Branch-specific improvements was combined with bottom-up risk reports are underway where an individual branch received from business units in February has not met the standards expected of it.
and August 2015 to produce an overall risk Standard operating procedures have been report for the Group.
This risk report, listing principal and Wolseleys businesses are implementing emerging Group risks and key business a number of Group-wide programmes unit risks, was agreed with the Executive designed to improve our management of Committee in March and September.
The status of a number of these A discussion of high impact, low frequency key programmes, for example product events was also held.
The principal risks integrity, anti-bribery and information and controls were then discussed with the security, has been reviewed and Audit Committee.
The results of this exercise are summarised in this section.
Corporate functions Group policies and procedures play an important role in setting the tone at the top and ensuring Wolseleys businesses are not exposed to unacceptable levels of risk.
The Group has updated its overall policy framework to clarify expectations and to better align policies with the Groups objectives, risks and compliance requirements.
Financial and non-financial thresholds for determining acceptable levels of risk have also been reviewed.
Wolseley plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal risks and their management continued brandproducts at competitive prices.
The chart shows managements Strategy, growth and risk In addition, the Company seeks to remain assessment of material risks before appetite at the forefront of bringing the latest product mitigation.
Various mitigation strategies are The Groups strategy is set out on page 10. innovations to our customers.
As such, employed to reduce these inherent risks to As it pursues this strategy, the Company the Groups product range is continually an acceptable level.
takes proportionate and considered changing and this will continue to include The effectiveness of these mitigation risks to maximise profitable growth and a small percentage of own brand products strategies can change over time, for sustainable returns for its investors.
In doing so, the Group is example with the acquisition or disposal Decisions taken throughout the year by the inherently exposed to product-related risks, of businesses.
Some of these risks remain Board and its Executive Committee have such as product underperformance and beyond the direct control of the Group.
been underpinned by a number of factors.
When mitigated, The risk management programme, including the Group is willing to accept these risks risk assessments, can therefore only provide Markets as an inherent part of its business model reasonable but not absolute assurance that and strategy.
The Group has broadly completed the risks are managed to an acceptable level.
reshaping of its portfolio of businesses and The Group faces many other risks Compliance and regulation it is operating in attractive and fragmented which, although important and subject markets with excellent growth opportunities.
In certain areas, the Company seeks to to regular review, have been assessed As such, the Companys appetite for minimise and eliminate risk where possible.
as less significant and are not listed here.
seeking growth in new geographical For example, the Group seeks to comply These include, for example, changes in markets is limited.
This means that the with all laws and regulations to which it is commodity prices, foreign exchange rates Company will likely continue to be exposed subject, including those relating to antior employee retention and motivation.
to the same market pressures and competitive behaviours, anti-bribery, trade Financial risks and their management are geographical concentrations of revenues compliance or accounting regulations.
summarised between pages 30 and 35. and profits as in previous years.
The Companys activities give rise to an Further information on Wolseleys People inherent level of risks to the health and safety Strategy can be found on page 37.
The Group will always Health and safety related risks are described seek to provide a safe and healthy working on page 38 in the Sustainability section.
Organic growth underpins the Companys environment and we will not compromise strategy, supplemented by disciplined the health and safety of any individual.
The Group only acquires Heat map no controls businesses that will help us to achieve our Principal risks strategic goals, where we can deliver rapid The heat map below illustrates the relative integration synergies and where we can This years risk assessment process positioning of our principal risks by severity achieve a sensible price.
took into account the factors and likelihood, before controls are applied.
outlined above, including the Groups New technologies and investments, new business models a investment andthe focus on accelerating profitable growth in its current f The Group has stepped up the rate of c b portfolio of businesses.
investment in new technology to support our organic expansion.
This includes a Pressure on margins g d e the continued growth of e-commerce.
These initiatives bring with them risks b E-business and new relating to change management and business models information security.
The Group is willing c Market conditions and growth to take acceptable and managed levels of risk in introducing these changes to secure d Information security future growth.
These risks may grow in Less likely More likely the future.
e Litigation Likelihood f Regulation Products, customer service andsupply chain Business continuity g The Company will accelerate growth The materialisation of these risks could have and expand margins by increasing levels Risk and strategy an adverse effect on the Groups results or of satisfaction in its distinct customer These and other risks may prevent us from achieving financial condition.
If more than one of these segments.
This includes providing high the full potential of our strategy.
The symbols below risks occur, the combined overall effect of are displayed next to each risk on the following levels of availability of a wide range of pages.
They indicate which of our objectives may such events may be compounded.
products, including high quality own be most directly affected by the risk identified.
Theobjectives are summarised on page 10.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Wolseley plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Severity Low Medium High Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information a Pressure on margins Inherent Definition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation risklevel Wolseleys ability to maintain Pressure on margins remained high during The Groups strategy for tackling this issue High attractive profit margins can be the period under review, primarily due remains unchanged.
This includes the affected by a range of factors.
In Switzerland following activities: Trend These include levels of demand and Canada, these pressures were The Company has a clear programme and competition in our markets, exacerbated by adverse foreign exchange No change of work to implement new business the arrival of new competitors rate movements and lower oil prices.
models including the growth of with new business models, the Related In response, the Company has further e-commerce revenues.
objectives flexibility of the Groups cost consolidated leading positions in its Core business processes are subject base, changes in the costs of 2 3 markets through both acquisition and to continuous monitoring and commodities or goods purchased, organic growth.
Investments were also improvement, including customer customer or supplier consolidation made in adjacent sectors offering higher service, pricing, sourcing, inventory or manufacturers shipping directly margins.
In total, investment in organic management and credit control.
growth totalled 220 million in the year and The performance of each business There is a risk that the Company 18 acquisitions were made.
unit is closely monitored and corrective may not identify or respond action taken when appropriate.
The Company disposed of its non-core effectively to changes in these Certain businesses may be exited if they wood treatment business in France, where factors.
If it fails to do so, the cannot deliver attractive returns.
it believed attractive margins were not amount of profit generated available in the long term.
Disciplined acquisition procedures by the Company could be are in place to promote the effective significantly reduced.
Gross margins for the ongoing businesses identification, evaluation and integration improved by 10 basis points to 28.0 per of targets.
b New business models Inherent Definition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation risklevel To respond to changing The inherent level of risk before mitigation Each business unit has a clear strategy High customer needs the Group is has risen slightly as the pace of change for continuously developing its business introducing new business models.
within the USA, the UK and the Nordic model and a defined programme of work Trend This will involve the development region has increased.
of e-commerce and other new Risk is rising Close attention is paid to the execution Programmes of work are scoped, technologies, creating new of these programmes at all levels of resourced and implemented locally, routes to market and making Related the organisation.
according to customers needs and objectives improvements in core processes.
Businesses undergoing The prioritisation of existing projects was 2 3 4 The implementation of these the greatest change have dedicated reviewed in 2015 and additional resource models is now well underway in programme and change management and focus was devoted as appropriate, many of our key markets and will capability with associated KPIs.
to ensure the increased level of change is continue for several years.
The Board reviews progress during regular The Group must successfully updates from the Group Chief Executive implement these changes without and as part of its six-monthly review of disrupting existing operations.
The Groups ability to successfully The Group Chief Executive and Chief execute these changes will affect Financial Officer discuss progress its ability to grow profitably in with each business unit during regular the future.
Risk is rising Risk is unchanged Risk is falling Issue has been added to the list of top Group risks this year Wolseley plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal risks and their management continued c Market conditions and growth Inherent Definition and impact Changes this year Mitigation risk level Market conditions in some of The risk has reduced slightly as market The Group cannot control market High the Companys markets outside conditions have improved in some of conditions but believes it has effective of the USA remain suppressed.
measures in place to respond to changes.
Trend Until higher levels of growth and However the risk remains high.
Wolseley continues to reinforce existing profitability are achieved in these measures in place, including: Risk is falling Investments in customer service, product markets, the Group is increasingly availability and productivity improvements the development of our business model: reliant on growth in the USA to Related have continued.
cost control, pricing and gross margin objectives drive its overall performance.
management initiatives, including A material issue in the USA could The Group continued to successfully grow 1 2 3 a focus on customer service and therefore affect the Groups results its e-commerce revenues both organically productivity improvement: more than in the past.
For example, during the planning, budgeting and year the Group acquired the online retailer Some of these factors are out of forecasting processes: BathEmpire.
the Groups control and are difficult maintenance of a strong balance sheet: to forecast.
Other routes to market were enhanced, resource allocation processes: and including improved showrooms and call capital expenditure controls centre capability.
d Information security Inherent Definition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation risklevel Technology systems and data This risk has continued to increase as a The Group operates an IT governance High medium are fundamental to the future greater proportion of the Groups revenue framework including a set of dedicated growth and success of the Group.
is derived from e-commerce channels.
IT policies, procedures and standards Trend These digital assets are threatened The level and sophistication of IT security aligned to known security and operational by increasingly sophisticated threats is constantly developing.
These include behavioural Risk is rising security threats, including procedures for employees and technical For the first time, major data breaches were hacking, viruses, phishing or controls for IT systems.
These are Related reported in Wolseleys industry sector.
reviewed annually and are subject to The Group is undertaking a number of continuous improvement.
2 3 4 Data breaches in our industry improvement programmes to address sector and others indicate that Certain of these controls are tested by 5 6 this risk.
These include improving such events are highly likely and business units, by the Group IT function security awareness amongst employees difficult to prevent.
External specialists and enhancing data ownership and are also employed as appropriate to test Sensitive employee, customer classification.
Technical IT projects are the security of our technology systems, or other data may be stolen and in progress to deliver enhancements e. g. penetration tests.
distributed or used illegally, leading to the Groups digital security systems to increased operating costs, and infrastructure.
Core IT systems and data centres for the litigation and fines or penalties.
Groups material businesses, including Briefings on this topic have been provided the Groups principal e-commerce The technology systems on which to the Board and the Executive Committee.
businesses, have documented disaster our branches, distribution centres recovery plans which are tested annually.
and e-commerce businesses rely Crisis management and communications may be disrupted for several hours plans are regularly updated.
As a result, Wolseley could forego revenue or profit margins as Insurance coverage is in place, including we are unable to trade.
Risk is rising Risk is unchanged 1 2 3 4 5 6 Risk is falling Denotes an objective which may be directly Issue has been added to the list impacted by the risk identified see page 10 of top Group risks this year forstrategic objectives Wolseley plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information e Litigation Inherent Definition and impact Changes this year Mitigation risk level The international nature of During the year, there has been no material Contracting procedures are continuously Medium high Wolseleys operations exposes it change in the level of litigation to which the reviewed and improved against a to the potential for litigation from Group is exposed.
good practice framework used by all Trend third parties, and such exposure Wolseley businesses.
The level of contractual protection afforded is considered to be greater in the No change to the Company under productand Levels of litigation are monitoredby USA than in Europe.
employee-related contracts has improved individual operating companies.
Related Wolseleys people, its product during the year.
A monthly report of potential exposures objectives ranges and the terms it negotiates and current litigation is submitted by all A review of policies and procedures 2 3 6 with its suppliers are fundamental businesses and reviewed by the Group relating to product liability was undertaken to securing the profitable growth General Counsel.
in 2015 and the findings were reported of the Group.
Equally, it is in these to the Board.
Improvements are The Group periodically re-assesses the areas where the potential risk of being implemented.
level of product-related risk in all business litigation may be greatest.
Due diligence is conducted on HR policies and procedures in the USA Acquisitions and disposals and the products and suppliers considered to be and elsewhere have also been updated to restructuring of under-performing high risk.
Product testing is carried out in minimise the risks of litigation.
businesses may also give rise certain businesses supplying product to to litigation.
Contracting procedures are being reviewed industrial customers.
For more information on specific KPIs are used to measure the level of litigation affecting the Group, see Internal audits have been undertaken in contractual and other protection.
pages 109, 110, 132 and 144. some businesses to test procedures and to In the case of claims related to exposure review major contracts.
to asbestos, Wolseley continues to employ independent professional advisers to actuarially determine its potential gross liability.
Wolseley has insurance which exceeds the current estimated liability relating to asbestos claims.
Risk insight Gaining insight into trends at the front line of operational risk areas, including financial our business is fundamental to managing control, litigation, health and safety, product our risks.
This year, the Group improved its quality and fraud.
Improved analytical risk management information systems to capability is providing a more accurate and better analyse and respond to risk.
The dynamic flow of risk-related information new system, which went live in July 2015, from the front line up to the Group Board tracks and analyses data on a range of and its Committees.
Wolseley plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal risks and their management continued f Government regulations Inherent Definition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation risklevel The Groups operations are There has been no major change in the The Group monitors regulations across its Medium low affected by various statutes, level of regulation applying to the Company.
markets to ensure the effects of changes regulations and laws in the are minimised and the Company complies During the year, the Company reviewed Trend countries and markets in which with all applicable regulation.
its suite of Group-wide policies and it operates.
The amount of such No change procedures to ensure they remained The Groups Code of Conduct sets out regulation and the penalties aligned to the Companys strategic the behaviours expected of Wolseley can change.
Related objectives and its principal compliance employees.
This includes clear statements objectives While the Group is not engaged requirements.
Updates were made as that the Company does not permit bribery 1 2 3 in a highly regulated industry, it required, including changes to the Groups or the giving or receiving of improper is subject to the laws governing Timber Sourcing and Trade Compliance gifts, that it does not tolerate fraud and 4 5 6 businesses generally, including and Sanctions policies.
that employees must comply with antilaws relating to competition, trust laws.
The Group continues to review its data product safety, timber sourcing, protection practices in anticipation of the Briefings and training on regulatory data protection, labour and forthcoming European Union General Data topics and compliance issues, employment practices, Protection Regulation.
including anti-trust, anti-fraud and antiaccounting and tax standards, corruption are undertaken throughout international trade, fraud, bribery Anti-bribery and anti-corruption practices Wolseley businesses.
and corruption, land usage, the in all businesses were reviewed during environment, health and safety, the year and the findings reported to the The Group aligns Company-wide transportation, payment terms Executive and Audit Committees on policies and procedures with its key andother matters.
Improvements are compliance requirements and monitors being implemented.
Building codes or particular tax treatments may affect the products Further information on the Companys Where appropriate, tests are conducted Wolseleys customers are allowed ethics and compliance programme can to ensure the Company would respond to use and, consequently, changes befound on page 39. appropriately to a regulatory investigation.
in these may affect the saleability of some Wolseley products.
Breach of any legal or regulatory requirement could result in significant fines and penalties, and damage to the Companys reputation.
Risk is rising Risk is unchanged 1 2 3 4 5 6 Risk is falling Denotes an objective which may be directly Issue has been added to the list impacted by the risk identified see page 10 of top Group risks this year forstrategic objectives Wolseley plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information g Business continuity Inherent Definition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation risklevel The continued operation of Improved management information on The loss of an important branch or Medium low important physical assets, such as property loss controls at key sites has distribution centre is naturally hedged branches, showrooms, distribution promoted the implementation of improved by the diversified nature of our locations, Trend centres and offices is threatened protection measures.
by natural and man-made perils.
No change Property loss control engineers have The Group has formally documented For example: inspected ten of the Groups most valuable and tested business continuity plans Related some of the Groups physical sites.
Recommendations for improvement for its major distribution centres, head objectives assets are located in areas are being implemented where material office buildings and data centres where 2 3 4 exposed to natural catastrophe risks exist.
the risk is considered to be greatest.
risks, such as earthquakes, Contracts have been established with 5 6 During the year, the Group disposed of its hurricanes or severe storms: external companies providing immediate wood treatment subsidiary in France, which support in the event of a natural the nature of our operations and had greater fire and business continuity catastrophe or other incident.
the products we distribute can exposures than the core distribution give rise to fire hazards: business.
This business had previously In conjunction with our insurers, 10 to 15 to optimise costs and supply suffered above-average fire losses.
of our highest value sites are audited each chain efficiency, some year to evaluate fire and other business companies within the Wolseley continuity risks.
Group have also centralised A comprehensive insurance programme their distribution network is purchased, covering property damage and are therefore reliant on and business interruption risks.
a smaller number of larger distribution centres.
The loss of a major site, such as a large distribution centre, could interrupt our business operations.
This might lead to loss of revenue, increased operating costs and lower profit margins.
The Strategic report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Ian Meakins Group Chief Executive Wolseley plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Section 3 53 Chairmans letter and Governance overview 54 Board of Directors 56 Executive Committee Governance 57 Leadership 61 Effectiveness 64 Relations with shareholders 66 Audit Committee 71 Nominations Committee 72 Other committees 73 Directors Report other disclosures 77 Remuneration Report introduction 79 Remuneration policy 91 Annual report on remuneration Wolseley plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
