Strategic report Risk management and key risks The Group continually monitors andevaluates risk Risk process and appetite This year, the Group carried out a risk Principal risks The exposure to risk is an inherent part of management workshop to identify and review The principal risks relating to the Group and running a business and the Board recognises theimpact and likelihood of a number of key itssector are summarised in the table opposite.
that rigorous safeguards and a sound system risks.
The relevant risk owners within the Group The table also shows how these risks are ofrisk management processes are required to contributed to discussions of these risks.
Extensive managed by the Group, including mitigation plans.
Risk is a prioritised agenda feedback collected from the workshop was Risks can be divided into recurring risks and item at Board meetings and the overall process used to supplement and update the Groups new risks.
New risks are those inherited as a for identifying and assessing business risks risk register, which is reviewed at each Audit result of the uSwitch acquisition.
andmanaging their impact on the Group is Committee meeting.
The risk factors described opposite are not The Groups risk register includes a number anexhaustive list or an explanation of all risks.
The Audit Committee, through delegation from ofrisks, which are a combination of operational, Additional risks and uncertainties relating to the Board, also keeps under constant review strategic and financial risks.
There have been theGroup, including those that are not currently the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups some changes to the risk register since last year, known to the Group or that the Group currently internal control and risk management systems.
mainly due to the Groups acquisition of uSwitch, deems immaterial, may individually or cumulatively To comply with the UK Corporate Governance which has led to the identification of new potential also have a material adverse effect on the Code, the Audit Committee considers updates risks, as outlined in the Class 1 circular provided Groups business, results of operations and or to its riskmanagement procedures at each to shareholders.
The risk appetite of the Group financial condition.
Audit Committee meeting throughout the year is considered in light of the principal risks identified and these are communicated back to the Board in the risk register and their impact onthe Groups for further discussion.
It receives and analyses ability to meet its strategic objectives.
The Board regular assurance reports from Management on considers the risk appetite in the context of the matters related to risk and control and reviews regulatory environment, the Groups strategy, the timeliness and effectiveness of corrective itsculture and the sectors in which it operates.
Key risks and their likelihood No change inrisk New risk 1.
Changing online landscape and consumertrends 4.
Retention and recruitment Risk increase 5.
Reputational and branddamage 16 Helping consumers make smarter decisions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Description Impact Management and mitigation If the UK economy contracts or if interest f Regularly reviewing market conditions 1.
Macroeconomic ratesincrease, average property prices, the andindicators: conditions number of mortgage approvals, the volume f Maintaining a flexible cost base that can oftransactions in the UK housing market The Group derives most of its revenues from respond to changing conditions: andthe marketing budgets of the Groups the UK residential property, energy, broadband partners could decrease, whichcould reduce f Diversifying risk by maintaining a balance between and mobile markets.
The Group is therefore demand for the Groupsservices.
different revenue streams, including diversification dependent on the macroeconomic conditions through the uSwitch acquisition, in order to provide in the UK and macro factors within each of the The Group is also exposed to changes in protection against volatility within certain markets: Groups key markets.
consumer and partner behaviour driven by fluctuations within the energy, broadband and f Developing revenue streams in other related No change in risk mobile markets, which could impact demand adjacent markets: for the Groups services.
f Communicating the effectiveness of digital media versus alternative mediums such as print: and f Promoting the benefit and potential savings forconsumers of home services switching.
If competitors are able to provide, or are f Communicating to partners the value proposition 2.
Competitive environment perceived to provide, an enhanced partner of advertising on the Groups websites: The Group operates in marketplaces which are orconsumer service then there is a risk that f Offering attractive and competitive pricing highly competitive.
The actions of the Groups the Groups visits, number of partners and packages to partners: competitors can have a direct impact on revenue may decline as a result.
f Continually monitoring and undertaking reviews A significant portion of traffic to the Groups of competitor strategies that are built into the No change in risk websites is driven by search engines.
regular business planning cycle: Increased search engine optimisation or digital marketing expenditure by competitors f Increasing consumer brand awareness may cause the Group to increase its own throughmarketing: marketing budget to ensure that it can f Communicating the benefits to both partners continue to compete effectively.
and consumers of the uSwitch acquisition and Whilst Agents Mutual continues to operate the Groups strategy to become the consumer its restrictive advertising provision there champion at the heart of the home: isarisk that certain estate agent partners f Continuing to develop and extend the Groups cannot, or choose not, to list on the Groups product offering and improve the value provided property websites.
for partners: There is a risk that the Group may not be f Optimising the consumer experience to drive ableto achieve significant traction in its other traffic and leads for partners: revenue channels due to the size, scale or market share of existing players in the market.
f Diversifying risk through the acquisition ofuSwitch: and f Regularly reviewing search engine optimisation and pay per click cost and effectiveness.
The way in which consumers interact with f Increasing user engagement levels by 3.
Changing online landscape businesses is evolving rapidly.
There is a risk continuing a consumer-centric approach and consumer trends that consumer engagement and traffic may toproduct development, improving value decline if the Group does not keep up with fortheGroups advertising partners: The Group participates in fast-moving evolving consumer trends.
Furthermore, the marketplaces which are subject to rapid f Ensuring mobile optimisation in all new Groups partners are constantly developing technological development and changes products and features: their business models and the way in which inconsumer trends which may impact the they interact with consumers directly.
Failure f Maintaining organisational flexibility, allowing Groups ability to offer the best products of the Group to adapt to meet the needs of its fast responses to new business opportunities andservices to its partners and consumers.
partners could lead to a fall in the number of or threats: and No change in risk partners and revenues.
f Monitoring and regularly reviewing search The Group is also subject to changes in policies engineoptimisation.
set by search engine providers.
Failure to keep pace with these changes may lead to the Groups websites receiving less exposure to consumers and result in a fall in visitor numbers.
Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 17 Strategic report Risk management and key risks continued Description Impact Management and mitigation Competition for qualified employees is intense f Investing in succession planning and improving 4.
Retention and recruitment and the loss of a number of qualified employees, learning and development, giving opportunities Success depends on the continued service or an inability to attract, retain and motivate for employees to upgrade skills: and performance of the Groups Senior highly skilled employees, could adversely f Implementing a new HR system in 2015 which Leadership Team and other key employees.
impact the Groups operations, financial assists in supporting employees: Skilled development, technical, operating, sales condition orprospects.
and marketing personnel are also essential for f Providing competitive compensation packages to There is also a risk of an increase in staff the business to meet its strategic goals.
all staff, including a blend of short and long-term churn as a result of the uSwitch acquisition incentives for managers, and the introduction of No change in risk due to a failure to integrate the uSwitch the Value Creation Plan for the CEO: business at a cultural and operational level.
f Maintaining the culture of the Group to generate significant staff loyalty: and f Operating a structured approach to recruitment using specialist teams to ensure the recruitment of high quality employees quickly.
Any failure of the Groups IT infrastructure f Operating extensive disaster recovery and 5.
IT systems and through error or attack could impair the business continuity contingency plans: cyber-security operation of the Groups websites, the f Regularly testing the security of the IT systems processing and storage of data and the A number of the Groups IT systems are and platforms including penetration testing and day-to-day management of the Groups interdependent and a failure in one system testing of DDoS attack procedures: business.
In addition, any theft or misuse orasecurity breach may disrupt the efficiency ofdata held within the Groups databases f Maintaining separate platforms for the Property and functioning of the Groups operations.
could have both reputational and financial Services and Comparison Services businesses: TheGroup may also be subjected to implications for the Group.
f Restricting access to data, systems and code and ensuring all systems are secure and up to Risk increase date:and f Providing training for staff on data protection and compliance and developing a Group-wide data policy.
Damage to any of the Groups brands could f Continually investing in the Groups brands: 6.
Reputational and lead to a fall in consumer confidence in the f Embedding a culture of transparency, social branddamage Group, reducing traffic and leads for the awareness and ethical behaviour throughout Groups partners and in turn impacting the The Group operates a number of identifiable and the Group: Groups revenue.
In particular, the uSwitch respected brands which could be damaged by brand has developed a creditable reputation f Regularly reviewing the Groups risks and factors such as unethical or unlawful activity, as a consumer champion, which increases the reviewing and developing internal controls poor customer service or negative press.
potential impact of any reputational damage.
tomitigate the risk of error or fraud: Risk increase There is also a risk that the Groups partners may f Executing the Groups strategy, which has both choose to terminate their existing relationship with consumers and the Groups partners at its the Group as a result of any reputational damage core:and which would directly impact the Groupsrevenues.
f Employing a dedicated public relations team.
There is a risk that changes to the regulatory f Maintaining regular contact with all significant 7.
Regulatory environment environment force the Group to revise its regulatory bodies: The Group operates in a number of regulated strategy, operations or business model.
f Operating a culture of co-operation and environments.
Certain revenue streams within the Changes in regulation may also impact the transparency with regulators: Comparison Services businesses are regulated Groups profitability via increased compliance by the FCA.
The Comparison Services division costs or a fall in revenues as a result of f Implementing processes to ensure compliance also complies with the OFGEM Confidence changes in consumer behaviour.
with all mandatory reporting obligations: Code and is continuing to work with OFGEM Non-compliance with regulations set by a f Employing a dedicated Regulation and inrelation to its inquiries.
regulatory body may also have both Compliance Manager within the Group: and The Group is also involved in regular communication reputational and .
f Regular monitoring of regulatory risks by the with OFCOM, the CMA and other regulatory Board, Audit Committee, legal function and bodies which impact the Groupand its partners.
New risk 18 Helping consumers make smarter decisions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Description Impact Management and mitigation Failure of the Group to comply with its existing f Negotiating sufficient headroom within the 8.
Debt covenants debt covenants may lead to a default on the Groups existing facility: andfunding Groups borrowings and require the Group f Consideration of current debt covenants torepay any amounts outstanding.
The Group holds external debt and therefore embedded into budgeting and must ensure compliance with its debt covenant The level of debt within the business and forecastingprocesses: ratios.
The Group also needs to ensure that it thecovenants in place may also restrict the f Regularly monitoring compliance with current has the funding required to deliver on its strategy amount of funds available for future growth debt covenants and available headroom: and future growth plans and that it manages its including future M&A activity.
debt and cash balances effectively.
f Proactive cash management: and New risk f Consideration of additional or alternative funding should significant opportunities for growth be identified.
Failure to realise the Groups strategy to f Executing the integration strategy and plan 9. uSwitch integration become the consumer champion at the developed on acquisition: The acquisition of uSwitch was a significant heartof the home and build an integrated f Oversight of the enlarged Group by the transaction and the Group needs to ensure that and optimised consumer product offering Executive and Senior Leadership teams the business integrates successfully in terms of may impact the Groups future revenues and toensure harmonisation of strategy and strategy, operations and culture.
have an adverse effect on both the consumer objectives across the Group: experience and the value generated for the New risk Groups advertisingpartners.
f Designing and developing integrated product and service offerings: Failure to integrate the business at a cultural and operational level may also increase staff f Communicating the benefits to both partners churn within the business.
and consumers of the uSwitch acquisition and the Groups strategy to become the consumer champion at the heart of the home: and f Harmonisation of benefits, working environments and practices and culture across the Group.
Viability statement As detailed above, the Directors have conducted a robust assessment After considering the above, the Directors believe that a three year of the principal risks facing the Group and believe that the Group is viability period is the most appropriate to ensure that forecasting well placed to successfully manage these risks.
Therefore, in accordance isreasonable and that the Group can conduct a reasonable with the 2014 revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code the identification and assessment of its principal risks.
Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the In arriving at their conclusion the Directors considered the Groups Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall forecast financial performance and cash flows over the three year duefor the next threeyears.
The forecast has been subject to sensitivity analysis The following factors were considered in determining the three year driven by the principal risks to the Group, as identified above.
viability period: TheDirectors have reviewed the potential impact on the business ofsensitising a number of key assumptions including increased f the Group operates within the online digital marketing space, competition, a reasonable change or challenge with regards to asector which is subject to rapid technological, consumer and regulation and macroeconomic factors such as a decline in the market changes: UKproperty market.
Each analysis considered the Groups ability f the Group is a relatively young enterprise, which was founded tomeet its operational and financial obligations throughout the in2007 and listed in June 2014: and periodincluding compliance with the Groups existing debt covenants.
f the Group has changed rapidly over its relatively short lifetime Based on the analysis performed the Directors confirm that they have andhas engaged in a number of significant acquisitions.
a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next three years and continue to adopt the Going Concern basis in preparing the Groups audited financial statements for 2015.
Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 19
