The Strategic Report 17 Delivering our strategy How we manage risk Our rISKS We need to manage risk so we can meet our objectives, build Like all businesses, we are affected by a number of risks and shareholder value for BT and promote our stakeholders interests.
These may be impacted by internal and external We have a group-wide risk management process.
The four stages of factors, some of which we cannot control.
Many of our risks are this are: identification: evaluation: response: and monitoring.
similar to those felt by comparable companies in terms of scale and operation.
Changes over the year principal risks and uncertainties In 2013 14 we improved the way we manage risk through In this section we explain some of the principal risks and enhancing our risk management training, formalising the linkage uncertainties affecting us.
These risks have the potential to impact between our investments and our principal risks and proactively our business, brand, people, assets, revenue, profits, liquidity or assessing emerging risks.
This year we made further improvements capital resources.
The principal risks we described last year have including: evolved, and so too has our response to them.
project and programme risk management BTs Enterprise Risk Management framework provides reasonable We developed an enhanced risk management policy, process and but cannot give absolute assurance that significant risks are toolkit to provide guidance to colleagues managing risk in projects identified and addressed.
There may be some risks which are and programmes.
This was supported by additional training for our unknown to us at present.
And there may be some that we consider project management community.
less significant now but become more important later.
risk appetite External factors can present both risks and opportunities, to our Risk appetite the nature and extent of the risks we are prepared business and to others.
We focus our efforts on predicting and to take has been reviewed by both the BT Group plc Board and mitigating the risks, while at the same time seeking to capitalise on the Operating Committee this year.
We have also progressed this opportunities that may emerge.
work in our lines of business, for example using risk appetite to help We recognise the particular uncertainty that political and geodetermine the relative criticality of different IT systems.
political risks present, both in the UK for example the Scottish independence referendum in 2014 and globally.
We now monitor risk culture these through a separate sub-committee of BTs Risk Panel.
Aligning with our organisational health programme, we have identified opportunities to build into the behaviours being In the principal risks section below, we talk about what we are doing embedded into our business, a culture that positively supports active to stop our main risks materialising, or to limit their impact.
Our and open risk management.
principal risks and uncertainties should be considered along with the risk management process, the forward-looking statements in this document and the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements, which you can read on page 129.
indb 17 5 19 2015 1:07:17 AM 18 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 Our principal risks risk description Impact link to strategy Changes over the last year risk mitigation Security and resilience Deliver superior The resilience of our IT systems, networks and associated A breach of our security, or compromise of data or resilience In the past year we have had to deal with an unprecedented increase in We manage the risk of service interruption through a robust control infrastructure, including our core data centres and exchanges, affecting our operations, or those of our customers, could customer service the volume and intensity of cyber-attacks.
We recorded more top priority framework that focuses first and foremost on prevention, supported by lead to an extended interruption to our services or even tried-and-tested recovery capabilities.
We have also undertaken a largeis essential to our short and long-term commercial success.
incidents in the last three months of 2014 than were experienced in the affect national infrastructure.
The impact of such a failure previous two years.
The attacks were aimed not just at BT, but also at our scale estate resilience programme during the year, through which we have We face a variety of hazards that could cause significant could include: immediate financial losses due to fraud and continued to invest in developing our resilience and recovery capabilities in customers, with the potential to disrupt others and cause collateral damage interruptions to the delivery of our services.
These include theft: termination of contracts: immediate loss of revenue to BT services.
instances where the risk has been shown to exceed acceptable levels for us.
component failure, physical attack, theft of copper cable and where orders and invoices cannot be processed: contractual We have a rolling programme of major incident simulations to test and refine equipment, fire, explosion, flood, power failure, overheating Following a comprehensive review of the resilience and disaster recovery penalties: lost productivity and unplanned costs of restoration our crisis management procedures.
An intensive focus on controlling the or extreme cold, problems encountered during upgrades and capability of our critical systems, databases and exchanges, we have and improvement: prosecution: and fines.
volume of network changes has also reduced the number of incidents.
major changes, and the failure of key suppliers.
A cyber-security invested in enhancing site resilience based on our target levels of acceptable incident or logical attack could also trigger service interruption.
Additionally, reputational damage may arise, undermining risk.
We have also invested significantly in geo-resilience ie cross-site The replacement of equipment that is approaching the end of its service life market confidence and jeopardising future revenues.
recovery for our critical systems where this did not previously exist, and has provided opportunities to invest in new, more resilient facilities.
We also We also have a responsibility to many millions of customers, Ultimately the welfare of individuals might be put at risk have already seen a return on this investment through seamless failover and benefit from having  locations that support crossboth business and consumer, to ensure their electronic where services cannot be provided or personal data is continuity of service during planned and, occasionally, unplanned outages.
site recovery, avoiding the need to invest in new sites just for this purpose.
information remains confidential, accurate, secure and available.
The same holds true for our own data, information and Our security strategy aims to prevent, deter and minimise the consequences intellectual property.
Our defences include physical protection of our assets, encryption of data, control of access rights, real-time analysis and sharing of intelligence, and continuous monitoring for intrusion, modifications and anomalies.
We can rapidly adjust firewalls to automatically block most malicious data traffic.
These measures combine to reduce the likelihood of a major incident and help ensure that interruption or damage can be contained and dealt with promptly and effectively.
In response to the increased cyber threat, we have strengthened our defences, invested in new tools, techniques and skills to monitor threats, and increased our capacity to deal with attacks.
We have also started a major programme to restructure our IT estate to make it quicker and easier to manage the incidents when they occur.
Major contracts We have a number of complex and high-value national and Failure to manage and meet our commitments under these Deliver superior Tough market conditions and competitive pressures continue in many Our group-wide risk governance and reporting, along with line of business multinational customer contracts.
contracts, as well as changes in customers requirements, customer service global regions while in some we are experiencing higher growth in volume local governance and risk management processes, provide the visibility of their budgets, strategies or businesses, may lead to a Transform our costs of business due to previous investments we have made.
The risk landscape key risk and mitigation activities.
Assurance is provided via independent The revenue arising from, and the profitability of, these reduction in our expected future revenue, profitability and Invest for growth changes accordingly, as does our focus of risk support and review.
audits and at an individual contract level through an independent contracts are subject to a number of factors including: variation cash generation.
Unexpectedly high costs associated with the review programme based on multiple selection criteria or by senior in cost: achievement of cost reductions anticipated in the Of particular note this year has been the number of broadband contracts delivery of particular transformational contracts could also management request.
Progress on risks and mitigation actions agreed at contract pricing, both in terms of scale and time: delays in the with local authorities through the BDUK programme now entering the negatively impact profitability.
these independent reviews are monitored and reported to relevant senior delivery or achievement of agreed milestones owing to factors delivery phase of the contract lifecycle.
While these contracts carry a managers to ensure progress can be tracked.
A separate, dedicated team either within or outside of our control: changes in customers Earnings may be reduced or contracts may even become different risk profile, we apply our established risk governance and reporting provides assurance over our BDUK programme.
requirements, their budgets, strategies or businesses: and the loss-making through loss of revenue, changes to customers processes to ensure that risks and mitigation activities are identified and performance of our suppliers.
Any of these factors could make a businesses, business failure or contract termination.
We have skills development programmes to enhance the ability of our contract less profitable or even loss-making.
Failure to replace the revenue and earnings lost from these people to identify and manage risk and to make sure learning from previous customers could lead to an overall reduction in group revenue, experience is included in training materials.
The scope and availability of The degree of risk generally varies with the scope and life of profitability and cash flow.
training opportunities continue to grow in line with BT-wide learning and the contract and is typically higher in the early stages of the development initiatives.
Some customer contracts require investment in the early stages, which is expected to be recovered over the life of the contract.
Major contracts often involve the implementation of new systems and communications networks, transformation of legacy networks and the development of new technologies.
The recoverability of these upfront costs may be impacted by delays or failure to meet milestones.
Substantial performance risk exists in some of these highly complex contracts.
Trend indicates managements perception of how the P re-mitigation risk is Pre-mitigation risk Pre-mitigation risk is pre-mitigation risk has moved year on year increasing worsening is at a similar level lessening improving 802639 BT Group PLC.
indb 18 5 19 2015 1:07:18 AM The Strategic Report 19 Delivering our strategy risk description Impact link to strategy Changes over the last year risk mitigation Security and resilience Deliver superior The resilience of our IT systems, networks and associated A breach of our security, or compromise of data or resilience In the past year we have had to deal with an unprecedented increase in We manage the risk of service interruption through a robust control infrastructure, including our core data centres and exchanges, affecting our operations, or those of our customers, could customer service the volume and intensity of cyber-attacks.
indb 19 5 19 2015 1:07:18 AM 20 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 risk description Impact link to strategy Changes over the last year risk mitigation pensions The next valuation of the BTPS is scheduled to take place as at The investment performance and liability experience, as well as the We have a significant funding obligation in relation to our Transform our costs The actuarial valuation of the Scheme as at 30 June 2014 was announced defined benefit pension scheme in the UK, the BT Pension 30 June 2017 and an increase in the pension deficit may have on 30 January 2015.
This has provided certainty over the level of cash associated risks and any mitigation, are regularly reviewed and monitored Scheme BTpS or Scheme.
an impact on the level of deficit payments we are required to contributions required until the next triennial valuation is concluded.
by both us and the BTPS Trustee.
The BTPS has a well-diversified investment make into the Scheme.
Indirectly it may also have an adverse strategy, which reduces the impact of adverse movements in the value of The BTPS faces similar risks to other defined benefit schemes.
When a valuation is calculated, the funding position is affected by the impact on BT Group plcs share price and our credit rating.
individual asset classes and helps ensure that an efficient balance of risk and Future low investment returns, lower interest rates, high financial market conditions at the valuation date.
When determining return is maintained.
inflation, longer life expectancy and regulatory changes may Any deterioration in our credit rating would increase our cost expected future returns on the Scheme assets, different factors are taken all result in the cost of funding the BTPS becoming a more of borrowing and may limit the availability or flexibility of into account, including yields or returns on government bonds, which Our financial strength and cash generation provide a level of protection significant burden on our financial resources.
future funding for the group, thereby affecting our ability to have fallen significantly since 30 June 2014.
If a lower investment return against future variations in the funding position of the BTPS.
The funding invest, pay dividends or repay debt as it matures.
assumption is adopted at the 30 June 2017 valuation, the liabilities would liabilities also include some buffer against future negative experience, as likely increase, potentially leading to a higher level of deficit payments.
legislation requires that liabilities are calculated on a prudent basis.
The BTPS entered into longevity insurance and reinsurance arrangements on 4 July 2014 to help protect the Scheme against costs associated with potential increases in life expectancy.
These arrangements covered approximately 25% of the Schemes total exposure to increases in longevity.
On 16 July 2014 the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment on the scope and extent of the Crown Guarantee, which was granted by the Government on BTs privatisation.
This judgment has provided welcome clarity although the Crown Guarantee is not taken into account for the purposes of the actuarial valuation of the Scheme and is an entirely separate matter, only being relevant in the highly unlikely event that BT became insolvent.
Growth in a competitive market We operate in markets which are characterised by: high levels Failure to achieve sustainable profitable revenue growth could The UK economy grew by 3% in 2014. however customers are cautious Our mitigation of this risk centres on successfully executing our strategy.
Invest for growth of change: strong and new competition: declining prices and, erode our competitive position and reduce our profitability, with their spending.
Price and value for money remain the main decision We believe that delivering this strategy, with its focus on broadening and in some markets, declining revenues: technology substitution: cash flow and ability to invest for the future.
drivers for many consumers and small businesses.
At a global level, deepening our customer relationships, delivering superior customer service, market and product convergence: customer churn: and continuing economic uncertainty remains a factor causing corporate transforming our costs and investing for growth, will together help us deliver regulatory intervention to promote competition and reduce customers to delay or downscale infrastructure upgrades and significant sustainable, profitable revenue growth.
We are investing in our business, wholesale prices.
in areas such as fibre, TV content, voice mobility, UK business markets and through our focus on global companies.
Our extensive cost transformation Competition in our markets is strong.
In the UK, new providers of fibre to the programmes continue to deliver savings and will support profitability trends.
premises are entering the fibre access market, offering alternatives to the We also believe we can mitigate this risk by seeking changes in regulation to Virgin Media and Openreach networks.
In the TV and content markets, TV level the playing field so that we can compete effectively in adjacent markets viewing habits are changing with the increasing use of on-demand viewing for the benefit of our customers.
via over-the-top content services providers.
Fixed-mobile convergence is a trend visible in many Continental European countries and increasingly in UK markets.
A number of providers are competing in this space.
BT Group plcs proposed acquisition of EE may stimulate other operators to react to fixed-mobile convergence provided the UK market develops in this way.
indb 20 5 19 2015 1:07:18 AM The Strategic Report 21 Delivering our strategy risk description Impact link to strategy Changes over the last year risk mitigation pensions The next valuation of the BTPS is scheduled to take place as at The investment performance and liability experience, as well as the We have a significant funding obligation in relation to our Transform our costs The actuarial valuation of the Scheme as at 30 June 2014 was announced defined benefit pension scheme in the UK, the BT Pension 30 June 2017 and an increase in the pension deficit may have on 30 January 2015.
indb 21 5 19 2015 1:07:18 AM 22 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 Risk description Impact Link to strategy Changes over the last year Risk mitigation Communications industry regulation Regulatory requirements and constraints can directly impact Regulation impacts our activities across all jurisdictions.
Deliver superior Over the last year, we have seen regulatory activity in a number of areas We have a team of regulatory specialists including economists and our ability to compete effectively and earn revenues.
customer service which are summarised in Regulation on page 14. accountants who, together with legal experts and external advisers, In the UK, Ofcom can require us to provide specific wholesale continuously monitor and review the scope for changes in the regulatory Transform our costs services on specified terms following market reviews.
The Regulatory impacts are highest in the UK where BT is subject rule set and potential disputes with other CPs.
This team maintains an scope and form of that regulation is reviewed every three years to direct regulation in a number of areas following periodic ongoing dialogue with regulators and other key influencers to understand and can include controls on the level of prices we can charge market reviews.
Based on the latest Regulatory Financial the regulatory outlook and to ensure our positions are understood.
We push for regulated inputs.
It has powers to investigate and enforce Statements for 2013 14, around 5.2bn of our revenue of for fair, proportionate, consistent and evidenced-based regulation across the regulatory rules in place and can impose fines on us for which 2.8bn is to downstream parts of BT is from wholesale markets and jurisdictions.
We actively engage in supplying evidence and non-compliance.
Ofcom also has powers to regulate the terms markets where we have been found to have Significant Market analysis for all market reviews, charge controls and disputes investigations on which we are supplied with certain services for instance, Power following market reviews.
Most of these revenues are to manage the risks arising from specific decisions in any given year.
mobile call termination and wholesale access to certain pay-TV subject to charge controls which require us to reduce our channels and this impacts our costs and the scope of services prices annually by a defined percentage in real terms.
Controls We are also able to appeal any regulatory decisions where we believe errors we are able to provide to our customers.
Ofcom can also resolve are usually set for three years and will constrain revenues have been made.
We will also raise disputes and complaints under the disputes between BT and other communications providers during that period.
relevant regulatory framework or competition law where we face problems about the terms on which services are supplied.
gaining access to wholesale services such as access to other networks or to When other CPs ask Ofcom to resolve disputes with us, there wholesale pay-TV channels.
Outside the UK, general licensing requirements can restrict the is a risk that Ofcom may set the prices at which services must extent to which we can enter markets and compete.
Regulation be supplied and or require us to provide specific services.
In will also define the terms on which we can purchase key certain circumstances, Ofcom can adjust historic prices and wholesale services from others.
require us to make repayments to CPs.
Regulation outside the UK can impact i our revenue, by limiting our ability to compete through overly-restrictive licensing requirements or ineffective regulation of access to other networks and ii our costs, by defining and controlling the terms of access to necessary regulated inputs.
Business integrity and ethics We are committed to maintaining high standards of ethical Failure by our employees, or associated persons such as Deliver superior The importance of conducting business ethically is becoming increasingly We have a number of controls in place to address risk in this area.
These behaviour, and have a zero tolerance approach to bribery and suppliers or agents to comply with anti-corruption and customer service recognised across the globe as more countries pass anti-corruption and include a comprehensive anti-corruption and bribery programme, and The corruption.
bribery and sanctions legislation could result in substantial Transform our costs bribery legislation.
In the UK, deferred prosecution agreements are available Way We Work, which is our statement of business practice and which is penalties, criminal prosecution and significant damage to our to the UK Serious Fraud Office for fraud, bribery and other economic available in 14 languages.
We ask all BT employees to sign up to its principles We have to comply with a wide range of local and international reputation.
This could in turn impact our future revenue and crime.
In terms of enforcement, there are yet to be any significant cases and our anti-corruption and bribery policy.
We have specific policies anti-corruption and bribery laws.
In particular the UK cash flow, the extent of which would depend on the nature resulting from the UK Bribery Act, but there continue to be many significant covering gifts and hospitality and charitable donations and sponsorship.
We Bribery Act and US Foreign and Corrupt Practices Act FCPA of the breach, the legislation concerned and any associated enforcement actions brought under the FCPA.
run a training programme with a particular focus on roles such as those in provide comprehensive anti-bribery legislation.
Allegations of corruption or bribery or violation of procurement and sales.
extraterritorial reach and so cover our global operations.
As sanctions regulations could also lead to reputation and brand we expand globally, we are increasingly operating in countries We regularly assess our business integrity risks to make sure that the damage with investors, regulators and customers.
identified as having a higher risk of bribery and corruption.
We appropriate mitigation is in place.
Speak Up is our confidential hotline, also have to ensure compliance with trade sanctions, and import which is operated by an external third party with all reports passed to the and export controls.
Director of Ethics and Compliance for review and investigation.
Our internal audit team regularly runs checks on our business.
We also use external providers to carry out assessments in areas we believe to be higher risk, to ensure our policies are understood and the controls are functioning.
We selectively conduct due diligence checks on third parties including suppliers, agents, resellers and distributors.
Our procurement contracts include anticorruption and bribery clauses.
We have implemented a policy to adhere to applicable sanctions and export control laws.
The policy requires approval on all contract bids involving a country where sanctions are imposed by the EU or the US.
The policy also mandates that our internal shipping system is used to arrange all international exports.
The system conducts compliance checks and flags any orders which require an export licence.
02b 802639 Report of the Directors Strategy p14-28.
indd 22 5 28 2015 10:19:29 AM The Strategic Report 23 Delivering our strategy risk description Impact link to strategy Changes over the last year risk mitigation Communications industry regulation Regulatory requirements and constraints can directly impact Deliver superior regulation impacts our activities across all jurisdictions.
Over the last year, we have seen regulatory activity in a number of areas We have a team of regulatory specialists including economists and our ability to compete effectively and earn revenues.
customer service which are summarised in Regulation on page 14. accountants who, together with legal experts and external advisers, In the UK, Ofcom can require us to provide specific wholesale Transform our costs continuously monitor and review the scope for changes in the regulatory services on specified terms following market reviews.
indb 23 5 19 2015 1:07:18 AM 24 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 Risk description Impact Link to strategy Changes over the last year Risk mitigation Supply chain While the size of the impact from a supplier failure can vary, We conduct supplier risk analysis as part of our sourcing strategy and, where We operate in a global supply market.
This enables us to Deliver superior We have increased our focus on category management of suppliers.
procure third-party products and services that help us deliver all supplier failures typically result in an increased cost to customer service Category management is a process that means our buyers can consolidate possible, take actions to reduce risk, such as through dual sourcing.
to our customers wherever they are.
There are often several our business and have the potential to adversely impact specific categories of spend across all our businesses, so we can maximise Transform our costs We undertake on-site supplier assessments, to evaluate the risks associated links in the chain of supply of a product or service to us.
The customer service, our investments and our brand.
In many the operational and procurement synergies.
It helps mitigate the risk of BT with a suppliers capability, capacity and competence to meet our integrity and continuity of this supply chain is critical to our cases, the costs associated with the failure of a critical supplier not reaching its cost transformation objectives by enabling us to leverage requirements in a predictable, ethical and sustainable manner.
operations and therefore a significant risk to our business.
could be significant, particularly if this means we have to better deals with our suppliers: and to intercept purchase orders where change technology.
If we are unable to contract with an better terms are available elsewhere.
BT operates a comprehensive in-life risk management process called We are committed to ensuring that all dealings with suppliers, alternative supplier, our customer commitments could also be Supplier watch that recognises the suppliers criticality to our strategy and from selection and consultation through to contracting and Increased focus on in-life contract management of our critical suppliers is compromised, possibly leading to contractual breach, loss of operations: and scans for changes across a range of commercial, financial, payment, are conducted in accordance with our trading and delivering benefits in terms of improved supplier contract performance and revenue or penalties.
We check that the appropriate level of ethical policies.
See Suppliers on page 12. risk control.
supplier governance is in place across the group: and test that appropriate We are continually testing the global market for new sources We have a number of suppliers that we have identified as business continuity arrangements are in place for the risk of supplier failure.
of supply but this brings its own challenge of suppliers critical.
The failure of one of these suppliers to meet its Over 330 critical suppliers, as nominated by the operational owners of the becoming more geographically and culturally diverse from our obligations could cause significant harm to our business.
business units that depend on them, are covered by the process.
We are committed to evaluating and responding to any We look for signs of supplier distress that enable us to mitigate the risk A failure in our supply chain to meet legal obligations or associated risks where geo-political and market forces could before it materialises.
A small number of our critical suppliers went into ethical expectations could adversely impact our reputation or impact our suppliers ability to support BT.
administration in 2014 15, but, in each case, we were appropriately possibly lead to censure, legal action and financial loss.
prepared with a business plan that minimised disruption to our customers.
Socio-political, economic and environmental conditions in certain markets and geographies continue to challenge some of our suppliers: and highlight the need for appropriate due diligence across our supply chain.
Protecting our brand from events in the supply chain, such as corrupt practices, the sourcing of conflict minerals or possible human rights abuse, continues to demand a high degree of focus.
Customer data processing As a major data controller and processor of customer Failure to comply with relevant data protection and privacy Deliver superior National regulatory authorities have demonstrated an increasingly We have a Privacy & Data Governance team which is led by the Chief Privacy information around the world we recognise the importance laws could result in varying degrees of negative impact for BT.
customer service aggressive stance over the last 12 months with the application of financial Officer and has continued to recruit individuals with the appropriate skills of adhering to data privacy laws.
Every day we process the These include the possibility of regulatory enforcement action, penalties to both private and public organisations in breach of their data and experience as the remit of this team expands.
personal data of millions of consumer and business customers fines, class actions, custodial sentences and a regulatory privacy obligations.
The Chief Privacy Officer oversees a robust governance and monitoring and we want individuals to feel confident that when they give instruction to cease processing data.
For the first time in the UK, the ICO imposed more fines than Ofcom.
This defines roles and responsibilities as part of a wider approach their personal data to us they can trust us to do the right thing We could also face reputational damage and financial loss the UK, global organisations felt the force of their domestic regulators with to data assurance which utilises independent audits and reviews.
from the failure to meet our legal requirements, as well notably the French Information Commissioner CNIL and the US Federal mitigations to resolution to ensure that senior management are aware of the Being trusted with customer data goes further than making as incurring costs resulting from termination of customer Communications Commissions Enforcement Bureau imposing significant risk and how it impacts respective parts of our business.
It is about ensuring the integrity of the personal contracts and subsequent customer churn.
Companies, such as penalties on organisations for poor compliance practices.
We have developed new online tools and awareness programmes to data we process, only retaining the information that we need Sony which has suffered high profile data incidents, have seen The sensitivity of this risk is expected to increase as new, more robust data make sure that our people comply in their day-to-day activities where to provide customers with the services for which they have a significant negative impact on their share price combined privacy laws are introduced throughout the scope of our operations.
The they handle personal information.
In addition to raising awareness of signed up.
It is also about being transparent around how we use with additional costs associated with non-compliance.
continuing debate around the future EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy by Design, an approach to projects that promotes privacy and data that data, making sure the personal data is processed legally, is already influencing how multinational businesses address this risk.
protection compliance from the start, we have also deployed Privacy Impact fairly and in line with customers rights and wishes.
Through Assessment tools as part of the design process around new products and embedding a robust data governance framework we have services.
reinforced our expectations around personal data with our employees, partners and third parties.
Our focus on broader training and awareness will see a new data privacy module, which our people will need to complete, deployed with roleAs a telecoms and internet service provider we operate specific scenarios for specific job families.
As part of this bespoke approach under a stringent 24-hour reporting regime to notify the UK to managing the risk, for the first time we will have a module designed Information Commissioners Office ICO should we become specifically for the contact centre environment to highlight the diverse aware of a personal data security breach and to notify those number of responsibilities our contact centre people have when dealing with individuals who may have been impacted without undue delay.
indd 24 5 28 2015 10:20:34 AM The Strategic Report 25 Delivering our strategy risk description Impact link to strategy Changes over the last year risk mitigation Supply chain While the size of the impact from a supplier failure can vary, Deliver superior We conduct supplier risk analysis as part of our sourcing strategy and, where We operate in a global supply market.
This enables us to We have increased our focus on category management of suppliers.
There are often several our business and have the potential to adversely impact Transform our costs specific categories of spend across all our businesses, so we can maximise We undertake on-site supplier assessments, to evaluate the risks associated links in the chain of supply of a product or service to us.
