Strategic report Strategic report Risk factors and actions Strategic priorities Risk factors in FY2015 Delivery in FY2015 Maintain a There were no material risks to At 31 March 2015, 83% of the portfolio was invested in Core maintaining a portfolio focused on infrastructure, and 12% in the PPP market.
balanced portfolio Core infrastructure and the portfolio of infrastructure In a challenging market environment, the Company committed balance remains aligned with the investments focusing on 114 million to new investments in both Core infrastructure and Companys objectives.
the Core infrastructure primary PPP projects.
The India Fund sold approximately 54% market, while building The assets in the India Fund are to be of itsholding in Adani Power during the year.
A combination of exposure to primary As shown in the Pro Forma analysis on page 3, following the market, political and asset-specific PPP and low-risk realisation of Eversholt Rail in April 2015, the balance of the portfolio risks continues to affect their potential energy projects remains in line with the Companys objective.
Manage intensively A number of the investments in the The Investment Adviser continued to dedicate significant resource portfolio, including notably AWG and and expertise to portfolio management, engaging with investee the portfolio to deliver Elenia, were subject to regulatory companies to manage the risks deriving from regulation and a robust income yield developments during the year.
the persisting low interest rate, low inflation environment.
and stable capital Portfolio income levels were stable year-on-year at 79.5 million appreciation over time Some of the assets in the portfolio are 2014: 82.3 million.
sensitive to low interest and inflation rates.
Low interest rates have a The Investment Adviser worked with AWG and Elenia to manage particularly negative impact on Elenia, regulatory developments, including the UK water sector regulatory whose allowed return is calculated review for the 2015-2020 period.
based on the Finnish 10-year In positive market conditions, Oystercatcher refinanced its debt and government bond yield see page 43.
Elenia issued further bonds on attractive terms.
There was continued compression The Company was able to take advantage of prevailing market Add selectively to the in returns in the European Core conditions to crystallise an exceptional return through the sale of portfolio, targeting infrastructure market during the Eversholt Rail, which generated an uplift of 139 million compared to opportunities in our year.
While this had positive valuation the valuation at September 2014 and an IRR of over 40% over the life markets and realise implications for the portfolio, it of the investment.
This sale was a key driver of the return for the year.
assets opportunistically has been more challenging for the The Investment Adviser leveraged its network and expertise across Company to secure new investments the infrastructure market to continue to invest, committing a total at total returns and yields consistent of 114 million to new investments in the Core infrastructure and with its existing targets.
The expansion of the Investment Advisers primary PPP origination capabilities increased the Companys portfolio in this sector through commitments to five new investments.
During the year, the Company had to Liquidity risk was monitored actively throughout the year.
In February Manage the balance the liquidity requirements 2015, the Company secured the availability of additional short-term Companys financial of an active pipeline of investment borrowing facilities since cancelled to enable it to continue to position efficiently activity with the objective of running its invest while awaiting the proceeds of the sale of its investment in balance sheet efficiently.
The Company was exposed to foreign Following the exceptional return generated from the realisation of exchange risk due to highly volatile Eversholt Rail, the Board is announcing its intention to implement a exchange rates, particularly for.
150 million return of capital to shareholders.
The Board also agreed the renewal of the Companys revolving credit facility, increasing the amount to 300 million on improved terms.
Throughout the year, the Company managed a foreign exchange hedging programme which significantly reduced the impact of the foreign exchange volatility.
Renewal of the Investment Advisory The Board maintained an excellent relationship with the Investment Manage the Agreement on acceptable terms and Adviser throughout the year.
The Chairman had a regular dialogue relationship with the subject to shareholder approval.
with 3i Groups Chief Executive to discuss the performance of the Investment Adviser investment advisory team.
The amendments to the Investment Advisory Agreement were approved at the Companys EGM in July 2014 by an overwhelming majority of the independent shareholders not including 3i Group.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 15
