Risk management Risk management is fundamental to our core objective of delivering sustainable and long term value to our shareholders.
The Board believes it is of vital importance that there is a Group Three lines of defence wide focus on risk management.
The assessment of risks is The overall risk management structure operates under a three conducted using a top down approach that is complemented lines of defence model: by a bottom up assessment process.
1. Business management: responsible for the identification and mitigation of risks and taking the lead with respect to The top down approach considers the external environment and implementing and maintaining appropriate controls.
the strategic planning process to identify the most consequential and significant risks to shareholder value.
The control oversight functions within the Risk Division: ensures a comprehensive risk assessment process that identifies oversee compliance with regulatory and legal requirements and prioritises key risks: analyses data to verify key trends: and as well as monitoring operational, investment and provides management with a view of events that could impact the counterparty risk.
achievement of business and process objectives.
Independent assurance by Internal Audit: recommend Risk management framework improvements to the control environment.
The Group maintains a comprehensive risk management Risk and control attestation framework and has clearly defined procedures for identifying The Group has in place a risk management system, Sword and escalating risk concerns throughout the organisation.
ArcLogics, which supports risk identification, assessment, issue These processes help Aberdeen to safeguard client assets, protect tracking, monitoring, assurance and reporting.
the interests of all stakeholders and meet our responsibilities as a UK listed company and parent of a number of regulated entities.
Risk events are captured by the business and assessed and approved through a workflow by the second line of defence.
The risk management framework also forms the basis upon which Lessons learned from risk events can require specific reports and the Board reaches its conclusions on the effectiveness of the periodic updates.
Issues can also be raised when there are control Groups risk management and internal controls.
failings and inefficient processes identified or through regular Role of the Board continuous monitoring or deep dive reviews by the second and The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the third line of defence teams.
effectiveness of risk management: the internal control and The Risk and Control Self-Assessment RCSA process is assurance framework: and for determining the nature and extent an integral part of the Groups risk management and control of the risks it is willing to take to achieve the Groups strategic framework.
The process is designed to integrate and co-ordinate objectives, referred to as risk appetite.
The risk appetite statement risk identification and risk management efforts, and improve the is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
understanding, control and oversight of operational risks.
The Board is provided with clear management information as well Managers in the business undertake RCSAs to review the key as the key indicators which allow them to monitor performance operational risks and controls and the impact and likelihood of against set thresholds to ensure the Groups strategic objectives these risks arising.
These risk assessments are monitored on a are consistent with, and can be met, within the boundaries of the regular basis to ensure the business continually understands the risk appetite.
First and second line assurance is provided through Risk register a quarterly control sign off and annual risk sign off.
The risk register describes key risks and their owners together with the causes and effects of each risk.
It documents which boards and committees oversee these risks as well as aligning to the policy and procedure framework.
The register introduces a standard risk language and methodology for identifying, evaluating, measuring and reporting risks to ensure a consistent approach to risk management.
"44 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment ""ICAAP"" Risk reporting ICAAP is a regulatory requirement under which we are required The Board is provided with a number of risk reports, which they to prepare an internal assessment of our capital adequacy."
use to review the Groups risk management arrangements and The process represents an opportunity to assess all principle risks internal controls.
The reports enable the Board to develop a to ensure their sound identification and quantification, allowing cumulative assessment of the effectiveness with which internal the determination of capital that is consistent with the Groups controls are being managed or mitigated.
Board assessment of risk management and internal control The ICAAP is discussed and challenged by the Board at several Applying the framework described above, the Board is able to stages throughout the year, from initial planning, to presentation confirm they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal of the initial findings, and consideration and approval of the risks facing the company, including those which would threaten final document.
our business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have included the viability statement in the finance review Consideration of the ICAAP is integral to significant business section on page 43 and it draws upon the risks described here to decisions, major changes to risk profile, changes to business assess potential vulnerabilities.
strategy and merger and acquisition activity.
The framework allows the Board to carry out an annual review Blue sky thinking of the effectiveness of the companys risk management and The Board holds periodic sessions to consider 'blue sky' risks by internal control systems.
The Board is able to confirm that this exploring the potential business challenges, threats, short term is operating effectively.
and horizon risks, and how wider industry trends may impact group strategy in the coming years.
This year's session was facilitated by external consultants who used questionnaires to gather views on significance and themes of risk 'interconnectedness'.
The key themes are reflected in the table below and cover technology, changing investor demands and the importance of key staff.
Key risks The risks described in the tables on the following pages are a reflection of those discussed by the risk committee.
These risks are discussed, debated and challenged in the context of what is changing in the business, as well as in the wider investment sector and economy, the Boards strategy sessions and the blue sky thinking exercise.
Together, strategic planning, risk assessment, blue sky thinking and ICAAP re-inforce each other.
As a result of this assessment, some of the key changes from last year are: Theme Impact Risks affected Market volatility Volatility and economic uncertainty has had a clear impact on Investment process performance, flows and client risk appetite, which impact AuM flows.
Investment mandate As investor appetite shifts, there are flows across different types of products and styles of mandate.
Changing needs of clients The pools of wealth managed by fund managers are moving from defined Client management benefit to defined contribution pension schemes.
Along with this, there Acquisitions is greater focus on the individual to save and plan for retirement and a greater demand for outcome orientated investment products.
Investment mandate Technology This has a fundamental impact on our sector across a number of dimensions: how we understand, communicate with and sell to clients: Brand and marketing how we manage large volumes of data and process large amounts of transactions: how we make use of information about our investments.
Business continuity As well as changing how we operate, it creates new risks, especially Technology and around security.
Our clients Risks Mitigating factors Changes in 2015 1a Distribution and client management Client relationships are fundamental to The Board views meeting customers needs and Client retention remains a our business and retention of AuM.
expectations as integral to Aberdeens corporate focus for client service and Our main source of business originates culture.
Our client relations teams keep in regular investment teams, especially through two channels of distribution: contact with clients to ensure their needs are given lower investor appetite directly from institutions and indirectly addressed and we now have product specialists in for Asia and emerging markets.
our distribution teams for key capabilities including There is therefore the risk that we mislead property, money market solutions, alternatives and clients or misrepresent products to clients quantitative strategies.
which could create regulatory censure as We also have a global network of offices which allows well as loss of clients.
us to service local clients and the leading private Poor management of client or distributor banks and wealth managers.
In addition, we have a number of committees focused Client needs and expectations continue on reviewing business conduct from a customer to evolve and change in profile, and there perspective, including the conduct committee, is a risk that we fail to customise and investor protection committee, pricing committee tailor our service models to suit their and conflicts of interest committee.
1b Product Product risk arises from poor product design We have a centralised product development team Shifting investor preferences or complexity, resulting in the misleading which oversees the assessment and launch of all new and volatile market factors are or misrepresentation of products to products across the Group.
There is a Group-wide increasing the growing appetite clients.
It can also arise when products approach covering all asset classes as well as product for speciality investments.
no longer meet the clients objectives and competitor reviews.
Clients willingness to consider or requirements.
non-traditional investment New fund proposals and strategies are evaluated and alternatives and adopt new The newly formed product division provides approved by the Product Development Committee, products is increasing, most a clear identifiable focus on product which considers the risks, potential investor profiles notably within defined governance and post fund launch activities.
and distribution channels to ensure suitability and contribution and retail.
We strengthened our solutions We conduct product analysis to confirm products capabilities across distribution, are performing as expected and meeting the needs product, risk, operations, which of our clients.
will enable us to meet the We invest in both organic growth and acquisition growing demand for outcome opportunities: and seed capital is deployed to support orientated propositions.
the development of new investment strategies.
1c Brand and marketing Digital developments are transforming A dedicated marketing team oversees all social media The rapid rise in social media is the way we interact with clients.
We risk communications, to ensure regulatory compliance, transforming the way investors damaging our reputation if we do not and to develop our digital offering to help us interact with businesses keep pace with how an increasing number communicate with client audiences in an and digital channels are of clients and stakeholders want, and engaging way.
becoming more important to expect, to interact with us, and if brand or communicate with clients and We track reputational change through a specialist marketing activities are inconsistent with raise the profile of the group.
company who analyse industry, media and social our culture or operations.
commentary to help us to understand what is influencing our reputation, how we compare to our peers, and the way our reputation is evolving.
The compliance team works closely with the business to check marketing materials are consistent with products and capabilities.
46 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 2.
Our investment process Risks Mitigating factors Changes in 2015 2a Investment process There is the risk that portfolios We develop each of our investment areas, Macroeconomic and political events will not meet their investment ensuring each desk has a disciplined investment may continue to impact markets objectives or that there is a failure process, centred on team based decision making significantly over coming months: to deliver consistent and above and original research.
they also impact our investment average performance due to markets performance but we remain confident We make investment decisions based on the movements or investment decisions.
in the longer term prospects of the long term, which may occasionally lead to companies and assets we invest in.
The interaction of investment process, periods of underperformance.
We mitigate this the retention of key investment by ensuring clients and investment consultants Unsurprisingly, current market volatility personnel 4a and investment fully understand our investment philosophy has raised the importance of liquidity performance are important factors for and by openly discussing performance drivers, risk management, as well as the severity the growth and retention of AuM.
supported by relevant analysis of the performance and swiftness with which this risk components.
Poor investment performance could lead to the loss of clients and may We have a market risk team, which reviews and We have a number of redemption tools cause AuM, revenue and earnings challenges investment risks across all asset classes, at our disposal to manage liquidity to decline.
independently of our fund managers.
issues caused by market volatility, including but not limited to: restrictions Where necessary, we may moderate inflows to on unlisted securities: an extension some products to avoid any risk of dilution in the of settlement period limits on large quality of the portfolios.
redemptions: redemptions in specie: and, dilution levy tools.
2b Investment mandate The risk of intentional or unintentional Client and investment mandate restrictions Volatility and economic uncertainty errors including exceeding client are automated as much as possible to reduce has subdued investor appetite for exposure limits or mandated risk areas where judgement or manual intervention certain asset classes, impacting levels leading to compensation for is required.
Timely and accurate monitoring of performance and increasing flows breach of investment mandate.
restrictions is facilitated through our compliance across different types of products monitoring system.
If an investment breach is and styles of mandate.
identified, the factors leading to the breach are This increase in trade activity has the promptly analysed and the position corrected.
potential to exacerbate current low There is segregation of duties between all volumes of trade errors.
Our control conflicting roles and there are also overarching systems are designed to ensure that all controls in various committees, as well as an trades comply with client requirements independent review of portfolio data by the and portfolio or fund guidelines market risk team.
Our resilience Risks Mitigating factors Changes in 2015 3a Legal and regulatory The Group is subject to regulatory oversight The management of legal and regulatory risk is Progress is being made in and inspection by the FCA and other the responsibility of the senior management of implementing MiFID II and international regulators.
all functions, supported by the in-house legal and UCITS V regulations and compliance teams.
Aberdeen operates in a complex and dynamic regulatory environment.
Risks arise from legal The legal and compliance teams track legal and The FCA has announced and regulatory obligations and the failure to regulatory developments to ensure the Group a competition review of correctly interpret law or changes in the law is prepared for both global and local changes.
the asset management which may materially and adversely impact the In addition to developing policies, delivering sector.
We may also be subject to regulatory training and performing monitoring checks, study of business models sanctions or loss of reputation from failure to they provide advice to other divisions to ensure and profitability, from comply with regulations.
Conduct and culture, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
which the FCA may make and managing or avoiding conflicts of interest, They also work with project groups to implement recommendations.
The regulatory environment Aberdeens three lines of defence model clarifies continues to be challenging, essential roles and duties to ensure effective and we remain focused on communication of risk management and control.
areas such as the senior management regime, market We foster an open and constructive relationship abuse, financial crime, capital with our regulators and participate in industry liquidity, conduct, governance forums and associations so that we are informed and cyber security.
about, and involved in, potential changes.
3b Acquisitions The Groups strategy for diversification has Acquisitions are only considered when they fit with SWIP integration is largely increased our acquisition activity.
There is a risk the Groups strategic goals.
The acquisitions that potential demands on staff and resources announced during the A robust due diligence process is undertaken, which required to integrate a new business and or year strengthen our includes a careful analysis of all strategic, financial, re-organise process, may lead to increased solutions capabilities and operational, and technological requirements before levels of organisational stress.
There is also the the Parmenion acquisition any acquisition is made, including our ability to risk that an element of an acquisition produces advances the Groups digital integrate successfully the acquired business.
unintended results, negatively impacting capabilities.
There will not The due diligence process also includes a cultural operational, effectiveness and cost.
be a major integration assessment to establish areas of similarity and effort required.
difference which may impact integration efforts and the achievement of strategic objectives.
Strong project governance is also in place to manage the scale, scope and change management implications of acquisitions.
3c Business continuity We have an obligation to ensure the business We have established business continuity No change.
There is a risk that management policies and recovery plans, we do not identify potential impacts and which define the standards and requirements for threats to the Group, and build the resilience business continuity, pandemic preparedness, and capability required to ensure an effective crisis management and recovery.
Plans are response that safeguards the interests of key regularly tested.
stakeholders, reputation, brand and value Off-site backup facilities are in place for our for creating activities.
Our wide network of offices globally also provides us with the resilience and security that key operations can be moved and or managed from one location to another at short notice if necessary.
48 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Risks Mitigating factors Changes in 2015 3d External service providers The Group relies on a number of third party We use a small number of strategic suppliers.
This We continue with a dual relationships and services to carry out ensures a degree of competition, whilst ensuring administrator policy and have business functions.
that we have significant influence and leverage.
introduced a new outsourcing However, it also exposes us to concentration risk oversight committee.
The risk arises from the inability to effectively and dependence on strategic providers.
carry out robust evaluations of third parties prior to Aberdeen engaging in dealings, as well Our operations team oversees these third party as having poor ongoing oversight.
They monitor agreed service levels through a suite of key indicators, focusing on significant aspects such as service quality and risks.
Contingency plans in the event of the withdrawal or failure of a strategic supplier are reviewed by the Board.
We also regularly review the business recovery infrastructure and strategy of these suppliers.
This includes visits by our senior executives to strategic suppliers during the year and on-going monitoring and review by our control oversight functions.
3e Technology and information security The Groups technological infrastructure is The Information Security and Business Continuity Managing, monitoring and critical to our operation and the delivery of Committee provides the overall strategic direction, maintaining cyber and products and services to clients.
framework and policies for technology and information security risk information security, with a particular focus remains a critical focus, and Technology and information security risk this year on cyber-crime prevention.
This is we continue to strengthen relates to the risks that our technology systems supported by Aberdeens global cyber security our controls to safeguard are inadequate or that they fail to adapt to programme which is focussed on the protection our assets.
It also covers cyber of the confidentiality and integrity of our related risks where the Group is exposed to The Parmenion acquisition information assets.
financial loss or damage to reputation as a enhances Aberdeens result of failure of information technology We employ an external global capability to support strategy to capitalise on systems: a flaw or weakness in hardware, the management and protection of our network, advancements in technology software or process that exposes a system to critical internal assets and data.
This includes an and develop our digital compromise by third parties: and, that data is incident response service in real time as they occur offering to meet technology held insecurely or breached.
to identify and thwart potential malicious activity.
driven changes in client demographics, profile Technology and data innovation are also A periodic risk assurance review of our information and behaviour.
transforming many aspects of the investment security and cyber risk framework is undertaken by process.
There is a risk that our systems and a professional service firm, to benchmark against platforms do not have the flexibility to support our peers.
a more diverse client base and we fail to utilise our data to gain a competitive advantage.
Our people Risks Mitigating factors Changes in 2015 4a Loss of key investment personnel Retaining, developing and investing in At Aberdeen we do not have star fund managers: We continue to grow our senior talent are fundamental to Aberdeens we have teams with complementary skillsets who leadership and emerging talent stability and long term success.
discuss investment decisions and take collective programmes identifying individuals responsibility.
This team based approach seeks to with the potential to fill senior roles Our reputation and client retention avoid reliance on any one individual.
The senior programme could be damaged through significant is run by INSEAD business school.
There is a strong development programme for fund managers and we seek to encourage performance We updated the annual appraisal Failure to prevent the departure of and loyalty through appropriate remuneration process to ensure that there is a qualified employees dedicated to and benefits packages, which includes a significant clearer documented link between oversee and implement current and deferred element.
objectives setting, performance and future regulatory standards and remuneration with strategy and initiatives could also negatively impact Appraisals and remuneration are designed to culture.
develop, attract, motivate and retain staff.
We continue to develop ideas Succession plans are in place to ensure there is cover put forward by employees on our for key roles, and these are formally reviewed and internal innovative platform Ignite.
This platform enables colleagues to Group strategy is disseminated through all levels of collaborate, discuss, challenge and the organisation, so each business area can engage help shape the future direction of with our ambitions of growth.
Our shareholders Risks Mitigating factors Changes in 2015 5a Foreign currency risk The Groups results are reported in The Board reviews the currency profile of the Group, No change.
Due to the geographically including cash flows and balance sheet.
diverse locations in which Aberdeen Variations in the sterling value of operating costs and operates, business is conducted in a interest costs will, to an extent, offset any similar number of currencies.
These include the impact of fluctuating exchange rates on revenues.
US dollar, Singapore dollar and Euro.
The treasury function prepares a sensitivity analysis There is a risk that the Groups financial of the effect of changes in rates.
Further details on position is exposed to adverse sensitivity to changes in currencies are set out in movements in exchange rates.
note 30 of the financial statements.
5b Liquidity risk The Group aims to have sufficient The Groups cash position, available facilities and The Group has continued to liquidity to meet its liabilities when forecast cash flows are monitored by the Groups hold significant cash balances due under both normal and stressed treasury function.
The Group's cash position and there is comfortable headroom conditions, without incurring continues to strengthen.
over Aberdeens regulatory unacceptable losses or risking damage capital requirement.
We prepare long term forecasts and use stress tests to the Groups reputation.
to assess the Groups future liquidity, as well as compliance with regulatory capital.
The cash and funding position of each subsidiary is monitored and each entity has access to appropriate liquidity.
50 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Risks Mitigating factors Changes in 2015 5c Credit risk We face credit risk as a result of We monitor the value of deposits with our No change in counterparty risk from counterparty exposure.
The principal counterparties against limits in our treasury policy.
risks are in respect of deposits placed As our cash balances have grown, we have increased The value of seed capital has with banks.
the number of counterparties with which we deposit increased, although we see no our cash.
The treasury function is supported by the material change in exposure.
We front office credit team, as well as the market risk have however seen volatility in function that perform internal credit reviews.
market value for these investments.
Where appropriate, we extend our assessment of counterparty risk to include major suppliers.
We set capital aside for seed capital investments in response to the risk of movements in valuations in stressed conditions or our ability whether through credit or liquidity stresses to recover the value of the investments.
com 51 52 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance Corporate governance Roger Cornick Chairman We believe that effective and transparent corporate governance is fundamental to the successful operation of both our own business and that of the companies and countries in which we invest.
As a Board, we are accountable for all of the Groups activities and we seek to follow best practice in our day to day operations.
Over the course of the year we have continued to apply the principles of the Corporate Governance Code, as detailed in the following report.
