Principal risks and uncertainties The table below sets out the principal risks which Admiral has identified through its Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF.
The impact ofthose risks and actions taken to mitigate them are explained below.
Risk Impact Mitigating Factors Insurance risk Reserving risk in UK and International Insurance Admiral is exposed to reserving risk Adverse run-off leading to higher claims Admiral has a conservative reserving policy and holds a significant margin through its underwriting of motor and costs in the financial statements.
in its financial statement claims reserves above actuarially determined household insurance policies.
reserves in the financial statements Best estimate reserves are estimated both internally and externally by may prove inadequate to cover the an independentactuary.
ultimate cost of earned claims which are by nature uncertain.
Many of the potential causes of claims shocks are outside the control of Admiral and the focus is, therefore, on how to prepare for and react This is a particular risk for motor to the occurrence of such events.
insurance liabilities, where the ultimate cost of bodily injury claims particularly The Group continues to make material investments in staff and systems large claims can be materially to work on the identification and prevention of claims fraud.
For very large claims Admiral purchases excess of loss reinsurance, which mitigates theloss.
Periodical Payment Orders PPOs are increasingly used to settle large bodily injury claims PPOs provide for a regular payment Increased uncertainty ofthe cost of Regular reviews of both settled and potential PPO cases are undertaken over an extended time to the significant claims over a longer term.
bythe Claims andActuarial teams, with independent Actuarial opinions claimant, rather than a single A requirement to meet these provided as part of the external reserving analysis.
payments over an extended term.
As noted above Admiral has a conservative reserving policy and continues to hold a material margin initsfinancial statement claims reserves above actuarially determined best estimates.
Premium risk The Group is exposed to the risk that Higher claims costs and loss ratios, There are a number of aspects which contribute to Admirals strong UK claims cost on future business is resulting in reduced profits or underwriting results, including: higher than allowed for in the underwriting losses.
Experienced and focused senior management and teams in key business premiums charged to customers.
areas including pricing and claims management: Highly data-driven and analytical approach to regular monitoring of claims and : Ability to identify and resolve underperformance promptly through changes to key performance drivers, particularly pricing: and Continuous appraisal of and investment in staff, systems and processes.
Admiral purchases excess of loss reinsurance, designed to mitigate the impact of very large individual or catastrophe event claims.
The Group continues to work to establish similar capability and expertise inits newer UK and international businesses.
Catastrophe risk Admiral is exposed to the risk of high A large flood or windstorm causes Admiral purchases excess of loss reinsurance, designed to mitigate the impact losses due to the occurrence of extensive property damage both of very large individual or catastrophe event claims.
Proportional quota man-made catastrophes or natural motor and household to a significant share reinsurance and co-insurance also mitigate the impact of this risk.
proportion of the portfolio, leading to a large total claims cost in relation to the event.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 34 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Risk Impact Mitigating Factors Insurance risk continued Reduced availability of co-insurance and reinsurance arrangements Admiral uses proportional A potential need to raise additional Admiral mitigates the risk to its reinsurance arrangements by ensuring that co-insurance and reinsurance across capital to support an increased it has adiverse range of financially secure partners.
Admiral continues to its insurance businesses to reduce underwriting share.
This could enjoy a long term relationship with one ofthe worlds largest reinsurers, itsown capital needs and increase beinthe form of equity or debt.
Munich Re, which has supportedAdmiral since 2000. return on the capital it does hold Return on capital might reduce Admiral also has relationships with a number of other reinsurers.
andto mitigate the cost and risk of compared to current levels.
As well as UK Motor, long term arrangements are also in place for UK Household and International businesses.
There is a risk that support will not be available in the future if the results and or future prospects of either the UK business or more realistically one or more of the newer operations are not satisfactory to the coand orreinsurers.
Group risk Erosion of competitive advantage in UK Car Insurance Admiral typically maintains a A worse UK Car Insurance result and Admirals focus remains on the wide range of factors that contribute to significant combined ratio advantage lower return on capital employed.
Admirals combined ratio outperformance of the UK market.
Some are over the UK market.
This advantage setout on page 34, butinaddition: A sustained and uncorrected erosion and or the level of underwriting profit of competitive advantage could affect Track record of innovation and ability to react quickly to market and associated profit commission the ability of Admiral to extend its conditions and developments: and could be eroded.
reinsurance arrangements, which Keen focus on maintaining a low-cost infrastructure and efficient This risk could be exacerbated by might in turn require Admiral acquisition costs.
Failure of geographic and or product expansion Admiral continues to develop and Higher than planned losses and Admirals approach to expansion and product development remains support the UK household and potentially closure costs and conservative, applying the test and learn philosophy that has proven successful overseasoperations.
International insurance businesses have executed cautious launch strategies and are all backed by proportional reinsurance support One or more of the operations could A collective failure of these businesses which provides substantial mitigation against start-up losses in the early years.
failto become a sustainable, would threaten Admirals objective to profitable long term business.
diversify its earnings by expanding New price comparison businesses have aligned their marketing investment into new markets andproducts.
with the extent of improvement in key performance indicators such as Product expansion into new areas average cost per quote and conversion ratio.
The Group also considers couldlead to unprofitable business partial disposals of equity to share start-up losses with partners.
The Directors are mindful of management stretch and regularly assess the suitability of the management structure in place for Admirals new UK and international operations.
Potential diminution of Other Revenue Admiral earns Other Revenue Lower profits from insurance Admiral continuously assesses the value to its customer of the products fromaportfolio of products operations and lower return itoffers, and makes changes to ensure the products continue to meet andothersources.
customer needs and offer goodvalue.
The level of this revenue could Admiral seeks to minimise reliance on any single source by earning revenue diminish due to regulatory or legal from a range ofproducts.
This would mitigate the impact of a regulatory changes, customer behaviour change which might affect aparticular product or income stream.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 35 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Impact Mitigating Factors Group risk continued Competition in UK price comparison Admiral is dependent on the four A potentially material reduction in UK Admirals ownership of Confused.
com one of the leading UK price comparison main UK price comparison websites Car Insurance new businessvolumes.
websites which operates independently of the UK Car Insurance business as an important source of new helps to mitigate the risk ofover-reliance on this distribution channel.
com of higher business andgrowth.
levels of competition in the price Admiral also contributes materially to the revenues of other price comparison Growth in this distribution channel comparison market, either through the businesses and therefore it is not considered probable that a material source could slow, cease or reverse, or aggressive activities of existing players ofnewbusiness would be lost.
Admiral could lose one or more of the or the entry of significant new The management of Confused.
com maintain a very keen awareness of the websites as a source of customers.
participants would be to lower profits.
However, a more competitive market might benefit the car insurance business through lower acquisition costs.
Legal and regulatory risk Failure to comply with legal Exposure to regulatory intervention, Mitigated by regular review of the Groups compliance with current and or regulatory requirements censure and or enforcement action proposed requirements including the General Data Protection Regulation and orchanges.
and interaction withregulators by Executive Management and the Board.
Unexpected regulatory changes As the Solvency II regime comes into effect, the Group will commence its areintroduced.
transition to using a Partial Internal Model to calculate its capital requirement.
Whilst the level of Capital Add-On to be applied to the Solvency II Standard Formula has been agreed with the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA, there is an inevitable level of general uncertainty as the new regulatory regime comes into effect.
There is investment in resources to prepare for a Partial Internal Model application which is expected to be made during 2017.
The project will have regular progress updates with the Board and Regulators.
Counterparty risk Credit risk of significant counterparties Admiral is primarily exposed to Additional capital may need to be Admiral only conducts business with reinsurers of appropriate financial creditrisk in the form of a default raised as a result of a major credit strength.
In addition, most material reinsurance contracts are operated on ofreinsurer:b failure of banking event, dependent on its nature a funds withheld basis, which substantially reduces credit risk, as Admiral orinvestment counterparty.
holds the cash received from policyholders as collateral.
One or more counterparties Admiral would also need to ensure Concentrations of credit risk in respect of investments are managed by investing suffersignificant losses leading that it continues to have sufficient in liquidity funds and other mandates which invest in a wide range of short toacreditdefault.
liquid assets to meet its claims and duration, high quality securities.
Cash balances and deposits are placed other liabilities as they fell due.
only with highly rated credit institutions.
Some long term investments are held in Government bonds.
Admiral considers counterparty exposure frequently and in significant detail, and has in place appropriate triggers and limits, to mitigate exposure to individual investment counterparties.
Operational risk People risk Failure to recruit, develop and retain Unable to successfully carry out Admiral We aim to attract, retain and motivate quality staff to deliver quality suitable talent.
Group strategy and achieve goals.
customer service and achieve business objectives.
People who like what they do, do it better.
We seek to establish a motivational culture through various staff benefits and rewards underpinned by communication, equality, recognition and fun.
Admiral is also able to attract and retain staff through the employee shareschemes.
Succession planning is based on targeted recruitment, identifying potentialleaders through internal development, talent management .
Further detail on how Admiral interacts with its employees is set out on pages 38 to 39 and in the CSR Report available online.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 36 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Risk Impact Mitigating Factors Operational risk continued Process risk A failure in processes or failure Fraud, unanticipated lossand or Internal controls are in place and monitored to minimise the risk and the oftheirassociated controls.
The internal audit function has an agreed cycle of testing of the adequacy and effectiveness of controls.
The resulting reports are reviewed by the Audit Committee, Group Risk Committee, Executive Management and the Boards.
Technology risk Failure to invest in, and successfully Unable to support the required growth Regular review of the effectiveness of the Groups IT capability by Executive implement, appropriate technology and development essential for future Management and the Board.
particularly Guidewire implementation business success, maintaining Strong project governance and oversight of new systems implementations in the UK to support the Groups competitor advantage and developing with external specialist review and assurance where required.
Cyber risk Financial loss, data loss, business Availability of systems and data: Within IT there is a major incident team which is tasked with maintaining disruption or damage to the reputation Unable to operate the business for system availability, with Business Continuity Plans BCP and Disaster of the Group from failure of the anindeterminate period, depending Recovery DR plans in place.
information technology systems upon the severity of the attack.
Security controls are in place covering logical and physical assets to reduce derived from internal or Integrity of data: Potential for data the risk of unauthorised access to data.
corruption impeding the ability to Data is backed up to allow for its recovery in the event of corruption.
All staff receive mandatory training around IT Security and Data Protection.
Confidentiality of data: Potential for data breaches or loss of intellectual property.
Adherence with Security policies is monitored.
Outcomes: Potential customer detriment and or potential regulatory censure.
Customer outcome risk Failure of products, processes Potential customer detriment Admiral operates the three lines of defence model for overseeing its orservicesto meet customer and and or potential regulatory products, processes and service.
At each stage of the customer journey regulator expectations and failure censure enforcement and or customer outcomes are monitored, managed and reported in order to toaddress customer complaints reputational damage as a result mitigate customer detriment.
Further detail on how Admiral interacts with its customers is set out on page10 and in the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Report availableonline.
co. uk our-community  This Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Henry Engelhardt Chief Executive Officer 2 March 2016 ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 37
