Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Strategic report Risk management, internal control andviability reporting The effectiveness of the internal controls In the assessment of the viability of the Assessment of principal risks was regularly reviewed by the Board, Group, the Directors considered each As described further in the Risk Audit Committee and Risk Committee of the Principal risks set out on pages 40 Report, the Board is responsible for during the year.
This involved receiving to 41 of the Strategic report.
In addition, determining the nature and extent of reports from management including the assessment has been performed the principal risks it is willing to take in reports from Finance, Risk, Compliance, with reference to the Groups current order to achieve its strategic objectives.
Internal Audit and the business lines.
Details of the TheBoard is also ultimately responsible TheAudit Committee also receives Groups financial performance, capital for maintaining sound risk management reports on internal controls from the management, business environment and and internal control systems.
In line with Groups External Auditor.
Where outlook are set out on pages 3 to 37. the Code requirements, the Directors recommendations are identified for have performed a robust assessment In making this assessment, the Directors improvements to controls these are of the principal risks facing the Group, have considered a wide range of monitored by Internal Audit who report including those that would threaten its information relating to present and the progress made in implementing business model, future performance, future conditions, including the current them to the Audit Committee.
state of the balance sheet, future Based on the review performed during projections of profitability, cash flows The principal risks are further described the year, and the monitoring and and capital resources.
The information on pages 40 to 41 and the current oversight activities performed, the considered includes a wide range of strategic risks are described on page 42.
Audit Committee, in conjunction with stress testing which is performed as part Risk management and the Risk Committee, concluded that the of both the ICAAP and ILAA processes Groups risk management and internal as further described in the Risk report on internal controls control systems were effective and page 109.
The Board monitors the Groups risk recommended a statement to this effect management and internal control Based on the above assessment, the to the Board.
A review of the effectiveness Directors have concluded that there is a of the systems has been performed Based on this assessment, the Board are reasonable expectation that the Group incorporating all material controls, satisfied with the effectiveness of the will be able to continue in operation and including financial, operational and Groups risk management and internal meet its liabilities as they fall due over compliance controls.
The Groups risk management and This Strategic report was approved by Viability internal control systems are designed the Board and signed on its behalf by In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of UK to identify, manage, monitor and report Corporate Governance Code, published on risks to which the Group is exposed.
by the Financial Reporting Council It can therefore only provide reasonable in September 2014 the Code, the but not absolute assurance against the Directors have assessed the prospects of risk of material misstatement or loss.
the Group over a three-year time horizon Further details of the processes and Phillip Monks to 31 December 2018. procedures for managing and mitigating Director these risks are provided in the Risk report The Directors concluded that a threefrom page 110. year time horizon is an appropriate 9 March 2016 length of time to perform the assessment over because this is the period over which financial forecasts have a greater level of certainty.
TheBoard monitor a longer term strategic plan which extends beyond the three-year horizon.
This longer term strategic plan provides less certainty of outcome, but provides a robust planning tool against which strategic decisions can be made.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43 Corporate governance In this section UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 statement ofcompliance 44 Chairmans introduction 45 Board of Directors 46 Executive Committee 48 Corporate governance structure 49 The Board rolesandprocesses 50 Relations with shareholders 59 Corporate Governance andNomination CommitteeReport 60 Audit Committee Report 62 Risk Committee Report 70 Remuneration CommitteeReport 74 Directors Report 76 UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code statement of compliance The Board is committed to the highest that from the IPO to the date of this This corporate governance report standards of corporate governance.
report the Group has complied with describes how the Board has applied the Prior to the IPO in March 2015, the the requirements of the Code, which principles of the Code and provides a Group was not required to follow the sets out principles relating to the good clear and comprehensive description of Code although it did take account governance of companies.
The Board confirms The Code is available at www.
uk 44 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
