Strategic report Risk overview Risk Management Framework Risk principles The Risk Management Framework is We manage risk in line with the following principles: the collection of tools, processes and Strong risk governance: methodologies that support the business Risk is managed using the three lines of defence principle separating risk to identify, assess, monitor and control origination from risk oversight and risk assurance, with governance provided the risks it faces.
This framework outlines by formal committees, including the Boards Risk Committee and Audit the means by which the Board and senior Committee.
See page 108 for further details management establish the Groups Independent risk oversight: strategy in relation to its risk appetite and Group Risk is the risk oversight function independent of the business with an articulates how we identify, measure and independent reporting line to the Board Risk Committee.
It is the basis of the manage risk.
Senior management ensure Second Line of Defence.
See page 108 for further details that the Risk Management Framework is embedded in its day-to-day management Defined risk appetite: and control activities.
A clearly defined Risk Appetite Framework is aligned to our business strategy and reflects the Boards prudent approach towards risk taking.
See page 106 See page 105 for further details.
for further details Risk transparency and control: All risks are measured, monitored, managed and reported.
All are subject to appropriate controls and governance.
Responsibility for the identification, assessment, measurement, monitoring and management of risks rests with the First Line of Defence, overseen by Group Risk.
See page 108 for further details Value preservation: The protection of our reputation is paramount.
Everything we do is guided by the principle of putting the customer at the centre of what we do.
It informs our business strategy, the way in which we do business and the manner in which we treat our customers and other stakeholders Risk culture We have established and maintain a Our employees should be risk aware, strong culture focusing on empowerment, understand accountabilities and customer-centricity, risk-awareness and consequences of not adhering to policies responsibility supported by our brand and procedures as we aim to strike pillars of exceptional service, transparency the right balance between openness, and community.
Our performance accountability and effective performance management processes promote management.
An understanding of risk sound risk management and incentivise and the risk appetites is embedded appropriate behaviour in our employees.
within business practices alongside a close collaboration with risk and compliance functions.
38 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Effective risk management is a key component of our strategy ofsupporting UK SMEs, homeowners, landlords and savers.
Ourapproachto risk combines an effective Risk Management Frameworkwith a strong risk management culture.
Achievements in 2015 Priorities for 2016 We continue to deliver against our strategy of delivering for our customers and We expect the risk agenda in 2016 shareholders while maintaining prudent capital, funding and liquidity positions.
to remain focused on the continually In addition to the ongoing process and systems enhancements, our Risk function evolving regulatory landscape has played a key role in supporting strategic progress via: and ongoing enhancements to our internal risk processes and Capital position: Our successful listing in March 2015 provided access to the methodologies including: equity capital markets and enabled us to raise 75m of gross primary equity to support our growth plans.
Our fully loaded CRD IV CET1 ratio was 11.8% as at Further progress of IFRS 9: 31 December 2015 Which replaces the incurred loss approach to impairment with one Risk Management Framework: Enhanced the overarching approach to based on expected losses the management of risk across the Group.
As part of this, the Operational Risk Management Framework has been updated to conform to the Basel SMCR: Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS criteria for the sound management Which has a greater focus on decisionof operational risk making individuals in the top tiers of a firm and came into force in March 2016.
Risk Appetite Framework: A revised Risk Appetite Framework was adopted which links together our business objectives, the overarching risk appetite with Internal Ratings-Based detailed key risk indicators and performance metrics Approach IRB : We intend to pursue an IRB approach Governance structure: In 2015 an enhanced governance structure was and have mobilised a team to look at implemented, providing improved focus on risk management at the Board, the transition.
The initial phase will be to Executive and Management levels understand the requirements to move Resourcing: Further recruitment of risk management resources has helped over time from a standardised capital strengthen risk management in the first line of defence as well as improved model to an advanced approach using oversight capacity in the second line of defence internal models Funding: Our loans to deposit ratio reduced to 107% as we continued to Business Assurance Framework: effectively manage the balance between wholesale and deposit funding to drive As part of our ongoing process an efficient cost of funds of continual improvement to risk management, we are reviewing our Impairment: As a result of our continued rigorous focus on risk management, business assurance framework to align together with the relatively benign credit environment, we reduced our cost of this to the risk and control assessment risk from 23 basis points to 19 basis points process and ensure it remains appropriate for our needs Liquidity: Implemented international standards for Liquidity Risk Management LRM and integrated our wholesale liability management with the Operational risk quantification: savings division Enhancing the quantification of Operational risk: Increased the awareness of operational risk management operational risk to support the Internal across the Group through engagement and training.
Risk & Control SelfCapital Adequacy Assessment Process Assessment process enhanced and deployed across the business to provide an ICAAP and risk appetite reporting accurate assessment of our operational risk profile.
Embedded operational risk for both expected and unexpected managers established within first line business units operational risks Conduct risk: Enhanced conduct risk framework by strengthening product governance controls, improving conduct risk metrics across the product life cycle and increasing awareness and understanding of conduct risk management across the Group through engagement and training Regulatory: Delivered a framework to address the requirements of the Senior Manager and Certification Regime SMCR and establish appropriate oversight Financial crime: Implemented enhanced monitoring and surveillance systems for Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Finance Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39
