Strategic report Principal risks Principal risks Mitigation Key risk measures Commentary Strategic and business risk Remain focused on a Underlying return RoE has improved as we 1 sustainable business model on equity % continue to increase lending The risks that can affect our which is aligned to the while improving the net interest ability to achieve our corporate Groups strategy margin, driving cost income ratio 20.6 and strategicobjectives.
lower and delivering a low and 15.1 consistent cost of risk.
2014 2015 Focus on business Cost of risk bps Improved cost of risk reflects Credit risk sectors where we have continued focus on underwriting The risk of financial loss arising specific expertise and credit risk management from a borrower failing to meet as well as the relatively benign Limit concentration of 23 their financial obligations to external credit environment.
19 exposures by size, geography theGroup.
and sector Obtain appropriate level of security cover along with 2014 2015 affordability testing Detailed lending policies embedded in all business areas Portfolio performance against risk appetite regularly reviewed Stress testing See page 110 for furtherinformation Maintain a liquidity buffer, Liquidity coverage Liquidity coverage ratio is well in Liquidity risk which is based on requirements excess of current and expected ratio % The risk that we are not able to under stressed conditions future regulatory requirements.
meet our financial obligations as Monitor liquidity buffer on 270 they fall due, or can do so only at 235 a daily basis to ensure there excessive cost.
are sufficient liquid assets at all times See page 123 for 2014 2015 further information We do not seek to take or No material risk.
Market risk expose the Group to market The financial impact from risk and we do not carry out movements in market prices on proprietary trading the value of assets and liabilities.
See page 125 for further information 1 Excludes IPO-related expenses at 4.1 million pre-tax and 3.4 million post tax in 2015 2014: 6.0 million and 4.6 million respectively.
40 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Principal risks Mitigation Key risk measures Commentary Interest rate risk Match interest rate structure of Hedged xed rate Percentage un-hedged remains assets with liabilities or deposits assets v liabilities % well within our tolerance of 5%.
The risk of financial loss through creating a natural hedge un-hedged or mismatched asset Alternatively, we will enter into 99.5 100 and liability positions sensitive to swap agreements to convert changes in interest rates.
fixed interest rate liabilities into variable rate liabilities, which are then matched with variable interest rate assets 2014 2015 See page 125 for further information Regulate the volume of Fully loaded Increase in CET1 ratio driven by Capital risk loan origination 2015 retained earnings of 78m CRD IV CET1 ratio % The risk that we have insufficient plus 75m of gross primary equity Monthly forecasting of capital to cover regulatory raised at IPO partially offset by 1218 month capital outlook 11.8 requirements or growth plans.
10.4 growth in risk weighted assets as Stress testing and lending has increased.
sensitivity analysis See page 126 for 2014 2015 further information Embed and ensure all staff We agree a tolerated level of Operational risk understand and follow losses arising from operational The risk of financial loss and or the Operational Risk risk events.
During 2015, we have reputational damage resulting Management Framework operated within risk appetite.
from inadequate or failed internal Oversight and challenge from processes, people and systems Group Risk or from external events including financial crime.
Monitoring of the operational risk profile Strengthened cyber security See page 129 for further information Conduct Risk Framework We utilise a composite metric Conduct risk which takes into account a Product Governance The risk of causing unfair number of factors including Framework outcomes and detriment to customer complaints and Conduct Risk built into our customers, regulatory customer detriment suffered as a Risk & Control Selfcensure and or undermining result of product design, product Assessment process market integrity as a result of sales and post-sale processes.
our behaviour, decision-making, Monitor first line conduct risk This includes actual detriment or activities or processes.
metrics covering the product emerging issues which may lead life cycle to detriment.
During the year, we remained within our overall Oversight and challenge riskappetite.
fromGroup Risk See page 130 for further information Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41
