t 18 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 Risk Management This section of the report deals with the structure of the Groups controls.
Individual risk and control owners are assigned Risk Management Framework and risk reporting prior to the with explicit responsibility for the ongoing monitoring and implementation, after the year end, of the change in structure management of risks.
This is reinforced through minimum which was announced in October 2015. standards communicated via the Group Policy Framework.
Quarterly risk outlook workshops are undertaken to consider and assess potential changes to the risk profile, including future Risk Management Framework risks, of the Group.
The Group has a Risk Management Framework that provides a robust and comprehensive approach for the identification and management of key risks facing the business.
Effectiveness of the Risk Management and Internal Control Systems The Framework helps in the assessment and management of current and future risks.
Principal Risk categories include We undertake an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Prudential, Operational, Strategic and Regulatory & Conduct Risk.
Risk Framework see diagram below.
The Risk Management Framework supports two key processes: The most recent assessment was presented to the Audit & Risk Committee following the year end and noted that there were - the ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process, no significant concerns to highlight.
which helps to determine the capital requirements including potential stress points of the Group: and An annual report on the effectiveness of the internal control systems is provided to the Board.
This includes a review of - the ILAAP Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process, all material financial, prudential, operational and compliance which helps to determine the liquidity requirements controls.
The report builds on the reporting of each line of including potential stress points of the Group.
defence that is provided across the course of the year through the governance committees up to the Board.
Risk Appetite The latest report was presented to the Audit & Risk Committee Risk appetite statements have been approved by the Board and following the year end and no material issues were identified.
provide the basis for the level of risk the Group is prepared to accept.
A suite of risk appetite metrics have been agreed and activity is monitored against stated triggers and limits.
Risk universe Risk Risk Governance Committees appetite The Board Risk Committee comprised Non-Executive Directors, Policies with delegated responsibility from the Board to provide oversight and challenge to the appropriateness of the Risk Management Governance Management Framework and the forward-looking risks facing information the Group.
Risk Risk management measurement organisation The Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Finance Director and comprising members of the senior management Embed Culture Conduct risk practices of the Group, ensured that the key risks were identified, monitored, assessed and controlled.
The Committees received reports of Risk Exposures and Events, Principal Risks as well as discussing any breaches of the agreed risk appetite.
In common with other financial services organisations, our Our new structure now combines Audit and Risk into one business model results in a number of inherent risks which are committee whose primary focus will be the current and future continuously monitored and managed.
The risks have been risks of the Company rather than those of the Group and categorised as Prudential, Operational, Strategic and Regulatory we believe that the framework is appropriate for our new & Conduct Risks.
The Board carried out a robust assessment of governance arrangements.
the principal risks that the Group could face, their mitigants and the trend of the likelihood of the risk materialising.
The arrows in the table show whether the risks are regarded as increasing Risk and Control Self-Assessment RCSA s, decreasing t or unchanged compared to the previous year.
The results of this assessment which forms part The RCSA is the methodology that allows the Group to identify of the Group ICAAP are noted on the next page.
and assess risks, and define and perform quarterly testing of t Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 19 Prudential Risks Risk Change Description Mitigating activities Investment performance fails to deliver sufficient capital Asset allocation strategy and governance growth due to poor stock selection, sector allocation or Robust investment process wider market movements.
Investment Compliance with investment parameters regularly tested underperformance Stress and scenario testing of portfolios Risk and performance management information regularly reviewed at Executive and Board level The Company or its subsidiaries do not have sufficient Majority of investments are in listed equities liquid resources to ensure that they meet their liabilities Daily monitoring of cash and bond positions as they fall due during normal and stressed times.
Liquidity Asset and Liability Committee regularly reviews shortage exposures Gearing availability Operational Risks Risk Change Description Mitigating activities Failure to ensure that the business is adequately Systems and controls to protect the business protected against the threat of cyber attack, which may regularly tested lead to significant business disruption or external fraud.
Ongoing monitoring of environment to understand Despite action taken by management to improve threat landscape Cyber attack systems the increasing trend is due to the general Programme of enhancements to keep pace with latest growth in cyber related incidents across the industry.
defence strategies Business continuity plans in place should an incident occur Failure to manage projects effectively, leading to issues Change management framework rigorously applied with cost, quality and reputational impact.
Regular Management Information on projects provided Ineffective to Executive and Board level change delivery Strategic Risks Risk Change Description Mitigating activities Stock market action involving Alliance Trust results in Continuous monitoring against KPIs at Board level Performance uncertainty around the business model and impact on Regular meeting with shareholders performance current and future.
impacted Regular reviews of business model and strategy The increasing risk trend is due to continued focus by by external Ongoing review of political and economic environment shareholders on delivery of the Trusts strategy.
factors Alliance Trust Savings or Alliance Trust Investments do Regular reporting to Board of performance against plan not meet their business plans, causing the Company to Active management of costs Subsidiary fail to make a return on its investment.
Reviews of threats to revenue streams and undermanagement of key clients performance Diversified proposition Regulatory and Conduct Risks Risk Change Description Mitigating activities Failure to ensure that systems and controls are adequate Risk Control Self-Assessment process regularly assesses to allow compliance with all relevant regulatory robustness of control environment requirements.
First line assurance and second line compliance Regulatory monitoring programme nonRegulatory developments process to ensure changes compliance are appropriately implemented Verification activities by Depositary as part of AIFM Directive requirements Risk of significant customer impact as a result of poor Culture puts customer at heart of the business customer service caused by operational stretch or Customer outcome Management Information regularly compounded strategic change.
reviewed at operational, Executive and Board level Customer detriment
