Risk and risk management Rigorous and consistent risk management As a True Customer Composite, we have chosen to accept the risks inherent in our core business lines of life, accident & health, general insurance and assetmanagement We achieve significant diversification of We receive premiums which we invest in risk through our scale, our multi-product order to maximise risk-adjusted returns, offering to customers, the differing sothat we can fulfil our promises to countries we choose to operate in and customers whilst providing a return to through the different distribution channels ourshareholders.
In doing so, we accept we use to sell products to our customers.
the inherent risks set out below, with a Our business is about protecting our preference for those risks we believe we are customers from the impact of risk.
capable of managing to generate a return: R Ri isk sks c s cu us st to om me er rs s Risks from Risks from our operations t tr ra an ns sfe fer r to to u us s investments and other business risks General insurance risk is the Uncertain returns on our Operational risk is the risk of Inherent riskarising from loss events investments as a result of credit direct or indirect loss, arising from risks to fire, flooding, windstorms, risk actual defaults and market inadequate or failed internal accidents etc.
expectation of defaults and processes, people and systems, or our market risks resulting from external events including changes Accident & Health insurance risk chosen fluctuations in asset values, in the regulatory environment.
covers healthcare costs and loss lines of including equity prices, property Such operational failures may ofearnings arising from customers prices, foreign exchange, inflation impact our customers or our business falling ill. and interest rates affect our ability reputation with the public, Life insurance risk includes to fund our promises to customers customers, agents and the longevity risk annuitants living and other creditors, as well as pay regulator, and impair our ability longer than we expect, mortality areturn to our shareholders.
risk customers with life protection Some of our life and savings Asset management risk is the risk dying, critical illness risk, expense contracts provide guaranteed of customers redeeming funds, risk the amount it costs us to minimum investment returns to not investing with us, or switching administer policies and customers and as a result we accept funds, resulting in reduced fee persistency risk customers lapsing from them investment type risks income.
We manage funds on or surrendering their policies.
such as credit and market risk in behalf of our customers so they do order to offer upside potential not have to manage the credit, butprovide protection against market and operational risks thedownside.
which otherwise they would have Liquidity risk is the risk of not to manage themselves.
being able to make payments as they become due because there are insufficient assets in cash form.
We take measured amounts of life, We like credit risk because we believe we We aim to reduce operational and The risks health and general insurance risks, in have the expertise to manage it.
As an asset management risks to as low a we prefer line with our core skills in underwriting insurer, our long-dated, relatively illiquid level as is commercially sensible, on the and pricing.
liabilities enable us to earn superior basis that taking operational risk will We have a preference for those investment returns by allowing us to rarely provide us with an upside.
risks that we understand well, which invest in higher-yielding, but less liquid, are intrinsically well-managed and assets such as commercial mortgages.
where there is a spread of risks in the While actively seeking some same category.
market risks as part of our investment We like longevity risk as it diversifies and product strategy, we have a well i. e. has little or no correlation limited appetite for interest rate, against other risks we retain.
General foreign exchange and inflation risks insurance risk diversifies well with our aswe do not believe that these are life insurance and other risks.
62 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 R Strategic report e p o r t e r u s a e M M o n i t We also assess risks on the basis of their Principal risk types potential impact on the value of our While the types of risk to which the franchise, which is supported by our Group is exposed, set out on the previous reputation, brand and good customer page, have not changed significantly over relationships.
Conduct and operational the year, the successful completion of the risks, such as cyber security breaches, data acquisition of Friends Life has increased loss and IT systems failure, in particular our relative exposure to equity price risk have the potential to significantly impact and UK life insurance risks, in particular our franchise value.
Our top three risks assessed on the basis of their potential impact on our economic balance sheet arecredit risk, longevity risk and 1 persistency risk.
How we manage our risks } Our risk governance: Includes risk Our core expertise is in understanding and managing risks, so that we can policies and business standards, risk oversight committees and roles and competitively price our products, deliver We believe a strong on our promises to customers and responsibilities.
Line management in the business is accountable for risk provide sustainable earnings growth to system of risk our shareholders.
management which, together with management is essential therisk function and internal audit, Rigorous and consistent risk management is embedded across the form our three lines of defence of in ensuring that our risk management.
group through our Risk Management business runs smoothly, Framework and is underpinned by: } Our processes: The processes we use supports good decision } Our risk appetite: The risks that we to identify, measure, manage, monitor making and helps to select in pursuit of return, the risks we and report risks, including the use accept but seek to minimise and the ofour risk models and stress and deliver our strategic aims risks we seek to avoid or transfer, scenario testing.
Having identified and including quantitative expressions of measured the risks of our business, the level of risk we can support e. g. depending on our risk appetite, we Angela Darlington the amount of capital we are prepared Chief Risk Officer either accept these risks or take action to put at risk to reduce, transfer or mitigate them.
Risk management framework 1 Ranked by diversified Solvency II Solvency CapitalRequirement Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 63 o r y f i t n e d I M a n a g e Risk and risk management continued Conduct risk Management This is about delivering good outcomes for our customers at each stage of the product lifecycle: the design and development of our products, the sales process, servicing policies and handling claims.
Failure to do so undermines our reputation and as a result our ability to attract new customers.
As part of our conduct risk management framework, we have been developing more granular and relevant conduct risk management information, insights from which have resulted in changes toproduct terms and conditions as wellas improving key customer relatedprocesses.
To help ensure our risk exposures are Risk mitigation within appetite, specific risk mitigation The risks we have a preference for are actions taken in 2015 included: managed principally through: 90% Renewal of catastrophe reinsurance extensive use of data, financial models programme of major UK businesses had a cyber breach and analysis at point of risk selection 1 of security in the last year i. e. investment or underwriting Reinsurance of our exposure, currently estimated at 0.7 billion, to future setting underwriting and investment claims arising from historic UK limits to our underwriting exposures to Current and emerging risks employers liability business which single risks and classes of business and andcausal factors maytake a number of years to emerge investment exposures by asset class, We also manage and monitor risks and counterparty, geography, sector and Hedging activity, including use of causal factors which may impact our other pre-established risk criteria, such interest rate swaps, to match our current and longer term profitability and as credit rating cashflow to our annuity portfolio more viability, in particular our ability to write effectively, as well as continuation of profitable new business.
We take account our equity, credit and foreign exchange of these risks and possible causal factors risk hedging programmes when developing our long-term business RAC staff pension scheme longevity strategy and contingency plans.
We may swap covering circa 0.6 billion of take short-term tactical risk mitigation pensioner in payment scheme liabilities actions as these risks become proximate, For us, conduct risk reducing our longevity risk exposure and, if appropriate, engage with management is all about Investment in our Security governments and regulators to help doing the right thing for Transformation programme to inform the development of public policy, improveour residual risk position for as set out on the following page.
our customers cyber security On-going investment in simplifying ourtechnology estate to improve the Kirstie Caneparo resilience and reliability of our systems Group Compliance Officer 1 Research quoted by UK Governments Department for Culture, Media and Sport 64 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Risks andcausal factors Ensuring a sustainable Ensuring resilience through Business Strategy Contingency Planning In developing our business strategy we consider trends in We have plans in place to ensure a swift and effective response risks which, without adapting our business model, could in case risks crystallise into major loss events, including: make it obsolete.
For example: } Financial Event Response Plans to ensure we can respond } New technologies: Failing to understand and react to the promptly to severe adverse financial events e. g. an equity impact of new technology and its effect on customer market crash, sovereign default etc.
which may weaken the behaviour and how we distribute products, could financial position of Aviva potentially undermine our competitive position } Business Continuity Plans to ensure we can } Prolonged low interest rates: If current low continue to operate and serve our customers in interest rates continue for a prolonged the event of terrorism, a pandemic, a period it will adversely affect the cyber-attack or other events disrupting Cyber spread we can earn between our operations the returns we can offer crime } Major Incident Response Plans customers and the return we to ensure we can maintain Political earn on our investments, Pandemics our level of customer service risk as well as the new diseases in response to a spike in & antibiotic resistance attractiveness of the Macroeconomic demand resulting from a growth returns we can offer to major weather event e. g. Changes in Regulatory new customers floods, windstorms or customer change } Cyber and data loss: other loss events.
New & emerging behaviour Increasing threat of We use war-gaming to Current cyber criminals latent claims Prolonged low test the effectiveness & requires ongoing of our plans in the New interest rate improvement in our emerging event these risks environment IT security and data technologies risks crystallise.
Medical Climate Digital advances Big skills gap change & healthier data life styles Public policy Tactical Financial Catastrophes market Engagement Action shocks Referendum on We actively engage with As risks or causal factors become UK membership governments and regulators in more proximate, we may take of EU the development of public policy short-term tactical risk mitigation and regulation, as changes in actions.
For example, uncertainty over government policy on insurance, long term the outcome of the UK General Election in savings and pension provision, and in regulation, May 2015 and Greeces Eurozone membership can significantly impact demand for our products, the were factors behind temporary increases in equity hedges types of product we offer customers, how we sell them taken out in April 2015. and how much capital we need to hold.
We also engage in key public policy debates, for example, the risks and impacts of climate change to our business and customers.
See page 15 for further information This Strategic Report on pages 1 65 was approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by Mark Wilson Group Chief Executive Officer Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 65 This page is intentionally blank 66 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015
