Risk and capital management Risk and capital management macroeconomic imbalances in the global economy.
In the UK Risk management objectives concerns over the outcome of the referendum on EU As a global insurance group, risk management is at the heart of membership may depress sterling and the price of gilts.
Despite what we do and is the source of value creation as well as a vital the recent increase in interest rates by the US Federal Reserve form of control.
It is an integral part of maintaining financial the current low interest rate environment compared to historical stability for our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders.
norms is likely to persist in the intermediate future at least.
Our sustainability and financial strength are underpinned by 2015 also saw a number of high profile cyber security an effective risk management process which helps us identify breaches for corporates in the UK and elsewhere and this risk is major risks to which we may be exposed, establish appropriate expected to increase in the future.
controls and take mitigating actions for the benefit of our Continuing on from 2014, 2015 saw further change in UK customers and investors.
The Groups risk strategy is to invest its public policy on pensions and from April 2016 annuitants will available capital to optimise the balance between return and risk have the option to sell their annuity income to a third party for a whilst maintaining an appropriate level of economic i. e. riskcash lump sum.
While in most of our markets conduct based capital and regulatory capital in accordance with our risk regulation and enforcement has received increased focus from appetite.
Consequently, our risk management objectives are to: national supervisors, as well as international supervisory bodies Embed rigorous risk management throughout the business, such as EIOPA and IAIS.
This is expected to continue into the based on setting clear risk appetites and staying within these: future.
Allocate capital where it will make the highest returns on a In November 2015 the Groups designation as a Global risk-adjusted basis: and Systemically Important Insurer G-SII was re-confirmed.
Among Meet the expectations of our customers, investors and other policy requirements, this will result in new higher loss regulators that we will maintain sufficient capital surpluses to absorbency HLA capital requirements, which are still under meet our liabilities even if a number of extreme risks development, to be applied from January 2019, if the Group materialise.
On 1 January 2016, Solvency II the new capital regime Avivas risk management framework has been designed and became effective.
In December 2015, the PRA approved use of implemented to support these objectives.
The key elements of the Groups internal model to calculate the regulatory capital our risk management framework comprise our risk appetite: risk requirement under Solvency II for much of the Groups governance, including risk policies and business standards, risk businesses.
Over the next year or two the Group plans to apply oversight committees and roles & responsibilities: and the to extend use of the internal model to other businesses within processes we use to identify, measure, manage, monitor and the Group, with a beneficial impact if approved by the PRA and report IMMMR risks, including the use of our risk models and the relevant national supervisory authorities on the Groups stress and scenario testing.
These elements are expanded in the capital requirement.
Risk profile Principal risks and uncertainties The types of risk to which the Group is exposed have not In accordance with the requirements of the FCA Handbook DTR changed significantly over the year and remain credit, market, 4.1.
8 we provide a description of the principal risks and insurance, asset management, liquidity, operational and uncertainties facing the Group here and in note 57 to the IFRS reputational risks as described in note 57 of the IFRS financial Financial statements.
Our disclosures covering risks relating to statements.
our business in line with reporting requirements of the The Group continues to manage its risk profile to reflect Securities Exchange Commission SEC provide more detail and Avivas objective of maintaining financial strength and reducing can be found in the shareholder information section Risks capital volatility.
In April 2015, the Group completed the relating to our business.
The principal impact of the acquisition on the Groups risk profile has been to increase our Risk environment exposure to equity price risk and UK life insurance risks, in The first half of 2015 saw strengthening economic growth in particular lapse risk, as well as reducing the Groups external Europe, benefitting from accommodative monetary policy, a leverage.
Work was undertaken during 2015 to adopt the Aviva weak euro, continued low oil prices, while economic growth in risk management framework in the former Friends Life the UK and US remained robust.
Up until April, a combination businesses.
of a positive macroeconomic outlook and the launch of the The Group continued to take steps to amend its risk profile, European Central Banks ECB quantitative easing programme successfully completing a number of management actions.
in March led to global equity markets reaching all-time highs, These include: the disposal of 2.2 billion of non-core weakening euro against the US dollar and pounds sterling, and commercial mortgages, the reinsurance of 0.7 billion of latent reduced yields on eurozone sovereign bonds.
exposures to historical UK employers liability business with In the latter half of the year concerns over the sustainability conditional agreement to extend coverage to 0.8 billion : the of current growth rates in developed economies, growing purchase of interest swaps to better cash flow match our evidence of an economic slowdown in China and other annuity portfolio: reducing exposure to longevity risk as a result emerging economies, further severe falls in the price of oil and of the RAC staff pension scheme entering into a longevity swap other commodities and geopolitical concerns over the Middle covering 0.6 billion of pensioner in payment liabilities: and East have depressed equity markets reversing earlier gains.
reducing our operational risk exposures through investment in Despite these concerns the US Federal Reserve were sufficiently our Security Transformation programme in response to the confident on the strength of the US economy to raise interest increasing cyber security risk and on-going investment in rates for the first time since 2006, which has underpinned the simplifying our technology estate to improve resilience and current strong US dollar.
Restrictions on non-domestic These concerns are likely to continue into 2016 with the investment in sovereign and corporate debt from Greece, Italy, potential to depress equity markets and cause further financial Portugal and Spain remain in place.
As described in note 57 to market volatility and divergence amongst developed economies the IFRS Financial statements, a number of foreign exchange, US compared to eurozone in particular in monetary policy, credit and equity hedges are also in place.
These are used to interest rates and economic growth, and exacerbate 308 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 308 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information mitigate the Groups credit and equity exposure, and enable the other stakeholders giving both our customers and Group to accept other credit risks offering better risk adjusted shareholders assurance of our financial strength: returns while remaining within appetite.
In addition, we optimise our overall debt to equity structure to enhance our renewed our catastrophe reinsurance programme to reduce the returns to shareholders, subject to our capital risk appetite and Groups potential loss to an extreme insurance loss event.
balancing the requirements of the range of stakeholders: During 2015, the Group continued to pay-down the interretain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity, company loan between Aviva Insurance Limited AIL and Aviva including significant unutilised committed credit facilities and Group Holdings AGH.
By the end of February 2016, the access to a range of capital markets: balance of the loan had been reduced to 1.5 billion, below the allocate capital rigorously across the Group, to drive value level at which we estimate AIL would no longer rely on the loan adding growth through optimising risk and return: and to meet its stressed liabilities.
declare dividends with reference to factors including growth in In 2015, the Group further enhanced the operating cash flows and earnings.
capability of its primary on-shore internal reinsurance mixing vehicle, Aviva International Insurance Limited AII, and in In line with these objectives, the capital generated and invested December, AII received approval to use Avivas internal model to by the Groups businesses is a key management focus.
These steps now successfully concluded should enable the Group to significantly increase the Accounting basis: Capital employed by segment and financing of capital amount of business ceded to AII, with the objective of The table below shows how our capital, on an IFRS basis, is promoting greater capital efficiency and realising the benefits of deployed by segment and how that capital is funded.
group diversification of risk through lower solo capital requirements in the ceding entities.
2015 2014 During 2015 the Group has continued to maintain its m m external leverage at a level commensurate with a AA rating.
Long-term savings 16,326 10,579 General insurance and health 5,870 6,007 Low interest rate environment Fund management 411 298 1 The Group continues to be adversely impacted by the low Corporate and other business 2,537 702 interest rate environment in a number of markets around the Total capital employed 25,144 17,586 world.
This has resulted in reduced interest spread on Financed by: participating contracts the difference between the amounts Equity shareholders funds 15,764 10,018 that we are required to pay under the contracts and the Non-controlling interests 1,145 1,166 investment income we are able to earn on the investments Direct capital instrument and tier 1 notes 1,123 892 Preference shares 200 200 supporting our obligations under those contracts, and current Subordinated debt 6,427 4,594 reinvestment yields being lower than the overall current Senior debt 485 716 portfolio yield, primarily for our investments in fixed income Total capital employed 25,144 17,586 securities and commercial mortgage loans.
We anticipate that 1 Corporate and other business includes centrally held tangible net assets, the main UK staff pension scheme interest rates may remain below historical averages for an surplus and also reflects internal lending arrangements.
These internal lending arrangements, which net out on extended period of time and that financial markets may consolidation, include the formal loan agreement between Aviva Group Holdings and Aviva Insurance Limited AIL.
continue to have periods of high volatility.
As a result we 2 Internal capital management mechanisms in place allocated a majority of the total capital of AIL to the UK continue to rebalance the Groups revenues towards product general insurance operations with the remaining capital deemed to be supporting residual non-operational Pillar II ICA risks.
lines, such as protection, that are not significantly sensitive to 3 Certain subsidiaries, subject to satisfying stand-alone capital and liquidity requirements, loan funds to corporate and holding entities.
These loans satisfy arms length criteria and all interest payments are made when due.
interest rate or market movements.
Further information on the Groups exposure to low interest rates is included in the Total capital employed is financed by a combination of equity sensitivity analysis in Note 57 of the IFRS Financial Statements.
shareholders funds, preference capital, subordinated debt and other borrowings.
Capital management At the end of 2015 we had 25.1 billion 2014: 17.6 Capital management objectives billion of total capital employed in our trading operations The primary objective of capital management is to optimise the measured on an IFRS basis.
balance between return and risk, whilst maintaining economic and regulatory capital in accordance with risk appetite.
Avivas Regulatory capital overview capital and risk management objectives are closely interlinked, Solvency II, the new Europe-wide prudential regulatory and support the dividend policy and earnings per share growth, framework, came into force on 1 January 2016.
This new whilst also recognising the critical importance of protecting regime puts in place a consistent solvency framework for policyholder and other stakeholder interests.
2015 was an important year for Aviva as Overall capital risk appetite, which is reviewed and approved it prepared for formal implementation of Solvency II on 1 by the Aviva Board, is set and managed with reference to the January 2016.
The Group has used a risk based capital model to requirements of a range of different stakeholders including assess economic capital requirements for a number of years shareholders, policyholders, regulators and rating agencies.
Risk which helped prepare for the new regime.
Avivas Group appetite is expressed in relation to a number of key capital and Solvency II partial internal model was approved in December risk measures, and includes a Solvency II capital risk appetite of 2015 by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
Whilst holding sufficient capital resources to enable the Group to meet Solvency II is applicable from 1 January 2016, during 2015 and its liabilities in extreme adverse scenarios, on an ongoing basis.
as at the year end the European Insurance Groups Directive Our risk appetite is consistent with a AA range credit rating.
Under the Solvency I regime effective until 31 December In managing capital we seek to: 2015, individual regulated subsidiaries measure and report maintain sufficient, but not excessive, financial strength in solvency based on applicable local regulations, including in the accordance with risk appetite, to support new business UK the regulations established by the PRA.
These measures are growth and satisfy the requirements of our regulators and also consolidated under the European Insurance Groups Directive IGD to calculate regulatory capital adequacy at an Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 309 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 309 Risk and capital management continued Risk and capital management continued aggregate Group level, where Aviva has a regulatory obligation With-Profits Fund FP WPF.
Realistic balance sheet information to have a positive position at all times.
for the five Friends Life FL with-profits funds that are closed to This measure represents the excess of the aggregate value of new business have been disclosed as Other FL WPFs including: regulatory capital employed in our business over the aggregate FPLAL With-Profits Fund FPLAL WPF, FLC New With-Profits minimum solvency requirements imposed by local regulators, Fund FLC New WPF, Old With-Profits Fund FLC Old WPF, excluding the surplus held in the UK and Ireland with-profit life FLAS With-Profits Fund FLAS WPF and WL With-Profits Fund funds.
The minimum solvency requirement for our European WL WPF.
These realistic liabilities have been included within businesses is based on the Solvency I Directive.
In broad terms, the long-term business provision and the liability for insurance for EU operations, this is set at 4% and 1% of non-linked and and investment contracts on the Groups IFRS Statement of unit-linked life reserves respectively and for our general financial position at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, insurance portfolio of business is the higher of 18% of gross with comparatives at 31 December 2014 including NWPSF, premiums or 26% of gross claims, in both cases adjusted to OWPSF and WPSF only.
reflect the level of reinsurance recoveries.
For our business in 31 31 Canada a risk charge on assets and liabilities approach is used.
December December From 1 January 2016 EU-based insurance groups are no 2015 2014 Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated longer required to disclose their solvency position under the Estimated Estimated realistic Capital risk excess excess European Insurance Groups Directive, as the regulatory realistic realistic inherited support capital available available 1 2 3 assets liabilities estate arrangement margin capital capital framework has been replaced by the new Solvency II regime.
As bn bn bn bn bn bn bn such, after 31 December 2015 Aviva will no longer disclose its NWPSF 14.0 14.0 2.1 0.2 1.9 1.9 solvency surplus under the IGD rules.
OWPSF 2.6 2.4 0.2 0.2 0.2 4 WPSF 16.7 15.2 1.5 0.3 1.2 1.3 5 FP WPF 7.2 7.0 0.2 0.2 Regulatory capital Group Other FL European Insurance Groups Directive 6 WPFs 10.7 10.7 31 31 Aggregate 51.2 49.3 1.9 2.1 0.7 3.3 3.4 UK life Other December December funds business 2015 2014 1 Realistic liabilities include the shareholders share of accrued bonuses of 0.8 billion 31 December 2014: 0.2 bn bn bn bn billion.
Realistic liabilities adjusted to eliminate the shareholders share of accrued bonuses are 48.5 billion 31 Insurance Groups Directive IGD December 2014: 33.0 billion.
These realistic liabilities make provision for guarantees, options and promises on a market consistent stochastic basis.
The value of the provision included within realistic liabilities is 1.4 billion, capital resources 11.8 10.8 22.6 14.4 0.3 billion, 3.2 billion, and 0.8 billion for NWPSF, OWPSF, WPSF and FP WPF respectively 31 December Less: capital resources requirement 11.8 4.8 16.6 11.2 2014: 1.4 billion, 0.3 billion and 3.0 billion for NWPSF, OWPSF and WPSF respectively.
2 Estimated realistic inherited estate at 31 December 2014 was nil, 0.3 billion and 1.6 billion for NWPSF, Insurance Groups Directive OWPSF and WPSF respectively.
IGD excess solvency 6.0 6.0 3.2 3 The support arrangement represents the reattributed estate RIEESA of 2.1 billion at 31 December 2015 31 Cover over EU minimum December 2014: 2.1 billion.
4 The WPSF fund includes the Ireland With-Profits Sub-Fund IWPSF and the Provident Mutual PM Fund which calculated excluding UK life have realistic assets and liabilities of 2.4 billion in total, and therefore do not contribute to the realistic funds 2.2 times 1.6 times inherited estate.
5 For FP WPF the realistic inherited estate is restricted to the estimated risk capital margin with excess available capital used to enhance asset shares.
The IGD regulatory capital solvency surplus has increased by 6 Includes FPLAL WPF, FLC New WPF, FLC Old WPF, FLAS WPF and WL WPF.
For these funds it is assumed that the entire estimated realistic inherited estate is distributed to policyholders.
2.8 billion since 31 December 2014 to 6.0 billion.
The key drivers of the increase are the acquisition of Friends Life 1.6 Investment mix billion, operating profits 1.6 billion and the net issue of The aggregate investment mix of the assets in the four main hybrid debt 0.4 billion, offset by dividend payments and with-profit funds at 31 December 2015 and three main withpension scheme funding 0.5 billion.
profit funds at 31 December 2014 was: The key movements over the period are set out in the following table: 31 31 December December 2015 2014 bn % % IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2014 3.2 Equity 30% 24% Acquisition of Friends Life 1.6 Property 10% 10% Operating profits net of integration and restructuring costs 1.6 Fixed interest 54% 59% 1 Net hybrid debt issue 0.4 6% 7% Other Dividends and appropriations 0.3 Pension scheme funding 0.2 The equity backing ratios, including property, supporting with- 2 Outward reinsurance of latent reserves 0.2 profit asset shares are 75% in NWPSF and OWPSF, 72% in Increase in capital resources requirement 0.1 WPSF and 45% in FP WPF.
Other regulatory adjustments 0.4 Estimated IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2015 6.0 Economic capital 1 Net hybrid debt issue includes 1 billion benefit of two new Tier 2 subordinated debt instruments issued on 4 June 2015: offset by 0.6 billion derecognition of two instruments redeemed in the second half of 2015.
We use a risk-based capital model to assess economic capital 2 Outward quota share reinsurance agreement completed in 2015 in Aviva Insurance Limited AIL.
requirements and to aid in risk and capital management across the Group.
The model is based on a framework for identifying Regulatory capital UK Life with-profits fund the risks to which business units, and the Group as a whole, are The available capital of the with-profits funds is represented by exposed.
Where appropriate, businesses also supplement these the realistic inherited estate.
The estate represents the assets of with additional risk models and stressed scenarios specific to the long-term with-profits funds less the realistic liabilities for their own risk profile.
When aggregating capital requirements at non-profits policies within the funds, less asset shares business unit and Group level, we allow for diversification aggregated across the with-profits policies and any additional benefits between risks and between businesses, with restrictions amounts expected at the valuation date to be paid to in-force to allow for non-fungibility of capital where appropriate.
This policyholders in the future in respect of smoothing costs, means that the aggregate capital requirement is less than the guarantees and promises.
Realistic balance sheet information is sum of capital required to cover all of the individual risks.
The shown below for the four main UK with-profits funds: New capital requirement reflects the cost of mitigating the risk of With-Profits Sub-Fund NWPSF, Old With-Profits Sub-Fund insolvency to a 99.5% confidence level over a one year time OWPSF, With-Profits Sub-Fund WPSF and Friends Provident 310 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 310 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other information horizon equivalent to events occurring in 1 out of 200 years against financial and non-financial tests.
The financial modelling techniques employed in economic capital enhance our practice of risk and capital management.
They enable understanding of the impact of the interaction of different risks allowing us to direct risk management activities appropriately.
These same techniques are employed to enhance product pricing and capital allocation processes.
Rating agency Credit ratings are an important indicator of financial strength and support access to debt markets as well as providing assurance to business partners and policyholders over our ability to service contractual obligations.
In recognition of this we have solicited relationships with a number of rating agencies.
The agencies generally assign ratings based on an assessment of a range of financial factors e. g. capital strength, liquidity, leverage and fixed charge cover ratios and non-financial factors e. g. strategy, competitive position and quality of management.
Certain rating agencies have proprietary capital models which they use to assess available capital resources against capital requirements as a component in their overall criteria for assigning ratings.
Managing our capital and liquidity position in accordance with our target rating levels is a core consideration in all material capital management and capital allocation decisions.
The Groups overall financial strength is reflected in our credit ratings.
The Groups rating from Standard and Poors is A strong with a Stable outlook: A1 good with a Stable outlook from Moodys: AAvery strong with a Stable outlook from Fitch Ratings: and A excellent with a Stable outlook from A. M. Best.
Financial flexibility The Groups borrowings are comprised primarily of long dated hybrid instruments with maturities spread over many years, minimising refinancing risk.
In addition to central liquid asset holdings of 1.0 billion, the majority of which was held within Aviva Group Holdings Limited at the 2015 year end, the Group also has access to unutilised committed credit facilities of 1.7 billion provided by various highly rated international banks.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 311 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 311
