IFRS Financial statements G Contingent liabilities Details of the Companys contingent liabilities are given in the Group consolidated financial statements, note 52.
H Risk management Risk management in the context of the Group is considered in the Group consolidated financial statements, note 57.
The business of the Company is managing its investments in subsidiary and joint venture operations.
Its risks are considered to be the same as those in the operations themselves and full details of the major risks and the Groups approach to managing these are given in the Group consolidated financial statements, note 57.
Such investments are held by the Company at fair value in accordance with accounting policy D. The fair values of the subsidiaries and joint ventures are estimated using applicable valuation models, underpinned by the Companys market capitalisation.
This uses the Companys closing share price at year end.
Given that the key input into the valuation model is based on an observable current share price, and therefore sensitive to movements in that price, the valuation process is not sensitive to non-observable market assumptions.
Financial assets, other than investments in subsidiaries and the joint venture, largely consist of amounts due from subsidiaries.
As at the balance sheet date, these receivable amounts were neither past due nor impaired.
Financial liabilities owed by the Company as at the balance sheet date are largely in respect of borrowings details of which are provided in note F and the Group consolidated financial statements, note 49 and loans owed to subsidiaries.
Loans owed to subsidiaries were within agreed credit terms as at the balance sheet date.
Interest rate risk Loans to and from subsidiaries are at either fixed or floating rates of interest, with the latter being exposed to fluctuations in these rates.
The choice of rates is designed to match the characteristics of financial investments which are also exposed to interest rate fluctuations held in both the Company and the relevant subsidiary, to mitigate as far as possible each companys net exposure.
All the Companys long-term external borrowings are at fixed rates of interest and are therefore not exposed to changes in these rates.
However, for short-term commercial paper, the Company is affected by changes in these rates to the extent the redemption of these borrowings is funded by the issuance of new commercial paper or other borrowings.
Further details of the Companys borrowings are provided in note F and the Group consolidated financial statements, note 49.
The effect of a 100 basis point increase decrease in interest rates on floating rate loans due to and from subsidiaries and on refinancing short-term commercial paper as it matures would be a decrease increase in profit before tax of 106 million 2014: decrease increase of 100 million.
The net asset value of the Companys financial resources is not materially affected by fluctuations in interest rates.
Currency risk The Companys direct subsidiaries are exposed to foreign currency risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates during the course of providing insurance and asset management services around the world.
The exposure of the subsidiaries to currency risk is considered from a Group perspective in the Group consolidated financial statements, note 57.
The Company faces exposure to foreign currency risk through some of its borrowings which are denominated in euro.
However, most of these borrowings have been on-lent to a subsidiary which holds investments in euro, generating the net investment hedge described in the Group consolidated financial statements, note 58 a.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk of not being able to make payments as they become due because there are insufficient assets in cash form.
The Companys main sources of liquidity are liquid assets held within the Company and its subsidiaries Aviva Group Holdings Limited AGH and Friends Life Holdings plc, and dividends received from the Groups insurance and asset management businesses.
Sources of liquidity in normal markets also includes a variety of short and long-term instruments including commercial papers and medium and long-term debt.
In addition to the existing liquid resources and expected inflows, the Company maintains significant undrawn committed borrowing facilities 1,650 million from a range of leading international banks to further mitigate this risk.
Maturity analysis of external borrowings and amounts due to and by subsidiaries are provided in notes F and I respectively.
I Related party transactions The Company receives dividend and interest income from subsidiaries and pays interest and fee expense to those subsidiaries in the normal course of business.
These activities are reflected in the table below.
Loans to and from subsidiaries are made on normal arms-length commercial terms.
The maturity analysis of the related party loans is as follows: Loans owed by subsidiaries 2015 2014 Maturity analysis m m Within 1 year 388 1-5 years 369 1,136 Over 5 years 184 194 Total 553 1,718 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 277 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 277
