The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Riskreview  This section describes the material risks which senior management is currently focused on and believe could cause the Groups future results of operations, financial condition and prospects to differ materially from current expectations.
barclays annualreport  I 119 Risk review  Material existing and emerging risks to the Groups future performance This section describes the material risks to which senior management housepricegrowth.
Intheretailsector,  pays particular attention, which they believe could cause the future  results of the Groups operations, financial condition and prospects .
Emergingmarket , whichhascontinuedto to differ materially from current expectations.
These expectations include the ability to pay dividends, maintain appropriate levels of .
  capital and meet capital and leverage ratio targets, and achieve stated commitments as outlined in the Strategic Report.
risks relating to the Group that are not currently known, or that are currently deemed immaterial, may individually or cumulatively have b Interest rate rises, including as a result of slowing of monetary stimulus, could impact consumer debt affordability and corporate the potential to materially affect the future results of the Groups operations, financial condition and prospects.
profitability  :i developedmarkets, , theUKandtheUS,  , albeit PrincipalRisk:andii  .
Material existing and emerging risks by  emergingeconomies,  Principal Risk  fundamentals.
Credit risk The financial condition of the Groups customers, clients and ii Specific sectors counterparties, including governments and other financial  institutions, could adversely affect the Group.
Inaddition, theGroupmayincur a UK property   ,  PCBcreditexposure,  ,  .
, fuelledbyforeign investment, strongbuytolet BTL  i Deterioration in political and economic environment supply, :average    earnings.
Afallinhouseprices,  uncertainties, : EastoftheUK,   LGD ratesincrease.
Potentiallosseswould a Specific regions  LTV segments.
 country,  b Natural Resources emerging risk ,   .
, inparticularChina, pricesforkeymineral exports, adownturnintourism,  120 I  home.
barclays annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information c Large single name losses thelongterm,  .
Inaddition,  Funding risk ,  The ability of the Group to achieve its business plans may be ,   adversely impacted if it does not effectively manage its capital including leverage, liquidity and other regulatory requirements.
:ii beingunabletomeetits :iii  d Leverage Finance underwriting :andiv   .
The i Inability to maintain appropriate prudential ratios   underwritingperiod.
increditratings: dividendtargets:and  Market risk .
Whilethe , furtherchangesto The Groups financial position may be adversely affected by changes , whetherasaresultof i further in both the level and volatility of prices leading to lower revenues, or  forexample, implementation reduced capital:  BIS regulatoryupdate recommendations, ii  i Concerns of major unexpected changes in monetary policy and  EBA, iii changestoUK quantitative easing programmes, foreign exchange movements or , iv , slowdown in emerging market economies spilling over to global or v  markets emerging risk Committee FPC recommendations.
Suchchanges, eitherindividually  and orinaggregate,  markets, ,  .
Overall,  , , whenimplemented, to   productsandservices, including,  .
  , leadto baseratemovements, e. g. currentaccounts.
  ii Inability to manage liquidity and funding risk effectively , exposingittocurrency  translationrisk.
 , althoughsolvent, onlybeingable ii Adverse movements in the pension fund .
, inaccordancewith  IAS19, isderivedfromthe iii Credit rating changes and the impact on funding costs   , its ratings   creditspreads.
Therefore,    andprocedures, capitalstrength, earnings, funding, liquidity, accounting persistentlowrateand .
barclays annualreport  I 121 Risk review  Material existing and emerging risks to the Groups future performance Furthermore,  ii Infrastructure and technology resilience ,  .
  iv Adverse changes in foreign exchange rates on capital ratios obligations.
result,  currencymovements,  iii Ability to hire and retain appropriately qualified employees   .
  Operational risk   The operational risk profile of the Group may change as a result of otherindustries.
Similarly,  human factors, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, .
inprocesses, controlsorprocedures    :,  byanexternalparty,  , orwhohavethe ,  , couldnegatively  ,  technology,  employeeengagement.
 , forexample, iv Losses due to additional tax charges naturaldisasters, actsofterrorism,  , failures,  ,  customersand .
This  , , theGroupsprocesses, controls,  relevanttaxlaw,  address, ,   riskofloss.
Suchcharges,  , , reputational i Cyber attacks emerging risk , .
v Critical accounting estimates and judgements   ,  theuseofestimates.
  judgementexercised, , theGroup, itsclients, counterparties, orcustomers, orcausedisruption ,  .
 , inability , theGroupholdsaUK , customerdetriment, regulatory  censureandpenalty, .
barclays annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information reect, amongotherthings,  operations:publicreprimands::a :   and .
vii Risks arising from regulation of the financial services industry   , lossesgivendefault, arangeof  , , business, financialperformance, .
  including, in vi Legal, competition and regulatory matters particular, theUKandtheUS.
Whereclients,  b Changes in prudential requirements, including changes to CRD IV ,  .
 ,    i , counterparty Groupsresults, , creditrisk, :and ii theBCBS dependingon, amongotherthings,   fromthematter s  modelsincertainareas forexample, removingtheAdvanced fortheperiod.
However, itislikelythatin and ,   expense, , andanysuchmatters Groupscapital, leverage,  :substantialmonetary .
 damagesand orfines:: , suchas: :additionallitigation:criminal ,  : weightedassets: includingwithregard :  : : :and or :suspensionof .
barclays annualreport  I 123 Risk review  Material existing and emerging risks to the Groups future performance c Market infrastructure reforms  whether  mayimpact  , including, inparticular, Europepursuant capital, ,  theGroup, forexample, , lost  EMIR andintheUS   .
 alreadycomeintoforce,  viii Regulatory action in the event of a bank failure  BRRD contains effectiveinstages,   theMarketsin , manyofwhich   inEurope.
,  requirements,  TheUKBankingAct2009, asamended theBankingAct providesfora derivativesmarkets,  regimetoallowtheBoE or, , HMTreasury to  .
Inaddition, asaresultofthese , andgivesitthe increasedcosts,   e. g. equity.
thebail-inpower,   d Recovery and resolution planning   .
FederalReserveSystem FederalReserve andtheFederalDeposit InsuranceCorporation FDIC collectively, theAgencies under Conduct risk provisionsoftheDFA.
 US,  Barclays is committed to Group-wide changes to business practices,  governance and mindset and behaviours so that good customer  outcomes and protecting market integrity are integral to the way stringentcapital, leverage, , orrestrictionson Barclays operates.
Improving our reputation will demonstrate to growth, .
customers that in Barclays they have a partner they can trust.
Conduct risk is the risk that detriment is caused to the Groups Additionally, , customers, clients, counterparties or the Group itself because of  inappropriate judgement in the execution of our business activities.
lossabsorbingcapital TLAC  Company IHC , andincreased     QFCproposal thatmay, dependingonfinal .
i Organisational change InSouthAfrica,    :i complexity  inbusinesspractice, processesandsystems:ii challengesfacedin principles.
 BAGL anditsprimary productsuitability, :iii ,  :and, iv executionstrategy, includingthe theyareadopted.
barclays annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information , therisktoBarclays  reputationwillremain.
following:  iii Market integrity  , includingthose , fundingandliquidity .
 capital,  iv Financial crime ,  TheGroup, , isexposedtotherisks ,  , terroristfinancing, briberyand  .
 Anyone, orcombination,     BankingReform  Pensions , after1January2026, ring .
, theGroupwillneed  Material existing and emerging risks potentially RetirementFund UKRF from2026,  impacting more than one Principal Risk .
The  i Structural reform emerging risk Trustee,   BankingReform Act2013 theUKBanking ReformAct ,    ,     mayconduct so-calledringfencing.
  attheEuropeanlevel,   alongsideothergroup , ifcertain  conditionsaremet,      HoldingCompany  .
Theregulationis   includingthescopeof  IHC toholdtheGroupsUS     Ministers, .
Specifically,  ,  , itisproposedthat: Groupsprofitability, operatingexibility,   capitalandfunding, returnonequity, , credit ringfencedbank RFB.
 BarclaysBankPLC BBPLC , institutional ii Business conditions, general economy and geopolitical issues  The Groups performance could be adversely affected in relation to : more than one Principal Risk by a weak or deteriorating global  economy or political instability.
These factors may also occur in one businesses or more of the Groups main countries of operation.
barclays annualreport  I 125 Risk review  Material existing and emerging risks to the Groups future performance , FortheGroup,  , forexample: i , orany ,  ,  : ii  Groupsperformance.
impairment:and iii  , withlowsingledigit ,   counterparties.
, lowercommodityprices  iii Business change execution emerging risk .
