The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Riskreview Riskmanagement An overview of Barclays approach to risk management Page Barclays risk management strategy Introduction 128  128 Governancestructure 128  130 PrincipalandKeyrisks 131 Credit risk management Overview 132  132  133 Creditriskmitigation 133 Market risk management Overview 134  134  135 Funding and capital risk management Overview 136  136  136 Liquidity risk management Overview 138  138  138 Operational risk management Overview 139  139  140 Conduct risk management Overview 141  141  141  .
barclays annualreport  I 127 Risk review Riskmanagement Barclays risk management strategy A more comprehensive overview, together with more specific information on Group policies, can be found in Barclays PLC 2015 Pillar 3 Report Evaluate or at home.
Respond Monitor Risk management strategy  .
: ERMF, , tools,   , both understood,  top-downorbottom-up , employeesor  community.
, , Evaluate, Respond , everyday, ineverythingit andMonitor theE-R-Mprocess,  does.
:ii stoptheexisting activity :oriii continuetheactivity .
barclays annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Board oversight and flow of risk related information Board Ensures that the Group manages risk effectively and, as part of this duty, approves overall risk appetite for the Group Board Risk Board Audit Board Reputation Board Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Considers and evaluates the Considers the adequacy Reviews managements Reviews remuneration principles Groups financial and operational and effectiveness of Group recommendations on conduct and approach and approves risk profile and risk appetite internal controls and reputational risk remuneration based on encompassing credit, market, risk-adjusted performance funding and operational risks Furthermore, , Executive The Board Audit Committee BAC    systems, , SMR, .
 3. tak  The Board Reputation Committee RepCo     4. , whichthey .
The Board OneoftheBoards  responsibilitiesis The Board Remuneration Committee RemCo  ,  .
barclays corporategovernance The Board Risk Committee BRC    FRC  appetite.
 GFD andthe , maturity ChiefRiskOfficer CRO .
barclays annualreport  I 129 Risk review Riskmanagement Risk governance and assigning responsibilities : ,    .
Second line: oversee and challenge the first line and provide second , consistent,  line risk management activity.
isa:  Third line:provide assurance that the E-R-M process is fit for  purpose, and that it is being carried out as intended.
: , andorganising  secondline :ManagingOperational  orBusinessProcess firstandsecondline : , whilestillpromoting Assurance thirdline.
Thethree ,   managementactivities: theprocessendtoend, anddesigning, operating, testingand .
Performed First line: manage operational and business processes: design, ,  implement, operate, test and remediate controls.
Reporting and control Board Risk Board Audit Board Reputation Committee Committee Committee Financial Risk Treasury Operational Risk Conduct and Reputational Committee Committee Review Forum Risk Committee monitors risk profile with sets policy controls for liquidity reviews aggregate operational risk assesses quality of the application respect to financial risk appetite maturity transformation and profile and monitors individual of the Conduct and Reputational debates and agrees actions on structural interest rate exposure businesses key risk appetite Risk Control Frameworks the financial risk profile and risk monitors the Groups liquidity and reviews and monitors operational recommends risk appetite and strategy across the Group interest rate maturity mismatch risk capital sets policies to ensure consistent considers issues escalated by monitors usage of regulatory overviews risk events risk adherence to that appetite Risk Type Heads and Business and economic capital exposures by way of Risk Control reviews known and emerging Risk Directors oversees the management of Self-Assessments RCSAs reputational and conduct related the Groups capital plan monitors emerging themes risks to consider if action is monitors Group BU risk profile required and control environment proactively considers reputational including assessment of and conduct related issues that key risks arise as a result of business reviews and monitors material activity and from external factors control issues for remediation reviews lessons learnt summaries and recommendations Credit Risk Funding Risk Operational Risk Conduct Risk Market Risk including Reputation Risk 130 I  home.
barclays annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Principal and Key Risks  analysis.
Asat31December2015, :i Credit: ii Market:iii Funding:iv Operational:andv Conduct.
barclays annualreport  I 131 Risk review Riskmanagement Credit risk management identify,  Credit risk , fromthelevelof  The risk of suffering financial loss should   any of the Groups customers, clients or  market counterparties fail to fulfil their .
contractual obligations to the Group.
Overview Organisation and structure , asaPrincipalRisk,   control.
Othersourcesof , therefore, managedona , including:debtsecurities, .
   BCRO who, in turn, reportstotheCRO.
Board oversight and flow of risk related information Organisation and structure Board Risk Committee Financial Risk Committee monitors risk profile with respect to financial risk appetite debates and agrees actions on the financial risk profile and risk strategy across the Group considers issues escalated by Risk Type Heads and Business Risk Directors Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee Retail Credit Risk Committee monitors the wholesale credit risk profile against plan monitors the retail credit risk profile against plan and agrees any required actions and agrees any required actions reviews and challenges the profile of wholesale credit risk reviews impairment performance and coverage ratios considers potential developing wholesale credit risk issues reviews key retail risk issues, model methodologies and coverage monitors risk appetite consumption reviews retail credit risk policies and framework monitors risk appetite consumption 132 I  home.
barclays annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Collateral Roles and responsibilities   thecounterparty, comprising: businesses, : homeloans:  principallywholesale :setting houses, atsandotherdwellings  principallyretail :settingrisk wholesalelending: appetite:: physicalassets, invariousforms , datagathering, quality, storageand :performing otherretaillending:  physicalassets, , and :maintainingrobust   :andreview derivatives: .
agreement e. g. CreditSupportAnnex CSA withcounterparties  ,   : ,   .
, creditriskmanagers , creditinsurance, credit , industryand or  product.
 settlementexposure e. g.  byallowing  oneanother.
barclays annualreport  I 133 Risk review Riskmanagement Market risk management Pension risk Market risk  .
 The risk of a reduction to earnings or capital  investments.
due to volatility of trading book positions or  as a consequence of running a banking book ::orthe balance sheet and liquidity pools.
Inthesecircumstances, theGroupcould  Traded market risk fund.
However, the : , timing  prepaymentrisk: expected,   e. g. in .
  ontheinvestmentof recruitmentrisk: , creditrisk thanexpected,  ,   : operations.
This  e. g. EveryDay Saver  .
Organisation and structure Board Risk Committee Financial Risk Committee monitors risk profile with respect to financial risk appetite debates and agrees actions on the financial risk profile and risk strategy across the Group considers issues escalated by Risk Type Heads and Business Risk Directors Market Risk Committee oversees the management of the Groups market risk profile reviews market risk appetite proposals from the business reviews arising market or regulatory issues reviews state of the implementation of the Key Risk Frameworks in the businesses 134 I  home.
barclays annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Overview of the business market risk control structure Group Market Risk Risk type Traded Non-traded Pension Insurance Interest rate risk Interest rate risk Discount rate risk Underwriting Spread risk Foreign exchange risk Inflation risk Re-insurance and risk transfer Foreign exchange risk Structural interest rate risk Asset value risk Reserving Equity risk Direct interest rate risk Longevity Asset liquidity matching Commodity risk Prepayment risk Member choices Insurance investment management Inflation risk Recruitment risk Traded credit risk Lag risk Basis risk Funding spread risk Inflation risk managed by Investment Bank Personal and Corporate Banking Pension Fund Africa Banking Treasury Barclaycard Trustees and Barclays Africa Banking Africa Banking central functions Barclays Non-Core Barclays Non-Core Treasury... with oversight and challenge provided by Market Risk Committee and... Market Risk Management Forum Africa Market Risk Committee Pension management group Investment Risk Committee in the businesses Treasury Committee Pension Executive Board Underwriting Review Committee Investment Committee Asset and Liability Actuarial Review Committee Conformance reviews New product sign-off process Conformance reviews Organisation and structure Roles and responsibilities  : Bank, Treasury, .
barclays annualreport  I 135 Risk review Riskmanagement Funding and capital risk management Funding risk Capital risk The ability of the Group to achieve its Capital risk is the risk that the Group has business plans may be adversely impacted insufficient capital resources to: if it does not effectively manage its capital   including leverage and liquidity ratios.
 Group Treasury manage funding risk on a   day-to-day basis with the Group Treasury applied Committee acting as the key governance .
Organisation and structure Overview Board Risk Committee Organisation and structure   .
 , atabusinesslevel, atalocal Group Treasury Committee ,  .
Capital planning  throughbothshortterm oneyear andmediumterm threetofive years .
barclays annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Monitoring and managing capital : Primary objectives Core practices Stresstesting:    .
 , but severe stressmanagement plausible, stressedconditions.
barclays annualreport  I 137 Risk review Riskmanagement Funding risk Liquidity TheBoardsetstheLRA, overGroupstresstests, beingthelevelof Liquidity risk  .
TheapprovedLRAis The risk that the Group, although solvent,  .
either does not have sufficient financial resources available to enable it to meet its Liquidity risk management obligations as they fall due, or can secure  .
 such resources only at excessive cost.
 This also results in a firms inability to meet .
is inherent in all banking operations and : can be affected by a wide range of : specific and market-wide events.
Asperthe  ERMF, theKeyRiskOfficer KRO  ,    underwhich  .
Ongoing business Early signs Severe stress Recovery Resolution management Mild stress  Monitoringandreview ActivateContingency Activateappropriate  FundingPlan  canbecarriedoutif Liquiditylimits Managementactions thecapitaland orliquidity necessary, withoutadverse notrequiringbusiness Managementactions  positionoftheGroup  rationalisation withapositiveimpact thepublicfundstoloss onthefranchise 138 I  home.
barclays annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Riskreview Riskmanagement Operational risk management Organisation and structure Operational risk  follows: Any instance where there is a potential or externalsupplier: actual impact to the Group resulting from externalsuppliers inadequate or failed internal processes, financialcrime:, people, systems, or from an external event.
InearlyJanuary 2016,  The impacts to the Group can be financial, Compliance including losses or an unexpected financial financialreporting:  gain, as well as non-financial such as fraud: customer detriment, reputational or losstoothers regulatory consequences.
information:  legal: paymentsprocess: Overview people:, and orperformance reward : structures, and  ,  premisesandsecurity: tomeetbusiness business smalllosses andfromextremeevents largelosses demand and , andinadequate ,   externalthreats .
taxation:  tofinancialpenalties,   nowthePRA to  AMA foroperationalrisk technology  : secure,  underBaselII, .
Themajorityofthe  93%of   capitalrequirements :however, inspecificareas, theBasicIndicator Approach 7% isapplied.
Reporting and control Board Risk Board Audit Committee Committee Operational Risk Review Forum Governance Risk Committee reviews aggregate operational risk profile monitors Group businesses risk profile agrees and monitors businesses operational and monitors individual businesses and control environment including risk appetite key risk appetite assessment of key risks reviews individual key risk types within the reviews and monitors operational risk capital reviews and monitors material control business overviews risk events risk exposures issues for remediation monitors risk profile and control environment by way of RCSAs reviews lessons learnt summaries incl.
assessment monitors emerging themes and recommendations of key risks home.
barclays annualreport  I 139 Risk review Riskmanagement Operational risk management Roles and responsibilities   .
Risk and control self-assessments and key indicators  .
barclays annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Riskreview Riskmanagement Conduct risk management Roles and responsibilities Conduct risk  PRF comprisesanumber  The risk that detriment is caused to customers, riskprofile.
clients, counterparties or the Group because : of inappropriate judgement in the execution vertically,  of our business activities.
  horizontally,  KROs requiredtomonitor Overview  ConductRiskPRF.
Organisation and structure Board Reputation Committee Conduct and Reputation Risk Committee Each business and function reviews and escalates conduct and reputation risks from Business Risk Oversight meeting home.
barclays annualreport  I 141 Risk review Riskmanagement Conduct risk management  anyassociation,  e. g. customers, clients, colleagues, shareholders, regulators, opinion formers .
, forexample:  andcodeofconduct failure realorperceived , or association realorimplied withillegalactivity ,    , projects, countriesor governments , includingbutnot restrictedto, decisionsrelatingto:products inparticularnew products, deliverychannels, promotions advertising, acquisitions, branchrepresentation, sourcing , staff locations,  .
