com 52 Risk management Andrew Pryde Chief risk officer Charting our risks to chart our course Although the art of navigation has evolved significantly over time, from the early explorers using rudimentary instruments and celestial bodies through to the current sophisticated suite of integrated electronic and GPS systems, its purpose is unchanged to travel safely and efficiently.
An important navigation system for an insurance company is the risk management framework, combining a number of elements to provide a thorough view of our course.
For example: like the use of radar, the emerging and strategic risk review looks over the horizon to identify risks that may impact the course of the company in future years: like the use of binoculars, the biannual risk reviews seek to identify those risks that are too close for radar to provide meaningful information, but which are still far away: like the use of ones own eye, the consolidated assurance report provides detailed information of the immediate surroundings so that precise manoeuvres can be made: and like the use of hindsight, reviewing risk incidents allows us to learn from our mistakes and use experience to improve future navigation.
In todays turbulent world, perhaps being able to identify, understand and adapt to risks that arise along the journey is just as important as knowing our destination.
This years journey As at 31 December 2015, all entities in the Beazley group are operating within risk appetite as set by the board.
There have been no new risk areas identified and no major shifts in existing risks.
In addition, the control environment has not identified any significant failings or weaknesses in key processes.
Risk management has undertaken two key risk profile reviews.
The first was to review the design and operation of the underwriting standards, particularly in soft market conditions.
Whilst the conclusion was that the underwriting standards remain appropriately designed, we have increased the focus on oversight of policy wordings which can become a target in a soft market and monitoring more closely the 28 new underwriters who have joined Beazley in 2015.
The second risk profile review was an annual review of Beazleys cyber exposure with the aim of improving our understanding of how an aggregation of claims across a number of policies could be triggered by a single cause or event.
We used external technical expertise to benefit from the latest thinking on what is possible, which has led to the development of five new realistic disaster scenarios that will be monitored.
We have also developed a cyber risk budget which the new scenarios will be compared against to assist the board in overseeing the growth of our cyber premium.
Risk appetite sets the navigational parameters and so supports board discussion.
For example, because asset risk appetite is based on how much earnings volatility the board is prepared to tolerate, it is set with consideration of the insurance conditions in mind rather than the asset environment alone.
This tempers the amount of asset risk taken in soft insurance market conditions when the initial reaction may be to take on more asset risk to make up for an expectation of reduced insurance profits.
We have also complemented our quantitative risk appetite measures by developing qualitative statements which guide on what type of activity would be outside risk appetite using relevant language for that part of the business.
This has helped to improve the understanding across the business of how the board expects the company to operate.
In 2015, we reviewed the way we manage conduct risk.
Conduct risk describes Beazleys behaviour that aims to provide appropriate products to the right group of consumers that achieve fair outcomes.
Beazleys approach starts with culture.
The Professional and Integrity elements of our PIED values and the Honourable and Deliver elements of Being Beazley mean we consider and understand the needs of our customers and form an important cultural base to getting this right.
This is supported by product specific activity dependent on the type of customer.
From a risk management perspective, we facilitated the development of the conduct objective, the conduct risk appetite and the standards required to remain within this risk appetite.
com Annual report 2015 53 We are able to extract conduct related controls from the risk register to provide the board with assurance that the expected behaviours towards customers are being demonstrated.
Risk management facilitated the discussion of emerging and strategic risks at the board strategy day in May 2015.
The discussion focused on four strategic risks: a deterioration of relationships between some of the G20 countries, failure to harness the benefit of technological advances, the commoditisation of specialist insurance products and the operational consequences if premium income were to reduce materially.
The quarterly Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA report captures and explains the current and prospective risks and associated capital requirements.
Since 2010, the board has received 20 regular quarterly ORSAs and three ad hoc transactional ORSAs and these reports have proved to be one of the key benefits arising from the introduction of the Solvency II regime.
There is widespread belief that the approach to remuneration is a key determinant of a businesss success or failure.
As such, this is now the fifth year that the chief risk officer has provided a detailed report to the remuneration committee to provide assurance that the design of the remuneration structure drives the intended behaviours not only over the next year but also over the next three to five years.
Members of the risk management team have visited Beazley offices in the US, Europe, Asia and Australia to identify how we can improve what we do and to observe how consistently the Beazley culture ensures our staff do the right thing.
Turning to capital, we have continued to make minor changes to the internal model during 2015, the last year before the Solvency II regime goes live.
Some changes have been in response to regulatory review to ensure that the internal model completely meets all the requirements.
Other changes have been made to ensure that the internal model remains aligned to Beazleys risk profile.
We have observed that there is increasing interest across the market in utilising a drivers of risk approach, which is used by Beazley to describe how risks interact rather than using a statistical correlation matrices approach.
Since we implemented such an approach in 2004, we have found that a drivers of risk approach leads to a more informed discussion given the more intuitive approach to aggregating risk.
Our focus in 2015 has been on reviewing the universe of risk drivers to ensure that all appropriate drivers have been included in the model and that the emergence of future drivers will be incorporated as necessary.
The board has received a detailed validation report to provide assurance that the model design and its output are appropriate.
This report, coupled with a programme of regular and tailored director briefings called KRAM, ensure that the internal model is widely understood and actively used.
Beazley received approval for its Solvency II internal model from the Central Bank of Ireland in December 2015.
This ensures that Beazleys capital efficiency is maintained as the company will continue to use a model that more accurately reflects its risk profile to set capital requirements, rather than having to use the standard formula which typically generates higher capital requirements.
Preparing for the future Beazleys current risk management framework has been successfully operating over the last five years.
Although we have continued to enhance the framework during that period, we have undertaken a detailed review in the second half of 2015 of the operation of the risk register and associated reporting.
This review has made use of our experiences of operating the framework during that period and has considered how market best practice has developed.
We will be implementing changes in the first half of 2016 with the aim of ensuring that the next evolution of the risk management framework is up to the challenge of helping Beazley navigate the next five years.
Risk management philosophy Beazleys risk management philosophy is to balance the risks the business takes on with the associated cost of controlling these risks, whilst also operating within the risk appetite agreed by the board.
In addition, our risk management processes are designed to continuously monitor our risk profile against risk appetite and to exploit opportunities as they arise.
com 54 Risk management continued Risk management strategy The Beazley plc board has delegated executive oversight of the risk management department to the executive committee, which in turn has delegated immediate oversight to the risk and regulatory committee.
The Beazley plc board has also delegated oversight of the risk management framework to the audit and risk committee and the primary regulated subsidiary boards have established a board risk committee.
Clear roles, responsibilities and accountabilities are in place for the management of risks and controls, and all employees are aware of the role they play in all aspects of the risk management process, from identifying sources of risk to their part in the control environment.
The impact of each risk is recorded in the risk register on a 1:10 likelihood of that risk manifesting in the next 12 months.
A risk owner has been assigned responsibility for each risk, and it is the responsibility of that individual to periodically assess the impact of the risk and to ensure appropriate risk mitigation procedures are in place.
External factors facing the business and the internal controls in place are routinely reassessed and changes are made when necessary.
On an annual basis, the board agrees the risk appetite for each risk event and this is documented in the risk framework document.
The residual financial impact is managed in a number of ways, including: mitigating the impact of the risk through the application of controls: transferring or sharing risk through outsourcing and purchasing insurance and reinsurance: and tolerating risk in line with the risk appetite.
In addition, the following risk management principles have been adopted: risk management is a part of the wider governance environment: techniques employed are fit for purpose and proportionate to the business: it is a core capability for all employees: risk management is embedded in day-to-day activities: there is a culture of risk awareness, in which risks are identified, assessed and managed: risk management processes are robust and supported by verifiable management information: and risk management information and reporting is timely, clear, accurate and appropriately escalated.
Risk management framework Beazley has adopted the three lines of defence framework: namely business risk management, the risk management function and the internal audit function.
Within business risk management, there are two defined risk and control roles: risk owner and control reporter.
Each risk event is owned by the risk owner who is a senior member of staff.
Risk owners, supported by the risk management team, formally perform a risk assessment twice a year, including an assessment of heightened and emerging risks.
Business risk management Risk management Internal audit Risk ownership Risk oversight Risk assurance Identifies risk Are risks being identified?
Independently tests control design Assesses risk Are controls operating effectively?
Independently tests control operation Mitigates risk Are controls being signed off?
Reports to committees and board Monitors risk Reports to committees and board Records status Remediates when required The risk management framework comprises a number of risk management components, which when added together describe how risk is managed on a day to day basis.
The framework includes a risk register that captures the risk universe 55 risk events grouped into eight risk categories: insurance, market, credit, liquidity, operational, regulatory and legal, group and strategic, the risk appetite set by the Beazley plc board, and the control environment that is operated by the business to remain within the risk appetite.
The following diagram illustrates the components of the risk management framework.
com Annual report 2015 55 Risk appetite Risk assessment Stress and scenario framework Risk profiles Strategic and emerging risk annual biannual annual ad hoc annual Control assessment Risk register monthly Key risk indicators Control performance Internal model quarterly aggregation monthly Committees Risk incidents Consolidated assurance 1st line: Underwriting, Investment, reporting report Operations, Executive committees 2nd line: Risk and regulatory, Risk committees 3rd line: Audit committees Boards In summary, the board identifies risk, assesses risk and sets risk appetite.
The business then implements a control environment which describes how the business should operate to stay within risk appetite.
Risk management then reports to the board on how well the business is operating using a consolidated assurance report.
For each risk, the consolidated assurance report brings together a view of how successfully the business is managing risk, qualitative commentary from the assurance function and whether there have been any events that we can learn from risk incidents.
Finally, the framework is continually improved, through the consideration of stress and scenario testing, themed reviews using risk profiles and an assessment of strategic and emerging risks.
A suite of risk management reports are provided to the boards and committees to assist senior management and board members to discharge their oversight and decision making responsibilities.
The risk reports include the risk appetite statement, the consolidated assurance report, risk profiles, stress and scenario testing, reverse stress testing, an emerging and strategic report, a report to the remuneration committee and the ORSA report.
The internal audit function considers the risk management framework in the development of its audit universe to determine its annual risk-based audit plan.
The plan is based on, among other inputs, the inherent and residual risk scores as captured in the risk register.
Finally, a feedback loop operates, with recommendations from the internal audit reviews being assessed by the business and the risk management function for inclusion in the risk register as appropriate.
Viability statement The directors have completed a robust assessment of the viability of the group over a three year period.
A period of three future years has been selected to be short enough to be reasonably assessable but long enough to reflect Beazleys risk profile of a portfolio of diversified short-tailed and medium-tailed insurance liabilities.
This three year period also aligns with the length of time over which business underwritten at Lloyds, being the majority our insurance business, is managed.
The board has performed an annual risk assessment and the key risks to the group in the future are summarised on pages 56 and 57.
The risks and associated capital requirements have been brought together into a five year plan.
The main assumption is that the current market conditions will prevail, over which the outcomes of the boards strategic initiatives are overlaid.
In addition, the board has reviewed the sensitivity of key assumptions and has performed scenario testing to understand the impact on cashflows of the key risks of a major natural catastrophe and or a systemic mispricing of the medium-tailed liability classes.
The chief risk officer provides a quarterly ORSA report to the board summarising the short term and longer term risks to the group and the capital implications.
The directors have concluded, based on this review, that there is a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of assessment.
com 56 Risk management continued The risks to financial performance The board monitors and manages risks grouped into eight Reserve risk: Beazley has a consistent and conservative categories, which cover the universe of risk that could affect reserving philosophy.
However, there is a risk that the Beazley.
There have been no new risk areas identified and no reserves put aside for expected losses turn out to be major shifts in existing risks.
The board considers the following insufficient.
This could be due to any of the three drivers of two risk categories to be the most significant.
The group uses a range of techniques to mitigate this risk including a detailed reserving process Insurance risk which compares, claim by claim, estimates established by Given the nature of Beazleys business, the key risks that the claims team with a top down statistical view developed impact financial performance arise from insurance activities.
A suite of metrics is also used to The main insurance risks can be summarised in the following ensure consistency each year.
categories: Single risk losses: Given the size of policy limits offered Market cycle risk: The risk of systematic mispricing of the on each risk, it is unlikely that the poor performance of one medium tailed specialty lines business which could arise policy will have a material impact on the groups financial due to a change in the US tort environment, changes to performance.
the supply and demand of capital, and companies using incomplete data to make decisions.
This risk would affect Strategic risk multiple classes within the specialty lines division across Alongside these insurance risks, the success of the group a number of underwriting years.
The group uses a range depends on the execution of an appropriate strategy.
of techniques to mitigate this risk including sophisticated The main strategic risks can be summarised as follows: pricing tools, analysis of macro trends, analysis of claim Strategic decisions: The groups performance would be frequency and the expertise of our experienced affected in the event of making strategic decisions that underwriters and claims managers.
The group mitigates this risk through the Natural catastrophe risk: The risk of one large event caused combination of recommendations and challenge from by nature affecting a number of policies and therefore giving non-executive directors, debate at the executive committee rise to multiple losses.
Given Beazleys risk profile, this and input from the strategy and performance group a group could be a hurricane, major windstorm or earthquake.
This of approximately 35 senior individuals from across different risk is monitored using exposure management techniques disciplines at Beazley.
to ensure that the risk and reward are appropriate and that Environment: There is a risk that the chosen strategy the exposure is not overly concentrated in one area.
cannot be executed because of the current environmental Non natural catastrophe risk: This risk is similar to natural conditions within which Beazley operates, thereby delaying catastrophe risk except that multiple losses arise from the timing of the strategy.
one event caused by mankind.
Given Beazleys risk profile, Communication: Having the right strategy and environment examples include a coordinated cyber attack, an act of is of little value if it is not communicated internally so that terrorism, an act of war or a political event.
This risk is the whole group is heading in the same direction, or if key monitored using exposure management techniques to external stakeholders are not aware of Beazleys progress ensure that the risk and reward are appropriate and that against its strategy.
the exposure is not overly concentrated in one area.
com Annual report 2015 57 Senior management performance: There is a risk that Other risks senior management is overstretched or does not perform, The remaining six risk categories monitored by the board are: which would have a detrimental impact on the groups Market asset risk: This is the risk that the value of performance.
The performance of the senior management investments is adversely impacted by movements in team is monitored by the CEO and talent management team interest rates, exchange rates, default rates or external and overseen by the nomination committee.
This risk is monitored by the investment Reputation: Although reputational risk is a consequential committee.
risk, i. e. it emerges upon the occurrence of another risk Operational risk: This risk is the failure of people, processes manifesting, it has the potential to have a significant and systems or the impact of an external event on Beazleys impact on an organisation.
Beazley expects its staff to act operations, and is monitored by the operations committee.
honourably one of seven ingredients of Being Beazley Credit risk: Beazley has credit risk to its reinsurers, brokers by doing the right thing.
and coverholders of which the reinsurance asset is the Flight risk: There is a risk that Beazley is unable to deliver largest.
The underwriting committee monitors this risk.
its strategy due to the loss of key personnel.
Beazley has Regulatory and legal risk: This is the risk that Beazley does controls in place to identify and monitor this risk, for not operate in line with the relevant regulatory framework in example, through succession planning.
the territories where it operates.
Of the eight risk categories, Crisis management: This is the risk caused by the the board has the lowest tolerance for this risk.
destabilising effect of the group having to deal with a crisis Liquidity risk: This is the risk that the group does not have and is mitigated by having a detailed crisis management sufficient liquid funds following a catastrophic event.
investment committee monitors this risk which, given Corporate transaction: There is a risk that Beazley the nature of the asset portfolio, is currently small.
undertakes a corporate transaction which does not return Group risk: The structure of the Beazley group is not complex the expected value to shareholders.
This risk is mitigated and so the main group risk is that one group entity operates through the due diligence performed, the financial structure to the detriment of another group entity or entities.
Although of transactions and the implementation activity.
this risk is currently small, the Beazley plc board monitors this risk through the reports it receives from each entity.
Under the environmental risk heading, the board monitors five categories of emerging and strategic risk on a quarterly basis, namely: socio-political risk, distribution, market conditions, talent and regulation.
