Strategic report Strategy Bank risk management Overview The banking business is the principal driver of the Groups revenue and operates in the complex financial services sector its risk management and internal control framework is fundamental to that of the Group.
The BGEO Board, supported by our The Banks risk management system of and the Banks compliance with those BGEO Audit and Risk Committees is based on the principle of continually procedures.
The Banks Internal Audit and senior management, is ultimately assessing risk throughout the life of any Department discusses the results of all responsible for the Groups risk operation and includes such stages as: assessments with management, and management and internal controls.
reports its findings and recommendations risk identification: to the Banks Audit Committee.
Formal policies and procedures have quality and quantity assessment been developed at the BGEO level, with of a particular risk: The Banks Internal Audit Department is the help of senior management, which determination of an acceptable risk independent of the Banks Management explain the way in which risks need to level: Board.
The Head of the Banks Internal be systematically identified, assessed, placement of authority limits and Audit Department is appointed by the quantified, managed and monitored.
creation of reserves: Banks Supervisory Board and reports use of collateral: directly to the Banks Audit Committee.
Clearly delegated authority levels and ongoing monitoring and control The Banks Internal Audit Department reporting lines have been established allowing efficient adjustments in has 13 employees.
The Banks Internal and comprehensive reporting forms an case of any negative changes in the Audit Department audits all of the Banks integral part of the BGEO risk management conditions on which the preliminary subsidiaries, apart from BNB, which framework and internal control processes.
risk assessment was made: and has its own internal audit department.
analysis of efficiency of the Each business participates in the risk risk management system.
As part of its auditing procedures, management process by identifying the the Banks Internal Audit Department key risks applicable to its business.
Bank risk management bodies is responsible for the following: The principal risk management bodies A detailed description of the BGEO of the Bank are the: Supervisory Board, identifying and assessing potential risk management control framework Audit Committee, Management Board, risks regarding the Banks operations: can be found on pages 46 to 47 of Risk Committee, Internal Audit, Treasury reviewing the adequacy of the the Strategic Report.
Committee, Credit Committee, Asset existing controls established in and Liability Management Committee order to ensure compliance with the The work undertaken by the Banks the ALCO, Compliance and the Banks policies, plans, procedures risk management bodies feeds back Banks Legal Department.
Each of the and business objectives, as well as directly to BGEO and certain banking Supervisory Board, Audit Committee to current legislation and regulation related risks have been identified and Risk Committee perform similar and professional norms and ethics: in the Groups Principal Risks and roles as the BGEO Board, BGEO developing internal auditing Uncertainties, which can be found on Audit Committee and BGEO Risk standards and methodologies: pages 48 to 51 of the Strategic Report.
Committee, but on the Bank level.
carrying out planned and random inspections of the Banks Given the significance of the banking Management Board.
The Management branches and subdivisions and business, the risk management and Board has overall responsibility for auditing its subsidiaries: internal control framework in place at the Banks asset, liability and risk analysing the quality of the the Bank is described in this section.
management activities, policies and Banks products: procedures.
In order to effectively reviewing the reliability of the implement the risk management system, Banks information technology The role of the Bank in the overall risk the Management Board delegates systems in accordance with a management structure individual risk management functions predetermined schedule: Management of risk is fundamental to to each of the various decision-making assessing the reliability and the banking business and is an essential and execution bodies within the Bank.
security of financial information: element of the Groups operations.
monitoring the Banks internal The main risks inherent in the Banks Internal Audit Department.
The controls and reporting procedures: operations are credit risk, liquidity risk, Internal Audit Department is responsible participating in external audits market risk including currency and for the annual audit of the Banks risk and inspections by the NBG: foreign exchange rate risks, operational management, internal control and making recommendations to risk and legal risk.
The following is a corporate governance processes, management and the Audit Committee description of the Banks risk management with the aim of reducing the levels of on the basis of external and internal policies and procedures in respect to operational and other risks, auditing the audits to improve internal controls: those risks.
Business risks such as Banks internal control systems, and monitoring the compliance of the changes in the environment, technology detecting any infringements or errors on Bank with the NBG regulations: and and industry are monitored through the the part of the Banks departments and monitoring the implementation of Groups strategic planning process.
It examines both the adequacy auditors recommendations.
52 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Risk management bodies of Bank of Georgia Risk Committee Audit Committee Supervisory Board of Bank of Georgia Internal Audit Asset and Liability Management Credit Committee Management Board Committee Quantitive risk Credit risk Operational risk Anti-money Treasury Legal management and management management laundering risk analytics Treasury.
Treasury is responsible for Committee ALCO.
The Credit Committee in the Banks overall exposure to a managing the Banks assets and liabilities for retail loans comprises four tiers of borrower up to US$ 100,000.
The third and its overall financial structure and is subcommittees.
For risk management tier Micro and SME Credit Committee also primarily responsible for managing purposes, investment management loans approves loans resulting in the Banks funding and liquidity risks of the Bank.
are classified as retail loans.
The Credit overall exposure to a borrower in the range Committee for corporate loans comprises of US$ 100,000 to US$ 1,200,000.
The Bank has three three tiers of subcommittees.
Participation Committee is chaired by the Risk Manager, credit committees together, the Credit of the CEO is required for exposures with mandatory participation from either Committees, each one supervising and exceeding US$ 8.0 million.
All exposures the Head of the Credit Risk Analysis Unit or managing the Banks credit risks in respect to single group borrowers over US$ 25.0 the Head of the Credit Risk Management of retail and investment management million require approval by the Supervisory Department or his or her deputy for loans, corporate loans and counterparty Board.
Lower tier subcommittees meet exposures exceeding US$ 500,000. loans.
These three committees are: on a daily basis, whereas higher tier ones the Retail Banking Committee, the typically meet three to four times a week.
Corporate Banking Credit Committee Each of the subcommittees of the Credit and the Financial and Governmental Committees makes its decisions by a Counterparty Risk Management majority vote of its respective members.
Committee FGCRMC, established in April 2014.
FGCRMC manages, monitors Furthermore, the Credit Committee for and controls counterparty risk of financial Micro and SME loans comprises three and governmental counterparties of tiers of subcommittees, and falls under Bank of Georgia.
Each Credit Committee the Credit Committee for retail loans.
The approves individual loan transactions.
first tier Micro and SME Credit Committee is chaired by the Head of the Group of Each Credit Committee is comprised of the Micro and SME Lending Department tiers of subcommittees.
The FGCRMC and approves loans resulting in the Banks comprises two tiers of subcommittees.
overall exposure to a borrower of up to The Committee consists of five members US$ 15,000.
A loan officer, who submits Chief Risk Officer, Chief Financial a loan application project to the Credit Officer, Head of Quantitative Risk Committee, does not have right to vote Management, Head of Treasury and for the approval of the loan.
The second Head of Trade Finance, and a majority tier Micro and SME Credit Committee is of votes is enough for approval.
If the chaired by the Micro and SME Department potential exposure exceeds US$ 10.0 representative Head of the Micro and SME million, then the decision is deferred Department, Deputy Head of department, to the Asset and Liability Management coordinator and approves loans resulting Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 53 Strategic report Strategy Bank risk management continued Credit Committee tiers of subcommittees for Retail and Corporate Banking loans Subcommittee Chair Approval limit for Corporate Banking loans US$ Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant Credit Risk Management Less than US$ 500,000 for existing and new borrowers Tier II Head of the Credit Risk Analysis unit Between US$ 500,000 and US$ 1.5 million for existing and new borrowers Tier III CEO CRO Greater than US$ 1.5 million for existing and new borrowers Subcommittee Chair Approval limit for Retail Banking loans US$ Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant Credit Risk Management Less than US$ 150,000 Tier II Deputy Head of Credit Risk Management department Between US$ 150,000 and US$ 300,000 for retail loans Tier III Director of the Credit Risk Management department Between US$ 300,000 and US$ 2.0 million Tier IV CEO CRO Greater than US$ 2.0 million limits with respect to overnight in accordance with NBG regulations and The Problem Assets Committee is and intraday positions: pronouncements.
On 30 June 2014, the chaired by one of the following: 1st establishes stop-loss limits for foreign NBG introduced new regulation aimed level the Head of the Problem Loan currency operations and securities: at replacing its old regulation, which was Management Department: 2nd and monitors compliance with the developed independently from international 3rd level the Deputy CEO Chief Risk established risk management models committees and organisations and was Officer.
The Problem Loan Management for foreign exchange risk, interest not based on the Basel Accord.
The new Department manages the Banks rate risk and funding liquidity risk: capital regulation is based on the Basel exposures to problem loans and reports sets ranges of interest rates for Accord 2 3, with material regulatory to the Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer.
different maturities at which the discretions applied by the NBG.
Pillar Bank may place its liquid assets 1 requirements of the new regulation The Litigation Team Committee is chaired and attracts funding: and came into force on 30 June 2014.
The by one of the following: 1st level Deputy reviews different stress tests and period starting 30 June 2014 through Head of the Legal Department Head of capital adequacy models prepared 31 December 2017 was declared as a the Litigation Team: 2nd level Head of the by the Finance Department.
During the transition Legal Department: 3rd level Head of the period the Bank will be required to comply Credit Risk Management Department: 4th level Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer.
This The ALCO is chaired by the CEO and with both old and new capital regulations Committee is responsible to take decisions sits at any time deemed necessary, with of the NBG.
Pillar II of the Basel Accord on the cases which are managed by the decisions made by a majority vote of its 2 3, which entails implementation of Litigation Team and are subject of litigation.
ALCO members include the the Internal Capital Adequacy Process CEO, Deputy CEO Finance, Deputy CEO, ICAAP, is planned to be introduced in The Corporate Recovery Committee is Chief Risk Officer, Deputy CEO Corporate 2016.
The old regulation will be completely chaired by the Deputy CEO Chief Risk and Investment Banking, Deputy CEO, phased out by 1 January 2018.
Officer and is responsible for monitoring Retail Banking, the Head of the Finance all of the Banks exposures to loans that Department, the Head of the Treasury ALCO is the key governing body for the are being managed by the Corporate Department and the Head of the Funding capital adequacy management as well Recovery Department.
The ALCO reviews financial as for the respective risks identification Recovery Department reports to the reports and indices including the Banks and management.
ALCO establishes Deputy CEO Corporate Banking.
limits ratios, balance sheet, statement limits and reviews actual performance of operations, maturity gap, interest rate over those limits for both NBG as well Asset and Liability Management gap, currency gap, foreign exchange risk, as Basel I capital adequacy regulations.
The ALCO is the core interest rate risk and funding liquidity risk The Finance Department is in charge of risk management body that establishes reports, total cash flow analyses, customer regular monthly monitoring and reporting policies and guidelines with respect cash flow analysis, and concentration over NBG and Basel I capital adequacy to capital adequacy, market risks and risk analysis, for the past periods as compliance with original pronouncements respective limits, funding liquidity risk well as future projections and forecasts, as well as with ALCO policies.
Capital and respective limits, interest rate and other financial analysis and further adequacy management is an integral part prepayment risks and respective limits, growth projections on a monthly basis.
of the Banks actual monthly reporting money market general terms and credit as well as the Banks annual and semiexposure limits, designs and implements Regulatory capital requirements in annual budget approval and budget review respective risk management and stress Georgia are set by NBG and are applied processes.
The Finance Department testing models in practice and regularly to the Bank on a stand-alone basis.
NBG prepares NBG and Basel I and Basel monitors compliance with the pre-set risk requires the Bank to maintain a minimum II III capital adequacy actual reports limits, and approves treasury deals with Total Capital Adequacy ratio of 10.5% as well as their forecasts and budgets, non-standard terms.
Specifically, ALCO: of risk-weighted assets and a minimum as well as different stress scenarios for Tier I Capital Adequacy ratio of 8.5% of both regulations, while ALCO and the sets money-market credit risk-weighted assets, both computed Management Board regularly review them, exposure lending limits: based on the Banks stand-alone special identify risks, issue recommendations sets open currency position purpose financial statements prepared or propose amendment measures.
54 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Bodies implementing the risk The Legal Department monitors Legal Department.
The Legal management system all changes in relevant laws and Departments principal purposes are to The Banks risk management system is regulations, and ensures that those ensure that the Banks activities conform implemented by the Finance Department, changes are properly reflected in to applicable legislation and to minimise Quantitative Risk Management and Risk the Banks procedures, instructions, losses from the materialisation of legal Analytics Department, Treasury, Credit manuals, templates and other relevant risks.
The Legal Department is responsible Risk Management, Operational Risk documentation.
It also disseminates for the application and development of Management and Control, Legal, AML information on legislative changes to mechanisms for identifying legal risks in Compliance and Security departments all relevant departments within the the Banks activities in a timely manner, and other departments.
The Legal Department also the investigation of the Banks activities and Analysis Unit reports to the Head of participates in drafting laws and regulatory in order to identify any legal risks, the the Finance Department.
The Finance documents upon request of legislators planning and implementation of all Department and the Treasury Department, and regulators, certain associations necessary actions for the elimination as well as AML Compliance Department and other professional bodies.
of identified legal risks, participation in legal proceedings on behalf of report to the Deputy CEO Finance.
The the Bank where necessary and the Credit Risk Management CB Portfolio The Tax Compliance Unit of the Finance investigation of possibilities for increasing Analysis, Quantitative Risk Management Department focuses on the Banks the effectiveness of the Banks legal and Risk Analytics Department and relationship with the tax authorities and documentation and its implementation Operational Risk Management and Control provides practical advice and monitors in the Banks daily activities.
The Legal departments also Legal Department report tax compliance across the Group.
Department is also responsible for to the Deputy CEO Chief Risk Officer providing legal support to structural units and the Credit Risk Management Retail Each of the foregoing departments is of the Bank and or its subsidiaries.
Banking Portfolio Analysis Department provided with policies and or manuals that reports to the Deputy CEO Retail Banking.
are approved by the Bank Management Anti-Money Laundering AML Board and or the Bank Supervisory Board Compliance.
The Banks AML The Quantitative Risk Management and as required.
The manuals and policies Compliance Department is responsible Risk Analytics Department, in coordination include comprehensive guidance for each for the implementation of the Banks AML with the Treasury, implements the stage of a transaction, including, but not programme including the development of Banks market risk policies by ensuring limited to, manuals outlining asset and AML policies and procedures, transaction compliance with established open liability management policies, foreign monitoring and reporting and employee currency position limits, counterparty exchange operations procedures, fixed training throughout the Bank and its limits, VAR limits on possible losses and income investment guidelines, Retail subsidiaries.
The AML programme the interest rate policy set by the ALCO.
Banking operations procedures, the is based on recommendations and deposit policy and the Credit Policies.
requirements of international organisations The Treasury Department manages including FATF and OFAC, as well as local foreign currency exchange, money Risk measurement and reporting regulations.
The Banks Internal Audit market, securities portfolio and derivatives The Bank measures risk using a method Department makes annual assessments operations and monitors compliance which reflects both the expected loss of the Banks AML systems and provides with the limits set by the ALCO for these likely to arise in normal circumstances independent assurance of internal controls.
The Treasury Department and unexpected losses, which are an is also responsible for management of estimate of the ultimate actual loss based The Bank has adopted risk-based short-term liquidity and treasury cash flow on different forecasting models.
These approach in its policies and procedures and monitors the volumes of cash in the models use probabilities derived from aimed at preventing money laundering Banks ATMs and at its service centres.
historical experience, adjusted from time to and terrorist financing, including a general time to reflect the economic environment.
anti-money laundering policy and rules The Credit Risk Management department The Bank also runs worst case scenarios on counteracting money laundering and manages credit risks with respect to that could arise in the event that extreme financing of individuals and legal entities particular borrowers and assesses overall events, however unlikely, do, in fact, occur.
engaged in terrorist activities, as well as loan portfolio risks.
It is responsible for procedures for reporting to the Financial ensuring compliance with the Banks Monitoring and controlling risks is primarily Monitoring Service of Georgia FMS, Credit Policies, management of the performed based on limits established a legal entity of public law.
The Banks quality of the Banks loan portfolio by the Bank.
These limits reflect the risk-based approach means that it applies and filing and loan administration.
business strategy and market environment enhanced due diligence procedures if it of the Bank as well as the level of risk determines that there is a significant risk The Operational Risk Management that it is willing to accept, with additional that particular customers are engaged in and Control Department identifies and emphasis on selected industries.
The money laundering or financing terrorism.
assesses operational risk categories within Bank also conducts ongoing monitoring the Banks processes and operations.
It and control, allowing efficient adjustments The Bank is obliged to notify the FMS also detects critical risk areas or groups of in case of any unexpected changes in of all transactions that are subject operations with an increased risk level and the conditions on which the preliminary to monitoring.
These reports are develops internal control procedures to risk assessment was made.
In addition, currently filed in electronic form in an address these risks, through among other the Bank monitors and measures offline mode by the AML Compliance things business-process optimisation the overall risk-bearing capacity in Department, the reporting process is schemes, including document circulation, relation to the aggregate risk exposure fully automated, and is supported by information streams, distribution of across all risk types and activities.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 55 Strategic report Strategy Bank risk management continued In order to avoid excessive concentrations The Credit Committees approve The Group maintains a management of risks, the Bank focuses on maintaining individual transactions and the Credit Risk reporting system which requires the a diversified portfolio.
Concentrations Management Department establish their Credit Risk Management, Finance and arise when a number of counterparties, credit risk categories and provisioning Funding Departments to prepare certain or related shareholders, are engaged in rates, which are set as per provisioning reports on a daily and monthly basis.
On similar business activities, or activities methodology.
The Deputy CEO Chief Risk a daily basis, a statement of operations, in the same geographic region, or have Officer and the Credit Risk Management balance sheet and treasury report which similar economic features that would Department reviews the credit quality of includes the Banks open foreign exchange cause their ability to meet contractual the portfolio and sets provisioning rates, positions, cash flows, limits and balances obligations to be similarly affected by in consultation with the Banks CEO and on NOSTRO and LORO correspondent changes in economic, political or other Deputy CEO Finance, on a monthly basis.
accounts and confirmation that there conditions.
Concentrations also involve has been compliance with mandatory combined, aggregate exposures of large The Banks credit quality review process financial ratios must be provided by each and significant credits compared to total provides early identification of possible department.
On a monthly basis, a report on the structural liquidity gap, a report outstanding balance of the respective changes in the creditworthiness of on interest rate risk, monthly financial financial instrument.
Concentrations counterparties, including regular collateral statements, and a Bank Supervisory indicate the relative sensitivity of the Banks revaluations.
Counterparty limits are Board quarterly report containing performance to developments affecting a established by the use of a credit risk analysis of the Banks performance particular industry or geographical location.
classification system, which assigns each against its budget are provided.
Identified concentrations of credit risks counterparty a risk rating.
Risk ratings are controlled and managed accordingly.
are subject to regular revision.
The credit Information compiled from all the quality review process allows the Bank businesses is examined and processed to assess the potential loss as a result Credit risk in order to analyse, control and identify of the risks to which it is exposed and early risks.
This information is presented take corrective action.
The Bank makes Definition: Credit risk is the risk that a and explained to the Management available to its customers guarantees borrower or counterparty will be unable Board, and the head of each business letters of credit which may require that the to pay amounts in full or in part when division.
The report includes aggregate Bank make payments on their behalf.
Credit risk arises mainly in the credit exposure, liquidity ratios and risk payments are collected from customers context of the Banks lending activities.
Senior management based on the terms of the guarantee letter assesses the appropriateness of the of credit.
They expose the Bank to similar Mitigation: The general principles of the allowance for credit losses on a monthly risks to loans and these are mitigated by Banks credit policy are outlined in the basis.
The Bank Management Board the same control processes and policies.
The Credit Policies also and Supervisory Board receive a outline credit risk control and monitoring comprehensive risk report once a quarter Loan approval procedures procedures and the Banks credit risk which is designed to provide all the The procedures for approving loans, management systems.
The Credit necessary information to assess and draw monitoring loan quality and for extending, Policies are reviewed annually or more conclusions on the Banks risk exposure.
refinancing and or restructuring existing frequently if necessary.
As a result of loans are set out in the Banks Credit these reviews, new loan restructuring Specifically tailored risk reports are Policies that are approved by the tools were introduced.
The Bank also uses prepared and distributed for all levels Supervisory Board of the Bank and or the NBGs provisioning methodology in throughout the Bank in order to ensure the Management Board of the Bank.
The order to comply with NBG requirements.
that all business divisions have access Credit Committees approve individual to extensive, relevant and up-to-date transactions.
The Bank evaluates The Bank manages its credit risk by information.
A daily briefing is given Corporate Banking clients on the basis placing limits on the amount of risk to the Bank Management Board and of their financial condition, credit history, accepted with respect to individual all other relevant employees of the business operations, market position, corporate borrowers or groups of Bank on the utilisation of market limits, management, level of shareholder support, related borrowers, liability of insurance proprietary investments and liquidity, proposed business and financing plan companies, types of banking operations plus any other risk developments.
and on the quality of the collateral offered.
and by complying with the exposure The appropriate level of the relevant limits established by the NBG.
The Risk mitigation and excessive risk Credit Committee is responsible for Bank monitors the market value of concentration making the decision for loan approval collateral, requests additional collateral As part of its overall risk management, based on credit memorandum, and in accordance with the underlying the Bank uses derivatives and other where appropriate, Credit Risk Managers agreement, and monitors the market value instruments to manage exposures resulting report.
The loan approval procedures of collateral obtained during its review of from changes in interest rates, foreign for Retail Banking loans depend on the adequacy of the allowance for the loan currencies, credit risks, and exposures the type of retail lending product.
The Bank also mitigates its arising from forward transactions.
While credit risk by obtaining collateral and using these derivatives are intended for hedging, Applications for consumer loans, including other security arrangements.
The exposure they do not qualify for hedge accounting.
credit cards and auto loans, are treated to financial institutions is managed by under the scoring approval procedure.
limits covering on and off-balance sheet The Bank actively uses collateral to reduce While certain loans of up to GEL 6,000 exposures and by settlement limits with its credit risks.
are approved by the scoring system, respect to trading transactions such the appropriate Credit Committee as foreign exchange contracts, etc.
will determine the amount, terms and 56 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information decrease can be related objectively to an conditions of other loans.
Applications Liquidity risk event occurring after the impairment was for mortgage loans by Retail Banking recognised, the previously recognised clients are completed by the mortgage Definition: Liquidity risk is the risk that the impairment loss is reversed by an adjusted loan officer and submitted to the Credit Bank will be unable to meet its payment provision account.
The determination Risk Manager, who evaluates the credit obligations when they fall due under of provisions for impairment losses is risks and determines the amount, terms normal and stress circumstances.
based on an analysis of the assets at and conditions of the loan, which must risk and reflects the amount which, in the be approved at the appropriate Credit Monitoring: Liquidity risk is managed judgement of the Banks management, is Committee level.
In the case of micro through the ALCO-approved liquidity adequate to provide for losses incurred.
financing loans, officers evaluate loan framework.
Treasury manages liquidity on applications, prepare a project analysis a daily basis.
In order to manage liquidity Provisions are made against gross loan and submit proposals to the appropriate risk, it performs daily monitoring of future amounts and accrued interest.
Under Credit Committee which makes the final expected cash flows on customers and the Banks internal loan loss allowance decision.
Credit Committee members have banking operations, which is a part of the equal voting authority and decisions are methodology, which is based upon IFRS assets liabilities management process.
approved by a simple majority of votes.
requirements, the Bank categorises its loan The Finance Department prepares and portfolio into significant and non-significant submits monthly reports to the ALCO.
Significant loans are defined as The ALCO monitors the proportion of The Bank typically requires credit support loans in the amount of US$ 150,000 or maturing funds available to meet deposit or collateral as security for the loans and more and non-significant loans are defined withdrawals and the amounts of intercredit facilities that it grants.
The main as loans less than US$ 150,000.
The bank and other borrowing facilities that forms of credit support are guarantees and Credit Risk Management Department should be in place to cover withdrawals rights to claim amounts on the borrowers makes an individual assessment of all at unexpected levels of demand.
current account with the Bank or other defaulted significant loans.
The main forms of collateral for significant loans are given a collective The liquidity risk management framework corporate lending are charges over real assessment rate.
All loans are divided into models the ability of the Bank to meet its estate properties, equipment, inventory different groups for example mortgage, payment obligations under both normal and trade receivables and the main consumer, microfinancing loans.
conditions and during a crisis situation.
form of collateral for retail lending is a The Bank has developed a model based mortgage over residential property.
In the Since 2004, the Bank, jointly with certain on the Basel III liquidity guidelines.
This case of corporate loans, the Bank usually other Georgian banks and with the Credit approach is designed to ensure that requires a personal guarantee surety Information Group, a provider of credit the funding framework is sufficiently from the borrowers shareholders.
Under information solutions, established JSC flexible to ensure liquidity under a wide the Banks internal guidelines, collateral Credit Info Georgia CIG that serves a range of market conditions.
The liquidity should be provided where it is required centralised credit bureau in Georgia.
Since management framework is reviewed from to cover outstanding liabilities during the 2009, all the participating banks, insurance time to time to ensure it is appropriate to entire duration of a transaction.
As of companies and microfinance organisations the Banks current and planned activities.
31 December 2015, 84.4% of the Groups share and contribute positive and negative Such review encompasses the funding loans to clients were collateralised.
An customer credit information with CIG.
scenarios modelled, the modelling evaluation report of the proposed collateral approach, wholesale funding capacity, is prepared by the Asset Appraisal and As of 1 January 2014, the Bank limit determination and minimum holdings Disposal Department and submitted implemented a new loan loss provisioning of liquid assets.
The liquidity framework to the appropriate Credit Committee, methodology.
The new provisioning is reviewed by the ALCO prior to approval together with the loan application and methodology is based on statistical by the Bank Management Board.
When assessment of Probability of Default evaluating collateral, the Bank discounts PD and Loss Given Default LGD for The Finance Department also the market value of the assets to reflect each of the loan type.
The management undertakes an annual funding review the liquidation value of the collateral.
believes that the new methodology is a that outlines the current funding refinement of the existing methodology strategy for the coming year.
Measurement and will allow better allocation of Cost This review encompasses trends in Exposure and limits are subject to annual of Risk between different products.
The global debt markets, funding alternatives, or more frequent review.
The Banks new methodology was developed in peer analysis, estimation of the Banks compliance with credit risk exposure consultation with Deloitte.
Deloitte was upcoming funding requirements, estimated limits is monitored by the Credit Risk a provider of IT solution fineVare.
market funding capacity and a funding Management Department on a continuous risk analysis.
The annual funding plan basis.
The Bank establishes provisions Non-corporate loans which are overdue is reviewed by the Bank Management for impairment losses of financial assets for more than 150 days are written off Board and approved by the Bank on collective basis and on individual basis automatically, except for mortgage Supervisory Board as part of the annual when there is objective evidence that a loans which, since June 2009, are budget.
The Funding and Treasury financial asset or group of financial assets written-off once overdue for more than Departments also review, from time to is impaired.
The Bank creates provisions 365 days.
Significant loans may be time, different funding options and assess by reference to the particular borrowers written-off following an assessment the refinancing risks of such options.
financial condition and the number of by the Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer days the relevant loan is overdue.
If in and the Credit Risk Management a subsequent period the amount of Department, in consultation with the the impairment loss decreases and the Banks CEO and Deputy CEO, Finance.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 57 Strategic report Strategy Bank risk management continued presented elsewhere.
In addition, the This review encompasses trends in Market risk maturity gap analysis does not reflect the global debt markets, funding alternatives, historical stability of current accounts.
peer analysis, estimation of the Banks Definition: The Bank is exposed to market upcoming funding requirements, estimated risk including currency exchange rate The Banks principal sources of liquidity market funding capacity and a funding risk and interest rate risk, which is the are as follows: risk analysis.
The annual funding plan risk that the fair value or future cash flows is reviewed by the Bank Management of financial instruments will fluctuate due deposits: Board and approved by the Bank to changes in market variables.
Market borrowings from international Supervisory Board as part of the annual risk exposure arises from mismatches credit institutions: budget.
The Funding and Treasury of maturity and currencies between inter-bank deposit agreement: Departments also review, from time to the assets and liabilities, all of which debt issuances: time, different funding options and assess are exposed to market fluctuations.
proceeds from sale of securities: the refinancing risks of such options.
principal repayments on loans: Mitigation: The general principles of the interest income: and Mitigation: The Banks capability to Banks market risk management policy are fee and commission income.
discharge its liabilities is dependent on set by the ALCO.
The Bank aims to limit its ability to realise an equivalent amount and reduce the amount of possible losses of assets within the same period of time.
As of 31 December 2015, the Groups total on open market positions which may The Bank maintains a portfolio of highly consolidated amounts due to customers be incurred by the Bank due to negative marketable and diverse assets that it was GEL 4,751.4 million US$ 1,984.0 changes in currency exchange rates believes can be easily liquidated in the million as compared to GEL 3,338.7 and interest rates.
The Bank classifies event of an unforeseen interruption of million and GEL 3,117.7 million as of exposures to market risk into either cash flow.
It also has committed lines 31 December 2014 and 2013, respectively trading or non-trading positions.
Trading of credit that it can access to meet its and represented 59.0% as compared and non-trading positions are managed liquidity needs.
Such lines of credit are to 56.2% and 59.0% as of 31 December and monitored using different sensitivity available through the NBGs refinancing 2014 and 2013, respectively of the analyses.
In order to address these facility.
In addition, the Bank maintains Groups total liabilities.
In accordance with risks, the ALCO specifically establishes a cash deposit obligatory reserve with Georgian legislation, the Bank is obliged VAR limits on possible losses for each the NBG, the amount of which depends to repay such deposits upon demand of a type of operation currently the VAR limit on the level of customer funds attracted.
In the case of early withdrawal, is set for foreign currency exchange As of 31 December 2015, in line with the the interest on the deposit is foregone or operations only and the Quantitative NBGs requirements, 15% of customer reduced.
As of 31 December 2015, total Risk Management and Risk Analytics deposits in foreign currencies were set amounts due to credit institutions and monitors compliance with such limits.
In addition, debt securities issued were GEL 2,828.9 the Bank maintains a minimum average million US$ 1,181.2 million as compared Currency exchange rate risk: Currency balance of 10% of its customers deposits to GEL 2,265.9 million and GEL 1,886.1 exchange rate risk is the risk that the in Georgian Lari at its correspondent million as of 31 December 2014 and 2013, value of a financial instrument will fluctuate account at the NBG.
For wholesale respectively and represented 35.1% as due to changes in foreign currency funding, the NBG requires the Bank to set compared to 38.1% and 35.7% as of exchange rates.
The Bank is exposed to aside 15% of its unsubordinated foreign 31 December 2014 and 2013, respectively the effects of fluctuation in the prevailing currency wholesale funding for borrowings of the Groups total liabilities.
Amounts due foreign currency exchange rates on its with a remaining maturity of less than one to credit institutions and debt securities are financial position.
The Banks currency year, 5% for borrowings with a remaining taken from a wide range of counterparties.
risk is calculated as an aggregate of open maturity of one to two years and 10% positions and is controlled by setting a VAR of its unsubordinated Georgian Lari The Bank Management Board believes calculation established by the ALCO with wholesale funding for borrowings with a that both the Groups and the Banks respect to the Banks currency basket.
remaining maturity of less than one year.
liquidity is sufficient to meet each of their The Bank uses the historical simulation present requirements.
For information on method based on 400-business-day Funding: In the Georgian marketplace, the Groups liquid assets, liabilities and statistical data.
Its open currency positions the majority of working capital loans maturity profile of the Groups financial are managed by the Treasury Department are short term and granted with the liabilities as well as further information on on a day-to-day basis and are monitored expectation of renewal at maturity.
As the liquidity risk of the Group see Note 30 by the Quantitative Risk Management and such, the ultimate maturity of assets of the Notes to the consolidated financial Risk Analytics Department.
The ALCO may be different from the analysis statements of this Annual Report.
sets open currency position limits with respect to both overnight and intra-day Borrowed funds maturity breakdown Business Banking 31 December 2015 Repayment schedule, US$million 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Eurobonds 363.5 Senior loans 65.3 68.5 40.4 23.4 2.3 2.1 2.1 Subordinated loans 10.0 65.0 90.0 Total 65.3 432.0 50.4 23.4 2.3 2.1 2.1 65.0 90.0 % of total assets 1.7% 11.3% 1.3% 0.6% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 1.7% 2.3 58 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information The Bank is also subject to prepayment The Bank has an integrated control positions and stop-loss limits.
Currently, risk, which is the risk that the Bank framework encompassing operational the Banks proprietary trading position will incur a financial loss because its risk management and control, is limited by the ALCO to a maximum of customers and counterparties repay or AML compliance, corporate and 15.0% of the Banks NBG total regulatory request repayment earlier than expected, information security and physical capital.
The open currency position is such as fixed rate mortgages when security, each of which is managed also limited by ALCO to a VAR of seven interest rates fall.
The Group reviews by a separate department.
basis points of its NBG regulatory capital the prior history of early repayments by for a one-day trading period with a calculating the weighted average effective The Operational Risk Management 95.0% tolerance threshold.
The ALCO rate of early repayments across each and Control Department is responsible limits are more conservative than NBGs credit product, individually, applying for identification and assessment of requirements, which allow banks to these historical rates to the outstanding operational risk categories within the keep open positions of up to 20.0% of carrying amount of each loan product as Banks processes and operations, regulatory capital.
The Bank additionally of the reporting date and then multiplying detecting critical risk areas or groups limits open foreign currency positions other than US Dollar and Lari to 1% of the the product by the weighted average of operations with an increased risk regulatory capital.
The Bank also applies effective annual interest rates for each level, developing response actions and sensitivity stress tests to its open currency product.
This allows the Bank to calculate the imposition of restrictions in critical positions to estimate potential negative the expected amount of unforeseen risk zones to mitigate identified risk and impact on its net assets and earnings.
losses in the case of early repayments.
developing business-process optimisation schemes, including document circulation, Interest rate risk: The Bank has exposure For further information on the Groups information streams, distribution of market risk see Note 30 of the Notes to interest rate risk as a result of lending at functions, permissions and responsibilities.
to consolidated financial statements fixed and floating interest rates in amounts The Operational Risk Management and of this Annual Report.
and for periods which differ from those Control Department is also responsible of term borrowings at fixed and floating for developing and updating policies interest rates.
Interest margins on assets and procedures and ensuring that these Operational risk and liabilities having different maturities policies and procedures meet legal and Definition: Operational risk is the risk of may increase or decrease as a result regulatory requirements and help to loss arising from systems failure, human of changes in market interest rates.
ensure that material operating risks are error, fraud or external events.
It also monitors controls fail to perform, operational Similarly to other Georgian banks, and periodically reviews the Banks risks can cause damage to reputation, the majority of the Banks assets and internal control systems to detect errors or have legal or regulatory implications, or deposits have fixed interest rates.
In infringements by the Banks departments lead to financial loss.
The Bank cannot order to minimise interest rate risk, and divisions.
The Head of the Operational expect to eliminate all operational risks, the Bank monitors its interest rate Risk Management Department, who but through a control framework and by repricing gap and maintains an interest reports to the Deputy CEO Chief Risk monitoring and responding to potential rate margin net interest income before Officer, is responsible for the oversight risks, the Bank aims to manage the risks.
impairment of interest-earning assets of the Banks operational risks.
Controls include effective segregation divided by average interest-earning of duties, access, authorisation and assets sufficient to cover operational reconciliation procedures, staff education expenses and risk premium.
Within and training and assessment processes, limits approved by the Bank Supervisory including the use of internal audit.
Board, the ALCO approves ranges of interest rates for different maturities at Mitigation: The Bank manages its which the Bank may place assets and operational risks by establishing, attract liabilities.
Compliance with the monitoring and continuously improving Banks interest rate policy is monitored its policies and procedures relating by the Quantitative Risk Management to the various aspects of the Banks and Risk Analytics Department.
cash, payments, accounting, trading and core processing operations As of 31 December 2015, the Groups and data back-up and disaster floating rate borrowings accounted for recovery arrangements.
10.5% of the Groups total liabilities.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 59
