Strategic report Strategy Principal risks and uncertainties The risks identified below are those that the Board considers to be the most relevant to the Group in relation to their potential impact on achievement of its strategic objectives.
All of the risks set out below could materially affect the Group, its businesses, future operations and financial condition and could cause actual results to differ materially from expected or historical results.
The risks below are not the only ones that the Group will face.
Some risks are not yet known and some currently not deemed to be material could later become so.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Board has taken into consideration the principal risks in the context of determining whether to adopt the going concern basis of accounting and when assessing the prospects of the Group for the purposes of the Viability Statement.
The Viability Statement can be found on page 47 of this Strategic Report.
Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation We may be adversely affected by In the last quarter of 2015, the GEL We continuously monitor market conditions continued devaluation of the Lari US$ exchange rate stabilised.
Since and review market changes.
We also in addition to general deterioration 1 January 2016, the Lari has appreciated perform stress and scenario testing to of global, regional and Georgian against the US Dollar.
We are, however, test our financial position in adverse economic conditions.
unable to predict future changes in economic conditions, which includes the GEL US$ exchange rate.
In 2015, the Lari depreciated against the US Dollar by 22%.
Our Banking Business Global and regional economic We also establish limits on possible NPLs to gross loans increased to 4.3% conditions remain volatile and there is losses for each type of operation and as of 31 December 2015, compared to significant economic uncertainty.
monitor compliance with such limits.
3.4% as of 31 December 2014, and our cost of risk ratio increased to 2.7% in Real GDP growth in Georgia decreased to Given our strong liquidity position, we believe that we will be able 2015 compared to 1.2% in 2014.
There 2.8% in 2015 from 4.6% in 2014, according is a risk that any future devaluation of the to Geostat.
This decrease was due to a to manage risk related to our US Dollar-denominated loan book.
Lari against the US Dollar may adversely weaker external economic environment, affect the quality of our loan portfolio, as which was reflected in weaker remittances, In addition, the NBG requires banks to our corporate loan book and mortgage lower net exports from Georgia and lower portfolio is heavily US Dollar-denominated FDI.
Despite lower GDP growth in Georgia hold additional capital to mitigate potential risk associated with foreign currency and many of our customers earn Lari.
in 2015, we believe that Georgia was particularly resilient in the context of the loans to customers that earn Lari.
We are also affected by other economic turbulences in the region.
macroeconomic and market conditions globally, regionally and in Georgia.
Global The IMF has predicted that GDP growth in markets conditions remain volatile and the region is expected to be 0.5% in 2016, growth has recently slowed in many increasing to approximately 2.0% in 2017. emerging economies, including Georgia.
With respect to Georgia alone, the IMF has In addition to currency exchange rates, predicted that GDP growth is expected to other macroeconomic factors relating be 3.0% in 2016 and to average 5.0% in to Georgia, such as GDP, inflation and 2017-2020.
We believe that real GDP growth interest rates, may have a material impact in Georgia will be in the range of 3.0% to on loan losses, our margins and customer 4.5% in 2016 as a result of healthy market demand for our products and services.
fundamentals, new investment opportunities, increased tourism and government reform aimed at tax and customs liberalisation.
Average annual inflation was 4.0% in 2015 and is expected to improve in 2016.
48 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Principal risks and uncertainties Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation Our loan book is heavily US DollarIn 2015, we saw an increase in foreign We have credit policies and procedures in place which incorporate prudent denominated, the quality of which currency predominantly US Dollar NPLs in may deteriorate as a result of slower both our retail and corporate loan portfolios, lending criteria aligned with our risk appetite to effectively manage risk.
economic growth and Lari devaluation.
principally as a result of slower economic growth opposed to the Lari devaluation.
These policies and procedures are During the same period, we also saw a reviewed frequently and amended as As at 31 December 2015, approximately 90% and 54% of our corporate loan 47.9% and 15.1% increase in foreign currency necessary to account for changes in the denominated deposits on a nominal basis economic environment or other factors.
book and retail loan book, respectively, was denominated in foreign currency and constant currency basis, respectively.
Our Credit Committees set counterparty predominantly US Dollars, while US Dollar income covered approximately Foreign currency NPLs as a % of gross limits by the use of a credit risk loans in retail banking and corporate classification and scoring system and 50% of the total loan book.
banking increased by 0.3% and 2.2%, approve individual transactions.
The credit respectively, as of 31 December 2015 quality review process is continuous and The quality of our loan book is affected by changes in the creditworthiness of our compared to 31 December 2014. provides early identification of possible changes in the creditworthiness of customers, the ability of our customers to repay their loans on time, the statutory In 2015, we saw significant retail loan customers, potential losses and corrective growth of 35.3%, as a result of the success actions needed to reduce risk.
priority of claims against customers, our ability to enforce our security interests of our Express Banking strategy and the acquisition of PrivatBank.
The acquisition of We also stress test our loan book to on customers collateral and the value of such collateral should such customers PrivatBank increased the number of retail estimate the size of the portfolio that banking NPLs, but we do not view this as may be impaired.
In light of the Lari to fail to repay their loans, as well as factors beyond our control such as economic significant when compared to loan book US Dollar devaluation, we will continue to growth.
Retail banking default rates remain stress test using a GEL US$ exchange instability.
Depreciation of the Lari against the US Dollar may result in customers relatively low as our retail banking clients rate of 2.7 1.
We allocate 75% more capital prefer to save in US Dollars and also receive to the foreign currency loans of clients having difficulty repaying their loans.
remittances in US Dollars, which constitute who earn income in Lari and discount a principal source of income for our clients.
real estate collateral values by 20%.
Our impairment charges and, in turn, our cost of credit risk, may increase if a The increase in foreign currency NPLs in Given our strong liquidity position, we single large borrower defaults or a material concentration of smaller borrowers default.
our corporate banking business resulted believe that we will be able to manage risk from slower economic growth and our related to our US Dollar-denominated loan strategic decision in the second half of 2015 book by reprofiling such loans.
Potential to decrease corporate banking lending in reprofiling may include extending maturities order to reduce our exposure and improve and or converting US Dollar-denominated our ROAE, which we successfully did.
In 2015, we also significantly increased We will also continue to expand our our NPL coverage ratio 83.4% as Lari and Euro-denominated loan book of 31 December 2015 compared to in order to offset risk associated with 67.5% as of 31 December 2014. our US Dollar-denominated loan book.
The quality of our loan book and our future In particular, we actively work with cost of risk is dependent on macroeconomic IFIs to raise long-term Lari funding to conditions and may deteriorate if conditions increase our Lari-denominated loans.
Devaluation of the Lari against the US Dollars may cause our customers to face difficulty in meeting their payment obligations.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 49 Strategic report Strategy Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation The local economy and our business Despite tensions in the breakaway territories, One of the most significant changes in exports was a shift away from the Russian may be adversely affected Russia has opened its market to Georgian by regional tensions.
Russia and Ukraines relationship market after Russias 2006 embargo.
In 2014, Georgia and the EU signed an has continued to deteriorate.
As a result, Georgia shares borders with Russia, there is significant uncertainty as to how association agreement introducing the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement Azerbaijan, Armenia and Turkey and and when the conflict between Russia has had ongoing disputes in the and Ukraine will be resolved.
During 2015, DCFTA, effective since 1 September 2014, Georgia delivered real GDP growth of 2.8%, which is intended to simplify Georgias breakaway regions of Abkhazia and the Tskhinvali Region South Ossetia, whilst inflation was maintained below the access to the EU market.
Foreign Direct Investment continues to maintain strong relationships and with Russia.
These disputes have led to sporadic violence and breaches continued to be strong, tourist numbers with international development partners.
a significant driver of US Dollar inflows An ongoing IMF programme, introduced in of peacekeeping operations.
Regional tensions could have an adverse effect on for the country continue to rise and, July 2014, is intended to help implement the as a result, the Georgian Governments governments economic reform programme the local economy and our business.
fiscal position continues to be strong.
and aims to reduce macroeconomic vulnerabilities, increase policy buffers and support growth, while making the economy more resilient to external shocks.
Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation We face regulatory risk.
Our businesses are currently in compliance Continued investment in our people and with all applicable laws and regulations.
processes is enabling us to meet our Our businesses are highly regulated.
regulatory requirements and places us Compliance with changes in capital adequacy well to respond to changes in regulation.
Our banking operations must comply requirements and other regulatory ratios may with capital adequacy and other be affected by factors outside of our control, In line with our integrated control regulatory ratios set by our regulator, the including but not limited to a weakening framework, we carefully evaluate the impact NBG, including reserve requirements of the global and Georgian economies.
of legislative and regulatory changes and mandatory financial ratios.
as part of our formal risk identification In October 2014, an anti-monopoly agency and assessment processes and, to the Our ability to comply with these was established and anti-monopoly extent possible, proactively participate regulations may be affected by a number legislation was implemented in respect of in the drafting of relevant legislation.
of factors, including but not limited to certain non-banking operations.
We expect As part of this process, we engage in increases in minimum capital adequacy that such legislation may have an impact on constructive dialogue with regulatory ratios imposed by the NBG, our ability our non-banking operations acquisitions as bodies, where possible, and seek external to raise capital, losses resulting from we will be required to seek permission to advice on potential changes to legislation.
a deterioration in our asset quality, an proceed with certain future acquisitions.
We then develop appropriate policies, increase in expenses and a decline in procedures and controls as required the values of our securities portfolio.
As healthcare legislation is continuously to fulfil our compliance obligations.
evolving, we expect that additional regulations We also provide other regulated financial will be adopted.
We, however, cannot predict Our compliance framework, at all levels, services and offer financing products, what additional regulatory changes will be is subject to regular review by internal including brokerage and pension fund introduced in the future or their effect.
audit and external assurance providers.
operations, insurance and services such as asset management, all of which are subject to governmental supervision and regulation.
With respect to our healthcare operations, there have been a number of reforms in the Georgian healthcare services market, including but not limited to the introduction of a Universal Healthcare Programme UHC.
It is possible that the Government may amend the UHC to enhance coverage and it may introduce new licensing or accreditation requirements, which may adversely affect our healthcare services and health insurance businesses.
50 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation We are subject to operational risk.
Over the past few years, as our operations We have an integrated control framework encompassing operational risk have expanded, we have seen an increase The proper functioning of our systems, risk in external fraud, although losses from such management and control, information technology and information security, management, internal controls, accounting, frauds have not increased significantly.
customer service and other information AML compliance and physical security, each of which is managed technology systems, are critical to our Cyber-security threats have also increased operations.
We are highly dependent on year on year, but have not affected our by a separate department.
It is expected that such threats threats show an increasing trend.
We are will continue to increase, which will require We identify and assess operational risk us to closely monitor such threats.
categories within our risk management also subject to the risk of incurring losses or undue costs due to human error, criminal framework and internal control processes, Money laundering has also increased identifying critical risk areas or groups of activities including fraud and electronic crimes, unauthorised transactions, globally and will be continuously monitored operations with an increased risk level.
In by our AML compliance department.
response to these risks, we develop and robbery and damage to assets.
implement policies and security procedures.
We carry out regular IT and IS checks internally and with the assistance of external consultants.
We have sophisticated anti-virus and firewalls, regularly conduct penetration testing and have back-up disaster recovery and business continuity plans in place across the Group.
Access control and password protections are also in place.
Our internal audit function provides assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk management internal controls.
Operational risk is a regular agenda for the Audit Committee.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 51
