Strategic report Strategy BGEO risk management We are exposed to risk and uncertainty which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, operational results and reputation as well as the value and liquidity of our shares.
We are committed to safeguarding the interests of our shareholders and understand that in order to do this, a robust system of risk management and internal control is essential.
Our control framework is the foundation Overview Since the Bank is the Groups largest for the delivery of effective risk We identify, evaluate, manage and business and operates in the complex management.
At the Board, Committee monitor the risks that we face through an financial services sector, its risk and senior management levels, we integrated control framework consisting management and internal control develop formal policies and procedures of formal policies and procedures, framework is key to that of the Group.
which explain the way in which risks clearly delegated authority levels and need to be systematically identified, A detailed description of the Banks comprehensive reporting.
The Board risk management and internal assessed, quantified, managed confirms that our framework has been control framework can be found and monitored.
We clearly delegate in place throughout the year under on page 99. authority levels and reporting lines review and to the date of approval of throughout the management hierarchy.
this Annual Report and Accounts and is Internal control Each business participates in the risk integrated into both our business planning As mentioned above, our Board is management process by identifying and viability assessment processes.
responsible for reviewing and approving the key risks applicable to its business.
the Groups system of internal control Through senior management, we Our Board, supported by our Audit and and its adequacy and effectiveness.
ensure that our employees are given Risk Committees and senior management, Controls are reviewed to ensure is ultimately responsible for the Groups the appropriate training and knowledge effective management of strategic, risk management and internal controls.
to perform their roles in line with the financial, operational and compliance framework we have developed.
Certain matters, such as the We believe that in order to have an approval of major capital expenditure, effective risk management framework there On a day-to-day basis, management is significant acquisitions or disposals needs to be a strong risk management responsible for the implementation of and major contracts, among others, culture within the Group.
We have worked the Groups risk management and other are reserved exclusively for the Board.
to ensure that managing risk is engrained internal control policies and procedures.
The full schedule of matters specifically in our everyday business activities.
We Based on our risk culture, managers reserved for the Board can be found on seek to create an environment where there own the risks relevant to their respective our website, at http: bgeo.
com page is openness and transparency in how we function.
For each risk identified at any id 67  decisions and manage risks and level of the business, the risk is measured, for-the-board.
With respect to other where business managers are accountable mitigated if possible in accordance matters, the Board is often assisted by for the risk management and internal with our policies and procedures and both the Audit and Risk Committees.
control processes associated with their monitored.
Managers are required to activities.
Our culture also seeks to ensure report on identified risks and responses With respect to internal control over that risk management is responsive, to such risks on a consistent basis.
financial reporting, including over the forward-looking and consistent.
Senior management regularly review Groups consolidation process, our the output from the bottom-up process financial procedures include a range of Our framework by providing independent challenge system, transactional and management The Boards mandate includes determining and assessing the implementation oversight controls.
Our businesses prepare the Groups risk appetite and risk tolerance of the risk management and internal detailed monthly management reports as well as monitoring risk exposures to control policies and procedures.
that include analyses of their results along ensure that the nature and extent of the with comparisons to relevant strategic main risks we face are consistent with our Comprehensive reporting forms an integral plans, budgets, forecasts and prior results.
overall goals and strategic objectives.
Our reporting These are presented to and reviewed develop risk management strategies which process enables key risks to be escalated by senior management.
Each quarter, address the full spectrum of risks that to the appropriate level of authority and the CFO of JSC BGEO Group and the the Group faces.
We are accountable for provides assurance to the Committees and Bank as well as the finance team discuss reviewing the effectiveness of the systems the Board.
Key developments affecting our financial reporting and associated internal and processes of risk management and principal risks and associated mitigating controls with the Audit Committee, which internal control, with the Audit and Risk actions are reviewed quarterly or more reports significant findings to the Board.
Committees assisting in the discharge of often if necessary on an ad hoc basis if The Audit Committee also reviews the this responsibility.
We also focus on the outside of the regular reporting process quarterly, half-year and full-year financial resolution of any internal control failures by the Audit and Risk Committees, as statements and corresponding press that may arise, although no significant appropriate, and the Board.
The principal releases and provides feedback to the failures occurred during 2015 and the risks and uncertainties faced by the Group Board.
The external and internal auditors period up to the date of this Annual Report.
are identified through this process.
attend each Audit Committee meeting and the Audit Committee meets regularly both The Groups risk appetite is the amount A description of these principal risks and uncertainties in addition to recent with and without management present.
and type of risk that we are prepared trends and outlook as well as to seek, accept or tolerate.
Our risk mitigation efforts can be found on Our Audit and Risk Committees monitor appetite evolves over time to reflect new pages 48 to 51. internal control over operating and risks and changes in external market compliance risk through discussions developments and circumstances.
46 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Although we did not identify any significant Groups future prospects: with the Chief Risk Officer and Head of weaknesses or failings, we continuously Boards risk appetite: Compliance and other senior management strive to improve our framework as Groups strategy as set out on a quarterly basis.
Any key issues circumstances change and new risks on pages 30 to 41: identified are escalated to the Board.
With the assistance of the Groups principal risks and Board also receives regular presentations Audit Committee, external consultants uncertainties, principally those directly from the head of each business.
were engaged in 2015 to perform an related to the devaluation of the Important risk and internal control issues audit of the Groups IT and IS systems, Lari and dollarisation of our loan are addressed in such presentations.
which included a review of our cyberbook, and how they are managed, security controls.
The report concluded as set out on pages 48 to 51: The Groups internal audit function that our IT and IS controls overall are effectiveness of our risk reviews a number of areas of risk strong.
We discussed the results and management framework and pursuant to a programme approved by recommendations of the audit report with internal control process: and the Audit Committee.
Any issues or risks the Audit Committee and management, downside stress testing performed arising from an internal audit review are who subsequently developed a plan to for the assessment period, which reviewed by the Audit Committee and address the main recommendations.
involved modelling the impact of a appropriate actions are undertaken to ensure satisfactory resolution.
The Head With the assistance of the Audit combination of severe and plausible of Internal Audit has a direct reporting line Committee, we will continue to monitor adverse scenarios as well as the to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
managements implementation of this plan.
availability and likely effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could be Our systems of internal control are Committee reports taken to avoid or reduce the impact or also supported by our Whistleblowing As noted throughout this discussion, occurrence of the identified underlying Policy, which allows employees to both the Audit and Risk Committees risks to which the Group is exposed.
report concerns on an anonymous play an essential role in implementing basis.
The Audit Committee approves effective risk management and internal The Directors have determined that a the Whistleblowing Policy on an control.
Each Committee has described three-year period to 31 December 2018 annual basis and receives quarterly this work in their Committee report.
is an appropriate period over which reports from the Head of Compliance to provide its viability statement as on any significant issues raised.
The Audit and Risk Committee the Board considers its strategic plan, Reports can be found on pages 100 financial budgets and forecasts annually to 103 and pages 104 to 105, Effectiveness review and on a rolling three-year basis.
Each year, we review the effectiveness of our risk management processes Based on the analysis described Going concern statement and internal control systems, with above, the Directors confirm that they The Groups business activities, together the assistance of the Audit and Risk have a reasonable expectation that the with the factors likely to affect its Committees.
This review covers all material Company will be able to continue in future development, performance and systems, including financial, operational operation and meet its liabilities as they position are set out on pages 2 to 85. and compliance controls.
The latest review fall due over the three-year period from After making enquiries, the Directors covered the financial year to 31 December 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018. confirm that they have a reasonable 2015 and the period to the approval of expectation that BGEO and the Group, this Annual Report and Accounts.
as a whole, have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for We obtained assurance from the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they management, Internal Audit, our external continue to adopt the going concern auditors and other external specialists.
basis in preparing the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
The Board is able to conclude with reasonable assurance that the appropriate Viability statement internal control and risk management In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of systems were maintained throughout the Code, the Directors have assessed the year and operated effectively.
The the viability of the Group over a threereview did not identify any significant year period beginning 1 January 2016, weaknesses or failings in the systems.
We being the first day after the end of the are satisfied that our risk management financial year to which this report relates.
processes and internal control systems processes comply with the UK Corporate This assessment has taken into Governance Code 2014 the Code accountthe: and the FRCs Financial Reporting Council guidance on Risk Management, Groups current financial and Internal Control and Related Financial operational condition, including and Business Reporting.
capital allocation: Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 47
