Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES To ensure a common understanding of risk in the context of the Groups business, the Board have adopted the following risk definition: Uncertainty of outcome of actions or events that will impact on the business objectives, whether as an opportunity or a threat.
To assist a uniform understanding of risk across the Group, all In pursuit of that aim, the Group has followed industry good risks are organised around one of three high level risk groups.
practice for risk management governance through the adoption These are: of the three lines of defence model.
The Board believes this approach best serves the interests of Brewin Dolphins Strategic and Business clients and other stakeholders by ensuring accountability of management and the proportionate allocation of resource within Financial the oversight and control functions.
Operational The Board regularly assesses the effectiveness of the Groups Each high level risk group contains a series of specific risks internal controls through the review and challenge of reports to ensure that all risks can be reported clearly and accurately.
from the Groups Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee, This also ensures the Group can assess the financial resources together with the appraisal of issues escalated from the business itis required to hold against these.
through the Groups Executive Committee.
In addition, the Groups Risk and Compliance Department and Internal Audit independently carry out reviews and report to the Board Audit Risk management Committee, Board Risk Committee and the Board.
Whilst it is everyones responsibility to manage risks within their domain, ultimate accountability for risk management resides with the Board, which is responsible for setting the Groups risk Objectives of risk management appetite and ensuring that there is an adequate and appropriate The prime objectives of risk management in the Group are to Risk Management Framework in place.
The implementation ensure there is: and delivery of that framework is a collective responsibility A strong risk culture so that employees are able to identify, across the Group, with senior management, the Group Risk assess, manage and report against the key risks to the and Compliance Director and the Head of Risk playing pivotal business and implement the Groups business strategy.
The Finance Director has responsibility for the oversight of the management of the Groups financial risks.
An appropriate balance between risk and the cost of control.
The Executive Committee has the responsibility for oversight of strategic and business risks and has delegated responsibility to A defined risk appetite within which risks are managed.
the Risk Management Committee for day-to-day oversight of A swift and effective response to incidents in order to financial and operational risk matters.
The Board understands that a clear Risk Management Framework is a fundamental requirement for effective governance.
However, for a Risk Management Framework to be effective, it requires every employee within the organisation to adhere to and advocate the risk culture set by the Board.
30 Risk Culture Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk Management Framework Business Strategy Risk Appetite Policy Framework Risk Risk Risk Risk Identification Management Monitoring Assurance and and and Assessment Mitigation Reporting Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP Appropriate levels of conduct and considered risk Risk culture taking behaviour.
Conduct Risk and the risk culture of the Group are considered Recognition of the importance of knowledge, skill and by the Board Risk Committee.
The Group aims to foster a experience in risk management.
risk-aware culture throughout the business by promoting: Members of staff at all levels to make suggestions for A distinct and consistent tone from the top.
Clear accountabilities for those managing risk.
An acceptance of the importance of continuous management Prompt sharing and reporting of risk information.
of risk, including clear accountability for and ownership of specific risks.
31 Governance Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk Description Key Mitigators Business and Strategic Risk Acquisitions The risk that mergers, acquisitions Risk appetite set by the Board and disposals or divestments made by the Group Robust governance and challenge from independent Non-Executive Directors do not achieve stated strategic Independent legal, accounting, regulatory and commercial due diligence objectives or give rise to ongoing or Managing businesses integration in line with Group strategy once acquired previously unidentified liabilities.
Business The risk that the Groups business The potential risks and threats to the strategy and business model are considered model model inadequately meets its by the Board Risk Committee and escalated to the Board objectives or fails to respond to Divestment of non-core lines of business changes in the market resulting in an adverse impact upon sustainable growth, clients or profitability.
Regulatory The risk that changes to the Strategy to ensure the business model remains flexible and responsive to changes change regulatory framework the Group in the regulatory framework operates within materially affects the Risk and Compliance function provide regular updates to the Executive Committee Groups business model, proposition, and Board Risk Committee on the impact of upcoming regulatory change overheads or operations.
Active dialogue with regulators, the Government and industry bodies Client The risk that client outcomes are Investment Governance Committee provides product and service governance outcomes insufficiently considered as part of including alignment with strategy, appetite for risk and client interests and outcomes decision making within the Groups Conduct Risk Management Framework is being enhanced and is overseen by the processes leading to poor outcomes Board Risk Committee for clients.
Independent monitoring by the Compliance function Independent Client Services team reporting to the Group Risk and Compliance Director handles client complaints Direction The level of business and strategic risk faced by the Group has increased over 2014 15, primarily driven by the of change: degree of change in the regulatory and external environments.
Internal changes included the launch of BPS on the Brewins Direct platform, which widens our offering by providing a non-advisory investment service for clients with smaller sums to invest, the sale of Stocktrade and changes to the Brewin Dolphin core proposition.
These changes are intended to reduce business and strategic risk over the longer term and are critical in reaching the Groups strategic and long-term objectives.
Financial Risks Credit and Brewin Dolphin is not materially A Financial Risk Management Committee has been established to identify, Counterparty, exposed to any of these risks, but measure and monitor those risks Tax, Liquidity, monitors and maintains controls Market, against them.
Pensions Direction There were no material changes to the level of financial risk faced by the Group in 2014 2015. of change: 32 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk Description Key Mitigators Operational Risks Business The risk that business change Over-arching governance of business critical programmes provided by Executive change projects are ineffective, fail to deliver and Board stated objectives, or result in resources In-house change team reporting to Chief Operating Officer provides strong being stretched to the detriment of project management capability business as usual activities.
Business The risk that a physical business Dedicated business continuity function within the Group continuity continuity event or system failure Regular testing of business continuity and disaster recovery processes and disaster results in a reduced ability, or inability Escalation protocol in place to facilitate prompt response to material incidents recovery to perform core business activities or processes.
Criminality The risk of unauthorised access to, Dedicated Information Security team reporting to the Group Risk and or external disclosure of, client or Compliance Director company information or assets by IT Risk Framework in place supported by an ongoing programme of IT any persons internal or external to Risk assessments the Group.
Whistleblowing policy in place with oversight from the Audit Committee Legal and The risk of regulatory sanction or legal Compliance framework in place across the Group which operates to a three lines Compliance proceedings as a result of failure to of defence governance model comply with regulatory, statutory or Governance and reporting of regulatory risks through the key Client Asset fiduciary requirements, or as a result Oversight Committee, Investment Governance Committee and Risk of a defective transaction.
Management Committee Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements including relevant codes of practice Outsourcing The risk of third party organisations A Vendor Risk Management Framework in place, overseen by the Vendor Risk and inadequately or failing to provide or Management Committee, a sub-committee of the Risk Management Committee procurement perform the outsourced activities The framework includes processes to identify and approve all outsource and or contractual obligations to the or vendor relationships, to perform effective due diligence and requires effective standards required by the Group.
contractual arrangements and service level agreements to be put in place The risk of third party suppliers inadequately or failing to supply in accordance with their obligations.
People The risk of loss of key staff, Performance management framework in place to develop, motivate and retain insufficient skilled resources and staff and reward appropriate behaviour inappropriate behaviours or actions.
Processing The risk that the design or execution Independent Risk function in place to provide second line review and challenge and systems of business processes including tooperational processes and controls dealing is inadequate or fails A framework to identify key risks and controls using Risk and Control Self to deliver an expected level of assessments is carried out on key business processes service and protection to client or Group assets.
Direction The level of Operational Risk has decreased over the past year due to the effective introduction of an of change: enhanced Operational Risk Management Framework and operating system.
33 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report
