Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Risk management Caledonia risk governance and structure Effective risk management is a key Risk management and its governance is the responsibility of the component of the company bu s siness board, with the executive given the task of ensuring an effective and transparent process to ensure risks are identified, documented, model and assists in ensuring that the assessed and, where appropriate, mitigated.
The board sets the different parts of the group operate risk appetite within the business model and this is communicated through the executive to all those with managerial responsibilities.
The Risks emanate from all parts of the business and are considered by board has overall responsibility for all executives as part of their work, from origination of investments to ongoing monitoring and portfolio management.
setting and monitoring the company s The Audit Committee assesses and monitors the risk management risk appetite.
processes and structure and specifically reviews the controls assurance programme.
This programme identifies key mitigating controls, tests their operation and reports on compliance and effective operation.
This, together with reports arising from the external audit, provides input to the board as a whole on the status of the risk management process.
Board of directors Primary responsibility Audit Committee Reviews and approves the Corporate risk management governance process Finance Director Reports risk and operates controls assurance programme Investment Business executives engagement Risk management part of investing process Investee managements Ris identification and mitigation responsiility Risk management reporting Caledonia manages and reports risk through two primary areas of focus an overall business risk report and a portfolio investment risk report.
The business risk report considers the wider business environment of the group, including business continuity planning, IT and cyber security risks, regulatory risks and financial control risks.
Caledonia manages business risk through a number of integrated processes and procedures operating throughout the year to provide risk visibility to both the executive team and the wider board.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 25 t n M e o m n u i t c o o r d a d n n d a i y m f p ti r n o e v d e I S e y t g t a e h e r t t t g i a ti e w r e t t p t s a p n Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Risk management continued Caledonia risk management process Principal risks Mitigation ey developments Risks are identified and assessed through a risk dashboard, The companys business model and strategy are reviewed Caledonia has developed its risk monitoring procedures Strategic capturing the most significant business risks facing Caledonia and periodically, against market conditions and target returns.
to ensure that there is a clear and monitored strategic Risks in relation to the appropriateness of the business model to documenting the actions required to achieve an acceptable level of alignment of the portfolio to the agreed strategy.
deliver long term growth in capital and income and the effective risk.
The business risk dashboard is reported to the board half yearly.
The performance of the company and its key risks are communication and delivery of the business model.
monitored regularly by management and the board.
The portfolio investment risk report specifically focuses on the Strategic risks include the appropriate allocation of capital in relation more technical areas of investment portfolio risk in relation to to geographic, sector and currency exposures.
This includes such risks as investment volatility, value at risk, diversification, liquidity and Pool managers have well-developed networks through The continued development of investment management Investment concentration risks.
which they attract proprietary deal flow.
skills and expertise over the last three years has facilitated Risks in respect of specific investment and realisation decisions.
increased deal flow and quality of research across the Investment opportunities are subject to rigorous and Investment risks include the appropriate research and due diligence portfolio.
disciplined investment appraisals and multi-stage approval of new investments and the timely execution of both new processes.
Target entry and exit events and prices are investments and realisations for optimising shareholder value.
monitored and updated regularly, in relation to market conditions and strategic aims.
Market risks and sensitivities are reviewed on a weekly basis Risk weighted performance reporting and portfolio risk Market and actions taken to balance appropriately risk and return.
analysis has been enhanced to look at the movement in Risk of losses in value of investments arising from movements the risk factors and why these have occurred, giving more in market prices, particularly in highly volatile markets.
A regular review of market and investment volatility and value complete insight into the characteristics and performance at risk is conducted by the board and the portfolio is realigned Caledonia invests primarily in listed equities, private companies of Caledonias portfolio.
with strategic aims where appropriate.
Reviews also consider and equity funds.
Its principal market risks are therefore equity investment concentration, currency and liquidity exposures.
price volatility, foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate volatility.
An explanation of these risks, along with sensitivities, is included in note 22 to these accounts.
Detailed cash forecasting for six months ahead is updated Average liquidity levels of our quoted portfolio have Liquidity and reviewed weekly, including the expected drawdown of increased over the last year, as we have continued to Risk that liabilities cannot be met or new investments made due to capital commitments.
realise less liquid non-core investments.
Such risk can arise from not being able to sell an investment due to lack of a market or from not holding cash or being Loan facilities are maintained to provide appropriate liquidity Committed borrowing facilities to 175m are in place up able to raise debt.
The liquidity of the portfolio is reviewed regularly.
Systems and control procedures are developed and reviewed An IT risk dashboard is maintained and is an important Operational regularly.
They are tested, as part of the annual programme document, noting current IT risks facing Caledonia.
Risks arising from inadequate or failed processes, people and of controls assurance, to ensure effective operation.
systems or from external factors.
Increasing use of the cloud for systems processing, Appropriate remuneration and other policies are in place to including email and for backing up data.
Operational risks arise from the recruitment, development and encourage the retention of key staff.
Business continuity plans retention of staff, systems and procedures and business disruption.
are maintained, using an offsite facility.
There have been no significant additional regulatory Regulatory and legal Caledonia has internal resources to consider all regulatory requirements in the year.
Risk arising from exposure to litigation or fraud and adherence to and tax matters as they arise.
Use is made of advisers and the the tax and regulatory environment, as Caledonia operates across Association of Investment Companies, of which Caledonia is a number of jurisdictions and in an industry that has been subject a member and on whose self-managed investment company to increasing regulatory oversight.
26 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc n d a e d t e k s s v m i i s o i r n ti r t g o e p a S c p t a e k c a a b S n d c d e o e l r i f e k d e i l n i m h a p o t a o r c o d t p e R Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Principal risks Mitigation ey developments The companys business model and strategy are reviewed Caledonia has developed its risk monitoring procedures Strategic periodically, against market conditions and target returns.
to ensure that there is a clear and monitored strategic Risks in relation to the appropriateness of the business model to alignment of the portfolio to the agreed strategy.
deliver long term growth in capital and income and the effective The performance of the company and its key risks are communication and delivery of the business model.
Strategic risks include the appropriate allocation of capital in relation to geographic, sector and currency exposures.
Pool managers have well-developed networks through The continued development of investment management Investment which they attract proprietary deal flow.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 27
