Risk management Managing our risks Our business is risk, so managing this effectively and efficiently is critical to the success of ourstrategy.
Group Audit are the Third Line of Defence and provides Managing risk in line with our strategy an independent view of the effectiveness of risk management Management, and ultimately the Board, are responsible and controls see diagram below.
Our strategic planning process aims to ensure we have developed clear objectives and Risk appetite targets, and identified the actions needed to deliver them, Our risk appetite statements define the opportunities and including the management of risks.
These clear objectives are associated risks we are prepared to accept to achieve our consistent withour overall long-term ambition of sustainable business objectives see table on the next page.
To monitor growth andat least a 15% RoTE within our risk appetite.
whether the business remains within risk appetite, the statements To find out more about our strategy, see page 14. are aligned to key risk indicators KRIs which are used to drive risk-aware decision making.
Our risk governance structure The Board sets and monitors adherence to the risk strategy, These KRIs are qualitative and quantitative, and both forward risk appetite and risk framework.
It has established a risk and backward looking.
We review our risk appetite statements management model that separates responsibilities into and KRIs annually, using outputs from the internal economic Three Lines of Defence.
Our First Line of Defence is responsible for ownership The Group is recalibrating its risk appetite range in relation and management of risks to the achievement of business to the Solvency II internal model and expects to disclose objectives on a day-to-day basis.
The Second Line of Defence the output of this later in 2016. is responsible for the provision of proportionate oversight and challenge of risks, events and management actions.
Our risk governance structure Board Investment Board Risk Audit Nomination Remuneration CSR Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Risk Management Disclosure Chief Executive Committee Committee officer Second Line of Defence First Line of Defence Third Line of Defence Risk ownership Risk and Compliance oversight, challenge Independent assurance and support of First Line Personal Lines Group Audit Specialist functions Tools: Commercial with Second Line High level controls and Claims responsibilities for certain systems of governance Finance policies and Enterprise Risk Management Chief Information Ofce minimum standards: Strategy and Framework Human Resources Finance Delegated authorities Policies Legal Company Secretariat Chief Information Ofce Minimum standards Claims Business Services Risk appetite Human Resources Assurance and monitoring Legal Company Secretariat Oversight and governance Own Risk and Solvency Assessment 26 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our risk objectives and appetite Risk objective Risk appetite statement Overarching risk objective The Group recognises that its long-term sustainability is dependent on having sufficient economic capital to meet its liabilities as they fall due, thus protecting its reputation and the integrity of its relationship with policyholders and other stakeholders.
As part of this, its appetite is for general insurance risk, focusing on personal lines retail and SME insurance in the UK.
The Group has appetite for non-insurance risks, as appropriate, to enable and assist it to undertake its primary activity of insurance.
Maintain capital adequacy The Group seeks to maintain sufficient economic capital consistent with our strategic aim of achieving a standalone credit rating in the A range.
Stable and efficient access The Group aims to meet both planned and unexpected cash outflow requirements, including to funding and liquidity those requirements that arise following a one-in-200 years insurance, market or credit risk event.
Maintain stakeholder The Group has no appetite for material risks resulting in reputational damage, regulatory confidence or legal censure, fines or prosecutions and other types of non-budgeted operational risk losses associated with Group conduct and activities.
The Group will maintain a robust and proportionate internal control environment.
Our Enterprise Risk Management Strategy andFramework Group strategy This sets out, at a high level, our approach to setting risk strategy and the Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF for managing risks.
It documents the high-level principles and Risk appetite practices to achieve appropriate risk management standards, and demonstrates the inter-relationships between components Policy framework of the ERMF see diagram.
Reporting & The ERMF enables us to run the business with the requisite monitoring Principal risks understanding of our risks and controls, as well as having appropriate oversight in place to manage risks proactively.
It is aligned to the Three Lines of Defence model and is intended to provide a coherent, robust, fit for purpose, end-to-end approach for managing all material risks.
A central component of the ERMF is our policy framework, which includes policies Risk management and minimum standards.
These inform the business how it needs to conduct activities to remain within risk appetite.
Identify Risk The Board approves our strategy, risk appetite and policies, profile and the Board Risk Committee approves the Enterprise Risk Assess Management Strategy and Framework.
Our risk culture Manage Our risk culture underpins our business and decision-making, and helps us embed a robust approach to risk management.
Monitor Our risk culture is demonstrated in the understanding and business-wide use of the risk management systems and processes, and through risk-aware decision making.
The Board is committed Report to promoting a culture of high standards of corporate governance, business integrity, ethics and professionalism in all of our activities.
com 27 Risk management continued Principal risks and uncertainties We carry out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing us.
Principal risks are defined as having a residual risk impact of 40 million or more on profit before tax or net asset value on a one-in-200 years basis, taking into account customer, financial and reputational impacts.
We believe that the risk profile remains broadly unchanged over the last year.
Principal risks Owner Management and mitigation examples Insurance risk Chief Financial We estimate technical reserves using various actuarial and Officer, statistical techniques.
Managements best estimate of total Reserve Managing Directors reserves is set at not less than the actuarial best estimate of Personal Lines Underwriting Third parties carry out reviews of our reserves and Commercial Distribution Underwriting guidelines are set for all transacted business Pricing and pricing refined by analysing comprehensive data Reinsurance Catastrophe and motor excess of loss reinsurance limits our exposure to events and large losses The risk of loss due to fluctuations We invest in enhanced external data to analyse and in the timings, amount, frequency mitigate exposures and severity of an insured event relative to the expectations at the time of underwriting.
Market risk Chief Financial We manage and control the risks in our investment Officer portfolio through: Spread investment strategy approved by the Board Interest rate diversification of the types of assets, limits on the amount Property of illiquid investments, and tight control of individual credit exposures The risk of loss resulting from fluctuations in the level and in the risk-reduction techniques, such as hedging foreign currency volatility of market prices of assets, exposures with forward contracts and hedging exposure liabilities and financial instruments.
to US interest rates with swap contracts See pages 124 to 126. Credit risk Chief Financial Credit limits are set for each counterparty and we actively Officer monitor credit exposures Counterparty default We only purchase reinsurance from reinsurers with at least Concentration an Arating The risk of loss resulting from fluctuations in the credit standing of issuers of securities, counterparties and any debtors to which we are exposed.
Operational risk Specific members We have appropriate operational processes and systems, of the Executive including detection systems for fraudulent claims Information security We are working to improve the performance of our IT systems IT and business continuity across the board, while focusing on the development of future Partnership contractual obligations systems capability.
With significant change underway, Change we are monitoring risks associated with our IT systems stability, cyber security and the internal control environment Financial reporting Our risk management system is designed to enable us to Model capture risk information in a robust and consistent way Outsourcing We monitor performance of outsourced activities The risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or from external events.
28 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Principal risks Owner Management and mitigation examples Regulatory and conduct risk Chief Financial We maintain a constructive and open relationship with Officer, our regulators Regulatory Chief Risk Officer Specific risk management tools and resources are used and Managing Conduct to help manage our exposure to regulatory risk Director of Compliance Personal Lines Risk-based monitoring is designed to ensure we use our resources effectively The risks leading to reputational damage, regulatory or legal censure, We have a strong culture of considering customers fines or prosecutions and other perspectives, and delivering the right outcomes for our types of non-budgeted operational customers is central to how we operate risk losses associated with our Robust customer conduct risk management is intended conduct and activities.
to minimise our exposures Strategic risk Chief Executive We agree, monitor and manage strategic targets Officer An annual strategy process is run which considers our Strategy formulation performance, competitor positioning and strategic opportunities Strategy implementation Emerging risks are identified and managed using established governance processes and fora The risk of direct or indirect adverse impact on the earnings, capital, or value of our business as a result of the strategies not being optimally chosen, implemented or adapted to changing conditions.
Brand and reputational risk is now considered within the drivers of other risk types such as regulatory and conduct, operational and strategic risks.
Emerging risks Our definition of emerging risk is newly developing or changing risks that are often difficult to quantify, but may materially affect our business.
We have further defined emerging risks as highly uncertain risks that are external to our business.
We record emerging risks within an Emerging Risk Register.
These are reported to the Risk Management Committee and Board Risk Committee for them to review, challenge, approve and feed into the Boards strategic planning process.
Our emerging risks processes aim to: Achieve first mover advantage by recognising risks and associated opportunities early Reduce the uncertainty and volatility of our businesss results Manage emerging risks proactively We consider our main emerging risks to be the following: Technological change in driving habits reduces consumer need for motor insurance New car technologies, such as crash-prevention technologies and driverless cars, could significantly affect the size and nature of the insurance market, and the role of insurers.
Changes to traditional insurance business models New market entrants and changes in consumer expectations could result in significant changes to the structure of the general insurance market and require us to update our business model.
New methods of gathering and using customer data Using big data as part of our strategy could create new data management risks and issues: for example, complying with regulations relating to third-party access to telematics data.
