Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report 25 Principal risks The Directors consider that the following are the principal risks facing esure Group including Gocompare.
com, focusing on those that would threaten the business model, future performance or the solvency liquidity: Insurance Risk Risk Impact Mitigation and management Underwriting risk from If the Groups general pricing The Group continues to monitor developments through pricing strategy the risk strategy is not managed regular sensitivity testing of the key variables affecting of an inappropriate pricing correctly, it could result in loss performance, including loss ratios, risk mix, pricing, strategy could lead to an unintended change in the quote conversion, renewal retention ratios, claims business being written at Groups risk profile, market costs, claims frequency and the adequacy of reserves.
uneconomic rates and result share and loss ratio.
Action regarding these risks is taken in an integrated in lower than expected approach between the executive team, underwriting, profitability.
This could be claims and risk management.
driven by internal pricing There is strong and regular monitoring in place to changes or changes understand and react to the changing market rating in the rating environment environment, ensuring that we are well placed to within the market.
Underwriting risk from An unplanned deterioration Loss ratio risk is managed through a robust claims claims costs the risk that in the loss ratio, arising management process and regular monitoring and a material increase in claims from inflation in claims sensitivity testing of the key variables affecting loss costs could negatively costs beyond planned performance, including risk mix, pricing relative to the affect the Groups financial and achievable increases market, quote conversion and renewal retention ratios, performance.
claims costs, claims frequency and the adequacy risks arising from adverse of reserves.
claims litigation outcomes, increases in frequency of PPOs and potential changes to the Ogden discount rate.
Reserving risk the risk Adverse development We have a prudent approach to reserving risk that insufficient funds have in prior year reserves the Groups actuarial function analyses and projects been set aside to settle and resulting in deterioration historical claims development data and uses a number handle historic claim amounts of financial performance.
of actuarial techniques to test and forecast claims as they fall due.
In addition, the Group also provides data to independent external actuaries who assess the adequacy of the Groups claims provisions.
Apart from historical analysis, the Group also takes into account changes in risk profile and underwriting policy conditions, changes in legislation or regulation and changes in other external factors including assumptions on PPOs and potential changes to the Ogden discount rate.
Financial Risk Financial risk the risk The preparation of financial The Group reviews financial estimates and underlying that inaccurate financial information requires assumptions on an ongoing basis, taking into account estimates or judgements management to make changes in underwriting conditions, changes in could misrepresent our judgements, estimates and legislation or regulation, and market movements.
Actual results Ultimately, the oversight of the Groups material capital and change may differ from these financial estimates and judgements resides with key strategic decisions.
estimates, which could affect the Audit Committee.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 26 Risk management and principal risks continued Market Risk Risk Impact Mitigation and management Market risk from Changes in UK interest rates Our investment strategy does not expose the Group investment activity or investment markets have to material currency risk or the risks arising from active the risk that a negative an impact on the return on trading of derivatives.
Market risk is managed through financial impact arises from the market valuation of the regular monitoring, including the drivers of investment holdings in interest rate, Groups investment portfolio.
return and value at risk measures, counterparty currency and equity products, exposures and interest rate sensitivities.
all of which are exposed to general and specific market movements.
Default risk from Defaults from investment The Group manages the level of investment counterparty investment counterparty counterparties affect both credit risk it accepts by placing limits on its exposure the risk that an investment the income from, and market to a single counterparty or correlated counterparties.
counterparty will not be able valuation of, the Groups Such risks are subject to regular review by the to pay amounts in full when investment portfolio.
due in accordance with the term of the contract, causing the Group to incur a financial loss.
Credit Risk Credit risk from Reinsurance counterparty The creditworthiness of reinsurers is managed on reinsurance counterparty defaults reduce the protection an annual basis by reviewing their financial strength the largest counterparty provided through our prudent prior to finalisation of any contract.
credit risk we are exposed reinsurance structure.
In addition, management assesses the creditworthiness to relates to reinsurers.
This will have a direct impact of historic reinsurance protection by reviewing credit This risk arises if they are on the reinsurance asset grades provided by rating agencies and other publicly not able to pay amounts in and earnings in the year available information, as well as the concentration full when due in accordance of default.
In addition, the risk within different reinsurers reinsurance groups.
with the terms of the reduction in the level of An analysis of reinsurers by Standard & Poors contract, causing the Group reinsurance due to the default and AM Best ratings is produced and reviewed to incur a financial loss.
may increase the volatility in on a quarterly basis.
Conduct Risk Conduct risk the risk Potentially resulting in Our culture and tone from the top ensures the interests we conduct our activities, reputational issues and of our customers and their fair treatment are paramount.
culturally and operationally, regulatory fine censure.
We have a strong governance framework and our in a manner that Conduct Risk and Customer Committee reviews all is disadvantageous aspects of our customer service.
to our clients and cause Board oversight is ensured by upward reporting of a suite them detriment.
of customer and conduct risk appetite statements and measures.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk the risk A reduction in liquidity The Group continues to monitor its liquidity risk by that the Group, although could have an impact on our considering its operating cash flows, stressed for solvent, does not have ability to meet our financial catastrophe scenarios, dividend payouts, liquidity available sufficient financial commitments as they fall due strains and investment strategy to mitigate this risk.
resources to enable it to meet or restrict our ability to pay The Group also considers the matching of the its obligations as they fall dividends to shareholders.
investment portfolio with its insurance liabilities due or can only secure them to mitigate and manage this risk.
Oversight of the Groups investment strategy and the associated liquidity risk is undertaken by the Investment Committee.
Legal and Regulatory Risk Regulatory or legal There are a number of The Group continues to monitor legal and regulatory intervention or changes ongoing and future regulatory developments in the UK and Europe, through our close the risk that legal or reviews of the general relationship with our regulators the FCA and PRA regulatory reforms could insurance retail sector.
These and other official bodies and the use of proactive risk have a negative impact reviews could have an impact management tools and processes to mitigate our on the Groups financial on the revenue streams that exposure to regulatory risk.
we currently have in place and future revenue streams.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report 27 Operational Risk Risk Impact Mitigation and management Financial crime the risk that Increased exposure to actual A range of preventative, monitoring and detective there is a significant increase or attempted financial crime controls are in place to combat such fraudulent in losses through crime.
activity could result in activity at the key points of entry policy inception financial loss, reputational and claims.
impact or regulatory The monitoring and mitigation of financial crime intervention.
is managed by the Groups financial crime team supported by the rest of the business.
Information security the risk This could have a detrimental The Group has robust systems in place to mitigate of compromise to the integrity, impact on our customers or such risks, including perimeter firewalls and confidentiality or availability staff, on the reputation of the intrusion detection systems, anti-virus protection, of customer or staff personal Group, or on our profitability laptop encryption, logical and physical access information, or of commercially and investor confidence.
restrictions, rigorous vetting of new and existing sensitive information including There is also the potential staff and a clear desk policy.
The Group carries out the risk from cyber attacks such for regulatory intervention training and these controls are rigorously enforced.
as Distributed Denial of Service or fines resulting from such DDoS attacks.
Systems failure the risk that The failure or degradation The Group has systems monitoring and incident the current systems fail to deliver of our key platforms management processes in place to mitigate this risk.
including websites from A key element to the prevention of this risk is a robust which the majority of new change management programme, which is subject business is sourced, to rigorous project management disciplines from compromise of corporate data programme development through to deployment.
or, in particular, the personal The Group has a reportable events process data with which we are that reports and manages any systems failure, entrusted and material which is reported to the Board Risk Committee.
performance failures by key infrastructure suppliers.
Price comparison websites The impact of this could As part of the business strategy the insurance the Group, both directly be a material reduction business continues to retain a high proportion and through its subsidiary in new customers to esure of renewal business and further developed its Gocompare.
com, is dependent or a reduction in conversion offerings to these customers.
on the UK price comparison volumes on Gocompare.
com continues to develop the range market for new business and This could be caused by of products and services it offers to customers.
This is a highly disruption in the market by competitive, but concentrated, competition, new technology, market in which the dynamics changes to consumer could change materially.
This could impact both Gocompare.
com and the car and home insurance market.
This section together with the reports set out on pages 1 to 27 of the Annual Report constitute the Strategic Report.
Signed on behalf of the Board Stuart Vann Darren Ogden Chief Executive Officer Chief Finance Officer 7 March 2016 esure Group Annual Report 2015
