22 Risk management and principal risks Risk management The Board is responsible for prudent oversight of esure Group, The risk appetite forms a fundamental part of the way the ensuring that it is conducted in accordance with sound Group thinks about and assesses risk, setting out the types business principles and with applicable law and regulation.
and level of risk that it is willing to accept or avoid in the This encompasses responsibility to articulate and monitor pursuit of the strategy.
These are considered within our adherence to quantifiable and measurable statements of strategic decisions and business planning but also form the Boards appetite for exposure to all risk types.
The Board a critical element in the way that we think about risk within also ensures that measures are in place to provide effective the business.
This ensures that our staff understand how and objective assurance on the identification and management their day-to-day decisions support the risk appetite and of risk and on the controls in place to mitigate those risks.
This feedback ensures that our risk appetite is cascaded and embedded within the Group.
In order to set boundaries to the acceptance of risk exposures, the Board has set out the following strategic risk statements Risk reporting that underpin our risk appetite and how the Group operates The risk management framework is designed to ensure that see table below.
the Risk Committee receives timely and appropriate reporting on our exposure to existing and emerging risks in each of The Board has set a robust risk management strategy as the core risk categories insurance, market, counterparty an integral element in its pursuit of business objectives and credit, operational, regulatory and liquidity.
Strategic risks in the fulfilment of its obligations to shareholders, regulators, and the reputational consequences of these risk exposures customers and staff.
are considered within this risk reporting.
The Groups risk management framework and ORSA Such reporting is supported by: processes are proportionate to the risks that we face and are organised around the core elements of risk strategy and Updates to the Groups risk registers covering current appetite, risk governance, and the associated risk reporting.
and emerging risks Reports on events that have resulted in actual or potential The Groups risk management framework is dynamic and financial or reputational losses to the Group or its customers continues to be enhanced and developed to ensure it meets the needs of the business.
The results of stress, scenario and sensitivity testing as well as the modelling of our risks within our economic capital model Risk strategy and appetite The Groups risk appetite incorporates a range of quantitative The findings, recommendations and management actions and qualitative measures of risk supporting our strategic arising from reviews conducted by the risk, compliance risk objectives, against which the actual or planned exposures and Internal Audit functions and uncertainties can be monitored.
This monitoring is reflected A key strength of the Groups risk management strategy is the in regular reporting to the Group Executive Committee integration of risk assessment and evaluation into the Groups and the Board Risk Committee.
business operations, planning and capital management.
Strategic risk statements Our goal is to manage volatility within a cyclical market for our Earnings shareholders through targeted growth opportunities, continuous adaptation in our underwriting and a focus on expense management.
Financial Capital and We ensure there are appropriate financial resources in place liquidity to deliver on our corporate and policyholder obligations.
Our brands represent our promise to our customers Reputation and are central to our continued success.
How we treat our customers is at the core of everything we do and, Conduct through our strategy, culture and service delivery, we aim to deliver Non-financial & Customer fair outcomes to our customers.
Our people are what makes us successful and we aim to continue People to invest in our employees, ensuring the Group is a rewarding place to work.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report 23 Risk governance The Group has implemented Solvency II as a standard In accordance with recognised good practice, the Group formula firm: due to the nature of our business this is operates a three lines of defence governance framework.
deemed to appropriately reflect our risks.
The Groups risk governance SIMR aims to increase individual accountability within is underpinned by a risk management function headed by the insurance sector.
The main rules will come into effect the Chief Risk Officer, a member of the executive team on 7 March 2016 and apply to: reporting to the Chief Executive Officer, but with independence assured through direct and independent access to the senior managers who are running insurance companies Chairmen of the Audit and Risk Committees.
and are subject to pre-approval by the PRA for a controlled function The risk strategy, appetite and framework are articulated senior persons who have responsibility for key functions in a suite of policies covering material risks that we face.
and who need to be assessed as being fit and proper Each of these policies is subject to annual review and approval.
by the PRA Regulation certain non-executive directors who carry out specific The UK motor and home markets are regulated by various responsibilities for areas or committees directly relevant bodies, including but not limited to the Prudential Regulation to a firms safety and soundness Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
Following up on the findings from the thematic review in A summary of areas of focus in 2015 can be found below: Complaints Handling in December 2014, the FCA published Solvency II implementation Improving Complaints Handling.
The paper proposed changes to the FCA rules to improve complaints handling Senior Insurance Managers Regime SIMR by relevant firms.
The proposed changes cover: Complaints handling Extending the time period for dealing with complaints Whistleblowing less formally to the end of three business days Solvency II was implemented on 1 January 2016 Requiring firms to send written communication to all and includes the following key aspects: consumers whose complaints are handled by the end Market consistent balance sheets of the three business day period Risk-based capital Making all relevant complaints reportable to the FCA and enhancing the FCA complaints return to include more ORSA granular data Senior management accountability Limiting the costs of calls that consumers make to firms when Supervisory assessment complaining, as well as for other post-contractual calls Changes necessary to implement the Alternative Dispute Resolution Directive Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA Our Board and senior management have confidence Earnings ORSA in how we are embedding our strategic risk objectives.
Capital and liquidity Reputation Conduct and customer There is a clear linkage between People Strategic risk our strategic risk objectives objectives and our risk appetite.
Our strategic decisions and plans are aligned to and Business plan Risk appetite Strategic decisions support our risk appetite.
The risk appetite is fully embedded in all areas of the business.
Reportable Risk register Risk and Key risk events and Emerging and compliance indicators incident risks assessments reviews management esure Group Annual Report 2015 24 Risk management and principal risks continued The FCA has published new rules on whistleblowing In making this statement the Board carried out a robust effective from September 2016 requiring firms to: assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future Appoint a Senior Manager as their whistleblowers champion performance, solvency or liquidity.
Put in place internal whistleblowing arrangements The assessment period of three years has been chosen Inform UK-based employees about the FCA and as it is in line with our business planning horizon and for PRA whistleblowing services the following reasons: Present a report on whistleblowing to the Board We have an annual renewal cycle: which means that three at least annually years provides sufficient scope to see the impact of changes Inform the FCA if it loses an employment tribunal to the business.
with a whistleblower The cyclical nature of the business means that projecting Viability statement for periods much longer than three years creates material In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate uncertainty: however, we do look at longer term strategic Governance Code 2014 the Directors have assessed the developments and emerging risks over longer time periods.
Groups prospects and viability for the three-year period The stress and scenario tests tend to be fully understood to 31 December 2018, taking into account the Groups and forms part of our business as usual position as well as current position and the potential impact of the principal management having appropriate opportunity to implement risks as detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 27. mitigations within this timeframe This is based on the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment as described within the Risk Section on pages 22 to 27: Based on this robust assessment, the Directors confirm the report on this process was submitted to the UK financial that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company services regulator, the PRA.
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment.
This assessment encompasses business planning as a central estimate and variability derived from both the stress and scenario testing and risk modelling.
The Directors consider this to be a robust process for assessing the current and future principal risks facing the Group.
Board and Board Committees Strategy and oversight Board of Directors Setting of and ensuring the adherence to the Company risk strategy and independent Risk Committee Audit Committee risk oversight.
Executive Committees and Management Risk Management Internal Audit Team and Compliance Team outsourced to Mazars LLP Management Committees and Operational Teams 1st Line of Defence 2nd Line of Defence 3rd Line of Defence Operational Business area Risk Management and Compliance Team Internal Audit Risk ownership and management Oversight, challenge, embed, Independent, objective assurance Primary responsibility for the risks that educate and coordination on the internal control environment, we take in the pursuit of our business of Risk and Compliance Activities focusing on the design and operating objectives, and for due observance Design, coordinate and embed a consistent effectiveness of the governance processes, of risk management practices, processes framework for taking risks and monitoring risk management procedures, internal and controls.
compliance, but without being directly control and information systems.
responsible for the assumption of exposure to business risks.
This includes reporting to the Audit Committee and Board on risk management and internal control.
