Principal Risks and Future Prospects During the year the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties that could threaten Foreign & Colonials objective, future performance, liquidity and solvency.
Its future prospects and viability were also considered as an integral part of this assessment in accordance with new requirements under the UK Code.
The principal risks and their mitigations are set out in the table below and The principal risks identified as most relevant to the assessment of the processes for monitoring them are set out on pages 42 and 43. the Companys future prospects and viability were those relating to Note 25 on the accounts reports on the Financial Risk Management of potential investment portfolio under-performance and its effect on the Company.
The risks that affect the Companys ongoing operations share price discount and dividends, as well as threats to security may vary in significance from time to time.
Principal Risks Mitigation Actions taken on Principal Risks in the year Inappropriate business strategy particularly in relation The Board specifically considers business strategy at a formal meeting The Board tightened its discount policy but bought back fewer to investor needs leading to significant pressure on the annually and monitors investor requirements and themes at each Board shares than in 2014.
Marketing campaigns continued throughout share price discount to net asset value per share.
A discount control mechanism has operated over many years.
The the year including advertising across financial and price effectiveness of the marketing strategy is also reviewed at each meeting.
Unchanged throughout the year under review Unfavourable Markets or inappropriate asset allocation, Underlying investment strategies, performance and gearing are reviewed with The Company outperformed its benchmark.
Substantial changes sector and stock selection, currency exposure and use of the Fund Manager at each Board meeting.
Cash, borrowing and derivative in the portfolio have been made in recent years while the focus in gearing and derivatives may give rise to investment underlimits are also monitored.
F&Cs Performance and Risk Oversight team provides 2015 was on the future structure of the Private Equity portfolio.
performance as well as impacting capacity to pay dividends independent oversight on investment risk management for the directly managed Loan interest costs were much lower following the repayment of a to investors.
The portfolio is diversified and the Companys structure enables it to long-term debenture on 31 December 2014. take a long-term view of countries, markets and currencies.
Decreased in the year under review Failure of F&C as the Companys main service provider to The Board regularly reviews the strength of the Managers investment The Board has reviewed F&Cs controls and risk management continue to operate effectively including the loss of key staff.
management and client services resources and meets their risk management structure as part of its annual assessment.
The Manager now team to review internal control and risk reports.
The Managers appointment benefits from the long-term financial strength and policies of its can be terminated at six months notice.
A business continuity plan is in parent company, BMO, and the Board meets senior management Decreased in place.
The Manager structures its recruitment and remuneration packages in at least annually as part of the reappointment process.
the year under review order to retain key staff and works closely with the Board on any significant management changes.
Errors, fraud or control failures at service providers or The Board receives regular control reports from F&C covering risk and compliance The Manager continues to strengthen its Risk, Compliance and loss of data through increasing levels of cyber-threats or including oversight of third party service providers.
The Board has access to F&Cs Internal Control functions as part of the integration of its operations business continuity failure could damage reputation or Head of Business Risk and requires any significant issues directly relevant to the with BMO including IT security.
Supervision of third party service investors interests or result in loss.
Company to be reported immediately.
The Depositary is specifically liable for loss providers has been maintained by F&C and includes assurances of any of the Companys securities and cash held in custody.
regarding IT security and cyber-threat.
The Depositary oversees Increased in custody of investments and cash and reports to the Company in the year under review accordance with the AIFMD.
22 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT When considering the risk of under-performance, the Board Ten Year Horizon assessed and evaluated the following areas through a series of stress tests: Based on its assessment and evaluation of the Companys potential illiquidity of the Companys portfolio: future prospects, the Board has a reasonable expectation the effects of any substantial future falls in investment values and income receipts on the ability to repay and re-negotiate that the Company will be able to continue in operation and borrowings, potential breaches of loan covenants, the meet its liabilities as they fall due over the coming ten years: maintenance of dividend payments and retention of investors: the Companys business model, strategy and the embedded and characteristics listed below have helped define and maintain the potential need for more extensive share buybacks in the the stability of Foreign & Colonial over many decades.
The event of increasing share price volatility and constraints on Board expects this to continue over many more years to come.
The Company has a long-term investment strategy under which The Boards conclusions are set out under the Ten Year Horizon opposite.
it invests mainly in readily realisable, publicly listed securities and which restricts the level of borrowings.
The Companys business model and strategy are not time limited.
Principal Risks Mitigation Actions taken on Principal Risks in the year The Company is inherently structured for long-term Inappropriate business strategy particularly in relation The Board specifically considers business strategy at a formal meeting The Board tightened its discount policy but bought back fewer outperformance, rather than short-term opportunities, with ten to investor needs leading to significant pressure on the annually and monitors investor requirements and themes at each Board shares than in 2014.
Marketing campaigns continued throughout years as a sensible time-frame for measuring and assessing longshare price discount to net asset value per share.
The Company is able to take advantage of its closed-end investment trust structure.
Unfavourable Markets or inappropriate asset allocation, Underlying investment strategies, performance and gearing are reviewed with The Company outperformed its benchmark.
Substantial changes The Company has the ability to hold a proportion of long-term less sector and stock selection, currency exposure and use of the Fund Manager at each Board meeting.
Cash, borrowing and derivative in the portfolio have been made in recent years while the focus in liquid Private Equity investments with ten years being the period over gearing and derivatives may give rise to investment underlimits are also monitored.
which commitments are made and realisations are expected to be performance as well as impacting capacity to pay dividends independent oversight on investment risk management for the directly managed Loan interest costs were much lower following the repayment of a received.
The Company has a long-term borrowing facility and has the ability to secure additional finance in excess of ten years.
There is rigid monitoring of the Companys substantial bank Failure of F&C as the Companys main service provider to The Board regularly reviews the strength of the Managers investment The Board has reviewed F&Cs controls and risk management borrowing covenant headroom.
continue to operate effectively including the loss of key staff.
The Manager now Regular and robust review of revenue and expenditure forecasts team to review internal control and risk reports.
A business continuity plan is in parent company, BMO, and the Board meets senior management is undertaken throughout the year against a backdrop of large place.
order to retain key staff and works closely with the Board on any significant The Company retains title to all assets held by the Custodian which management changes.
are subject to further safeguards imposed on the Depositary.
Errors, fraud or control failures at service providers or The Board receives regular control reports from F&C covering risk and compliance The Manager continues to strengthen its Risk, Compliance and The Company has put in place a business continuity plan.
loss of data through increasing levels of cyber-threats or including oversight of third party service providers.
The Depositary oversees By order of the Board custody of investments and cash and reports to the Company in Simon Fraser accordance with the AIFMD.
Chairman 7 March 2016 Report and Accounts 2015 | 23 The Directors consider that, following advice from the Audit Committee, the Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair balanced and understandable and provides information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
24 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT Report and Accounts 2015 | 25 Directors Simon Fraser Sir Roger Bone KCMG Chairman Appointed to the Board in March 2008.
Prior Appointed to the Board in September 2009, to that he served as British Ambassador to appointed Chairman in May 2010 and is Brazil from 1999 to 2004 and to Sweden Chairman of the Nomination Committee and from 1995 to 1999.
He was an Assistant the Management Engagement Committee.
Under-Secretary of State in the Foreign He is also chairman of the Investor Forum, and Commonwealth Office between 1991 an investor led organisation established and 1995, head of the Economic Relations for the purpose of improving long-term Department there from 1989 to 1991 and returns from investment through collective Political Counsellor at the British Embassy shareholder engagement.
Most of his in Washington DC from 1985 to 1989.
He career was at Fidelity International, where was a visiting fellow at Harvard University in he started as an analyst and spent a 1984 85 and served as a private secretary number of years in Japan, latterly as Chief to the Foreign Secretary between 1982 Investment Officer for the Asia Pacific region.
He was president of Boeing UK He returned to the UK in 1999 to take up from 2005 to 2014.
He was also one of the the position of Chief Investment Officer for Prime Ministers honorary ambassadors for Fidelity International, a position he held until British business from 2010 to 2015.
Other positions included President a non-executive director of ITM Power plc, of Fidelity Internationals European and UK a designer and manufacturer of hydrogen Institutional business and latterly President of energy systems for energy storage and the Investment Solutions Group.
He is also clean fuel production and is also chairman of chairman of The Merchants Trust PLC and is Over-c-ltd, a small high tech company in the a non-executive director of Ashmore Group telecoms sector.
PLC and Fidelity European Values PLC.
Sarah Arkle Stephen Burley Appointed to the Board in March 2011.
Joined the Board in January 2008.
He was She was Vice Chairman of Threadneedle Head of Pensions Investments at Rio Tinto where she was Chief Investment Officer from 1982 until his retirement in March for ten years until her retirement at the end 2007.
He is a former investment adviser of December 2010.
She was instrumental to University College London, the Central in establishing Threadneedles investment Board of Finance of the Church of England process and recruiting a number of the and, until 2010, the BAE Systems Pension firms senior fund managers.
He is a trustee of the Imperial War Sarah moved from stockbroker WI Carr to Graves Endowment Fund.
become a Far East Equity Manager and subsequently became a Director at Allied Dunbar Asset Management, which became part of Threadneedle in May 1994.
She is a non-executive director of Henderson Group PLC and JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC.
26 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
