Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
These risks are described below, together with a brief description of mitigating activity.
Whistle-blowing Our risk management approach All staff have an opportunity to raise matters of concern with Greggs approach to risk management has a number of senior management through our whistle-blowing policy as components, which combine to ensure that significant risks are detailed on page 43, which is advertised across the business.
identified, evaluated, recorded and managed.
Business Assurance Board of Directors The Business Assurance function provides independent internal The Board has ultimate accountability for ensuring that risks are audit coverage for the entire business operation, and also managed appropriately, although it delegates the detailed supports risk management activity across the organisation.
implementation of risk processes and mitigating actions to The Information Security and Compliance Manager now forms management.
Significant risks i. e. those which could prevent part of the team, having previously reported into the Head of IT.
the business from achieving its objectives were they to occur This improves the independence of our IT governance and are considered at each meeting, with the associated controls strengthens the profile of information security within the business.
The Board also debates whether any new or emerging risks require assessment by Audit findings are reported to management and to the Audit management, delegating any such risks to the Risk Committee Committee, whose meetings are all attended by the Head for their consideration.
The Business Assurance team has authority to access all areas of the business, all senior Insurance cover provides a means of mitigation for a number managers and the Chair of the Audit Committee, as required.
of risks facing the business.
On an annual basis, the Board reviews the cover in place and considers whether it is appropriate.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal Through regular reporting, the Board is kept apprised of any risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten issues or business changes which may impact on the its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
The Audit Committee reviews risk These risks are described on the following page, together with management procedures at least annually, and reports its a brief description of mitigating activity.
findings through to the Board.
Greggs is exposed to a wider range of risks than those listed.
Operating Board However, these are the risks which are considered to be The Operating Board supports the Chief Executive in the most important to the business future development, implementing the Boards decisions, and comprises Directors performance or position.
The risks identified are those to which representing each of the organisations main functions: the Board considers there is a disproportionate exposure, relative Finance, Retail, Commercial, Supply Chain, People, Business to the food-on-the-go sector.
The impact of these risks occurring Development and Property, and Corporate Affairs.
has been considered in developing the scenarios tested as part Responsibility for the day-to-day management of risks sits of the financial viability statement on the following page.
All key strategic risks identified by the business are owned by an Operating Board member.
Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to management, or deemed to be less material currently, may also Risk Committee have an adverse effect on the business.
The Risk Committee is a management committee meets on Greggs exposure to risks evolves as we take mitigating actions, or a quarterly basis to discuss risks in greater detail than can be as new risks emerge.
The following subjects have been removed done during Operating Board meetings.
It comprises the Chief from our principal risks list this year, as we believe our exposure is Executive, the Operating Board, and a number of heads of no more significant than other comparable businesses in our sector: business functions.
Its responsibilities include analysing, assessing, measuring and understanding the Companys risk Information security and cyber risk.
exposure, as well as developing an appropriate risk Market saturation.
management strategy for the business.
Significant areas of concern identified by this body will be reported through However, the Board continues to oversee and receive reports to the Board, generally via the Audit Committee.
Although on the management of these risk areas in line with our normal the groups remit extends to all risks faced by the Company, business practice.
In particular, the Companys approach to it will focus on key strategic risks and their associated controls.
cyber risk is driven by a cross-functional working group, which sets the priorities and monitors progress.
Both the Audit The Risk Committee also considers new and emerging risks Committee and the Board receive reports on information as a standing agenda item, including those identified by the security and cyber risk, ensuring that an appropriate level Board of Directors.
of risk management is in place.
24 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts The following risks are in no particular order.
Area of principal risk or uncertainty Mitigating actions and controls Risk rating Business change Greggs is implementing a strategic The project delivery is overseen by the Operating plan to transform the business from a decentralised Board, under the guidance of a project sponsor, No change traditional bakery to a centralised modern food-on-theproviding robust governance.
Regular updates are go brand.
This involves a major programme of business provided to the Board, to monitor progress against change involving restructuring, new systems, increased clearly defined timelines and financial forecasts.
capital investment and a major overhaul of every aspect of the business.
Progress may not be in line with plans, disruption could occur and financial returns may fall short of expectation.
Product quality and safety Greggs is unusual in the Procedures are in place throughout our operations food-on-the go sector in that it is , to ensure that food safety is maintained.
These No change owning its own manufacturing and supply chain procedures are supported by robust audit processes, operations.
In addition, we freshly prepare food on the both internally, and by regulatory bodies.
This exposes us to greater risk in ensuring good food safety than many of our competitors.
Food scare Greggs may suffer from a loss of customer The majority of products for sale in our shops have confidence due to a major food scare beyond its been manufactured by our staff in our bakeries.
Dependent upon the nature of this, it may are carried out to confirm the integrity of our products have a disproportionate impact on Greggs.
and ingredients as part of routine processes.
Loss of production Some of our products are Contingency plans are in place for our supply sites, and produced in one location and distributed nationwide.
Our property insurers carry No change Any disruption to supply would have a significant out annual site inspections, which help to protect our impact on our customers.
We have alternative supply sources for key products, and these are periodically tested.
Market pressures Changing shopping habits driven Greggs operates a leasehold shop estate with typically by the convenience of new customer channels and five-year break provisions, allowing us to change Improving locations may have a greater impact on Greggs due to locations in line with customer traffic trends.
In our historical bias to shops located on high streets.
addition, new shops are predominantly opened in locations away from the high street to offer our services to customers who are away from home for reasons other than shopping.
Consumer trends Increasing customer concern with We have a proactive programme to improve the health and nutrition may affect demand for some of our nutritional qualities of our traditional products where No change traditional bakery product ranges.
In addition we are extending range choice to include healthier options branded `Balanced Choice` which is growing rapidly.
damaging given the Companys vertical integration in that the Viability statement cost of the internal supply chain cannot be reduced quickly.
The Directors have assessed the Companys prospects and viability taking into account its current position, plans and In order to stress-test the financial resilience of the Company, principal risks.
The Company remains cash-generative and has scenarios were created to simulate the impact of significant no debt other than normal trading liabilities to creditors and sales declines.
The Directors considered the impact of a ten the obligations arising under commercial leases.
In assessing per cent annual sales decline, and also the impact of a the Companys viability the Board has considered potential significant one-year reduction resulting from a brand-damaging scenarios that have been envisaged to reflect the occurrence event.
In each case the Directors reviewed the mitigating of the principal risks that the business faces.
actions that would be necessary to protect the Companys liquidity.
These scenarios represent more extreme In carrying out its assessment the Board has reviewed the circumstances than the Company has ever experienced.
three-year operational and financial plan to 2018.
The Board believes that this viability assessment period is appropriate given Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a its experience of the Companys cycle of strategic plan renewal reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to and the fast-moving nature of the food-on-the-go market.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their detailed assessment.
The principal risks to which the Company is exposed ultimately affect the ability of its shops to trade successfully, either through an interruption to supply or because of a loss of confidence in the Greggs brand.
A significant loss of sales would be particularly Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25
