40 Strategic report Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Managing our risks The Board sets risk appetite, reviews risks, both existing and emerging and considers risk when reviewing the Groups strategy and in meeting its objectives.
Our approach vIaBIlIty StateMent The Board has established a culture of effective risk management through the The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will identification, assessment, mitigation continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the next three years.
and monitoring of risks throughout Three years is considered to constitute an appropriate period as it is the period the Group.
The Board also sets risk covered by the most recent strategic plan reviewed by the Board.
The Directors appetite, reviews risks, both existing assessment has been made with reference to the Groups current financial position and emerging and considers risk when and prospects, the Groups strategy, the Boards risk appetite and the Groups reviewing the Groups strategy and in principal risks and how these are managed, as detailed in the Strategic Report.
There are regular briefings to the Board, Directors and senior management, The Board has ultimate responsibility which include the progress of new strategies being implemented e. g. product for the Groups Risk Management diversification or technology enhancements and any risks and opportunities that Framework and delegates the oversight may emerge.
of this to the Risk Committee.
This Committee is a formal sub-committee The strategy and associated principal risks underpin the Groups Three year Plan of the Board with its own defined Terms and stress testing, which the Directors review on an annual basis.
The current Three of Reference.
year Plan is constructed on the commercial activities of the trading entities, with detailed analysis of income and expenditure and resulting free cash generated, The principal purpose of the Risk including explanations of material year on year increases or reductions, over the Committee is to advise the Board on term of the plan.
The Three year Plan also contains detailed analysis of the income risk management issues, recommend drivers and means of managing expenses in line with the Group overall appetite.
the Group framework of risk limits and risk appetite to the Board for approval The strategic risks that align to the Groups Three year Plan are assessed as being and oversee the risk management within appetite, with adequate and effective controls and efficient monitoring.
This, arrangements of the Company and coupled with the culture and values demonstrated by executive and senior leadership Group generally.
The Committee across the Group, provides the rationale for the Board to maintain the reasonable ensures that the material risks facing expectation that the Groups strategy is sustainable for the next three years.
the Group have been identified and that appropriate arrangements are in place to manage, mitigate and monitor those risks effectively and also ensures that responsibility for managing, mitigating and monitoring risk in each of the regulated subsidiaries has been effectively delegated to the respective company boards.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 41 Monitoring and quality assurance Risk identification and Internal control framework procedures are embedded in front assessment The Group has an internal control line operations with clearly prescribed A robust Risk Management Framework framework based on a three lines of breach reporting and escalation defence approach, which is mirrored is used at Group level and within processes in place.
Second line Retail and Underwriting to ensure in the trading entities.
The three lines oversight is provided by independent are comprised of: there is a consistent approach to risk and appropriately resourced Risk management across the Group.
First Line: Business Operations: and Compliance functions.
Third line perform day-to-day risk oversight is conducted by an internal There are two approaches to Risk management and compliance audit function, managed and resourced Management: monitoring activity: via a third-party relationship with Grant Bottom up Business Risk is aimed Thornton UK LLP.
The effectiveness provide management assurance, at the day to day operations of Retail of the Groups control functions is inform the Audit and Risk and Underwriting and is linked to the overseen by the respective Board Committees by identifying risks trading entities annual budget: and of Directors and Committees of the and business improvement actions, Company, Retail and Underwriting implement and embed controls and Top down Strategic Risk focuses on as appropriate.
lower frequency, higher impact risks reporting on progress.
that could have a significant impact Second Line: Oversight Functions: Internal control and risk on the Group and or the trading set boundaries by drafting management entities successfully delivering the and implementing policies and Three year Plan.
The Groups governance structure, procedures to align practices to combined with embedded controls defined strategy, provide guidance Strategic Risk is reviewed and and processes, enable executive and direction on those policies management to define the parameters challenged by the Risk Committees and procedures, introduce best of the Company, Retail and Underwriting.
within which it implements Board practice, monitor policy execution approved strategies, monitors These Committees receive timely, up and provide oversight of business to date commentary on the material outcomes, and proactively identifies processes and risks: risk and issues, as well as initiating movement of risk, whether influenced by external conditions or events, or by oversee business operations and mitigations as required and reporting provide guidance and assurance: to the Board.
any material shift in Business Risk that is linked to the successful delivery of comprise Compliance and Risk Strategy is implemented by suitably the Three year Plan.
Management functions: experienced people in the trading Third Line: Independent Assurance: entities, incentivised appropriately and Business Risk is overseen by Risk offers independent challenge and Committees at an operational level that guided by strong corporate culture and assurance by internal and external values across the Group.
The ability are comprised of Executive Directors auditors: and senior management.
Reports to identify and respond quickly to on risk profiles by department risks, evolving or emerging risks and issues is provides independent, objective controls, key risk indicators and internal supported by an agile environment that assurance and consulting activities or external events are provided by encourages independent and objective designed to add value and improve the risk management function for challenge, focused on escalation the Companys operations, bring a independent review and challenge on a and resolution.
Timely, high quality systematic, disciplined approach regular basis.
management information is generated to evaluate and improve the to enable appropriate monitoring, effectiveness of risk management The implementation of a uniform oversight and decision making based control and governance processes.
approach to the governance and on sound proposals and judgement.
application of the Risk Management The structures, controls and processes All three lines of defence have specific Frameworks enables there to be a in place need to support the operations tasks within the internal governance direct link between risks in the trading of the Company and must not be framework and are accountable to entities and the Group.
The standard onerous or ineffectual.
These should either the Audit or Risk Committee and methodology used in the identification, remain appropriate and proportionate ultimately the Board.
The role of these assessment, recording, reporting to the size, nature and complexity of Committees is to monitor and render and monitoring of risk results in a the Company and are therefore regularly opinions on the effectiveness of the cohesive and integrated approach reviewed by executive management Companys internal controls and risk to Risk Management, leverages the and the Boards of the Group and its management.
Risk Committees at subsidiary level trading entities.
and provides effective and consistent assessment of the Groups Risk.
The Group has established various functions and models within the business to ensure effective oversight and compliance, in accordance with the three lines of defence model that is implemented across the Group and its trading entities.
42 Strategic report Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Managing our risks continued The Group employs a number of Risk management function Internal audit sophisticated validation methodologies There is a consistent Risk Management The remit of the internal audit function and databases to identify potentially Framework throughout the Group, is covered in the Audit Committee fraudulent activity at various points in providing support, advice and report on pages 58 to 60. the application, sale and claims process.
communicating the risk management At the point of quote, the Group focuses strategy.
This framework is approved by compliance on risk scoring and referencing tools the Board upon recommendation of the The Compliance functions within the including data enrichment to identify respective Risk Committees.
It provides trading entities monitor compliance and reduce exposure to potentially a disciplined and structured process with the various regulatory and legal fraudulent applications.
At the point to reduce the potential for internal or requirements the Group is required of sale, the Group again undertakes external events that may detrimentally to comply with, specifically those of the risk scoring supported by a review of affect the Group through proactive risk FCA in the UK and the FSC in Gibraltar.
relational databases and check for any identification, assessment, mitigation, The outcome of this monitoring irregularities in the quotations created monitoring and reporting.
Through helps to provide input into training, known as quote manipulation.
During a set of continuous and developing marketing and other documents used the claims process, the Group reviews processes applied throughout the by the businesses to ensure they meet relational databases and uses external Group, the function ensures all known those requirements and also ensures referencing and investigations to and emerging risks are addressed and appropriate dialogue is maintained uncover fraudulent claims.
The strength mitigated in line with risk appetite.
of its Insight team is recognised in the industry and has been the recipient The Risk Management Framework The Group continues to invest of a number of industry awards.
comprises risk registers that contain appropriately in its compliance oversight details of risks, controls, key risk function to ensure that it remains Policies and procedures indicators, actions related to risk effective in monitoring and providing To maintain good outcomes for all mitigation and ownership of each risk.
assurance that appropriate regulatory The framework is constantly developed stakeholders it is imperative that adherence and customer conduct to include Strategic, Business and everyone is made aware of and complies outcomes are being met.
Stress and reverse with legislation, regulation and best function provides appropriate and stress testing and scenario analysis is practice.
To ensure stakeholders effective advisory guidance to the regularly undertaken and reviewed by are treated equally and compliance business as well providing second the respective Committees.
For example, with legislation, regulation and best line monitoring of operations.
cashflow forecasts have been stressed practice guidance is maintained to tested using the principal financial and high standards, guidance and direction Fraud operational risks listed on page 43 is provided to all colleagues through The Group has a market-leading counterincluding reductions in premium and policies and procedures.
fraud capability, which to date has other income, retention rates and new generated significant cost savings and business volumes, deterioration in loss Policies that are critical to the Groups which supports demand for participation ratio and possible failure of a reinsurer.
overall control and governance structures by its insurer panel and reinsurance Additional focus has been applied to are reserved for formal Board review partners.
The Groups counter-fraud ensure compliance with the requirements and approval.
These policies typically operations team, Insight, operates as an of the recent implementation of the cover legal and regulatory requirements integrated, comprehensive risk selection Solvency II Directive.
They also help and loss validation division.
Insight to communicate and embed Board includes a dedicated team including Risk management does not end with approved risk appetite.
The three lines new business review agents, analysts, the reporting of risk events, it is an of defence model ensures that the intelligence operatives, claims handlers, ongoing and iterative process whereby standards and appetites, as defined by former police officers and field based the organisational risk profiles of the these policies, function as intended and investigators.
The Groups counter-fraud Company and its trading subsidiaries are provide expected outcomes.
Under the operations help to improve the Groups continually reviewed by Risk Committees three lines of defence model, assurance counter-fraud abilities and results.
testing and evidence gathering on business was a founding member of the aspects of how the business is managed Insurance Fraud Bureaus Application is undertaken by the internal auditor Fraud Steering Committee and has a very who reports to the Board via the Audit strong relationship with the Insurance Committee.
Day-to-day responsibility Fraud Enforcement Department.
for implementing policies and procedures is the remit of senior management whose operational decisions take into account risk and how this can be controlled effectively.
Board approved polices are reviewed and approved at least once a year.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 43 To ensure that a consistent and robust To be better placed to demonstrate The Directors have carried out a robust approach to governance is maintained and evidence compliance with Solvency assessment of the principal risks facing throughout the Group, a number of II, the systems of governance, risk and the company group, including those policies are approved by the Companys compliance functions in Underwriting that would threaten its business model, Board and are proposed to be adopted have been enhanced.
future performance, solvency or liquidity.
in full by the trading subsidiaries.
The Group considers its principal risks as follows: commercial performance risk includes reinsurance risk, market risk and reserving risk : The risk of loss resulting from failure to meet the Groups strategic objectives and deliver the Three Year Plan.
liquidity and capital risk: The risk of loss resulting from an inability to meet financial commitments as they fall due.
Operational risk: The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems and external events.
PRIncIPal RISKS anD UnceRtaIntIeS Principal risks Key monitors commercial performance risk Inability to manage reserving risk Underwriting Regular internal and external reserving audits reporting to the Board of Underwriting and external actuaries that report to Underwritings Reserving Committee.
Market risk Constant market assessment and the implications for assets under management.
Reinsurance risks Underwriting Regular reviews of reinsurance arrangements and the stability of external partners that provide reinsurance programmes.
Changes to the way that consumers purchase general insurance Assessing consumer preferences, and in particular the use products less use of PCW of PCW for the purchase of general insurance products against our planning assumptions.
liquidity and capital risk Insufficient capital to service debt arrangements Group Monitoring cash flow from trading entities and free cash position of the Group.
Insufficient capital to meet Solvency II requirements Underwriting Management of own funds in accordance with Solvency II and Board reviews in Underwriting.
Monitoring and measurement of risk and capital implications through stress, reverse stress and scenario testing, as captured in Underwritings Own Risk and Solvency Assessment.
Insufficient capital to meet regulatory requirements Retail Annual stress testing and management of finances in accordance with Group plans.
Operational risk Business Continuity events as a result of systems, property Regular reviews of resilience risks, contingent back up capability, or supplier failure Underwriting and Retail system stability and supplier continuity plans.
Insufficient resources to meet the volume demand and deliver Robust and real time resource monitoring and long-term planning the technical and professional services to meet growth plans and continue to deliver a refreshingly straightforward claims and service experience.
Reliance on third-party suppliers to provide customer facing Ongoing supplier relationship and performance management, services, and technology capability with regular due diligence reviews.
Information Security breaches Constant IT infrastructure monitoring, data assessment and perimeter testing.
Increased exposure to claims fraud could increase claims Dedicated counter-fraud team that deploys effective and counterrelated expenditure fraud techniques.
44 Strategic report Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Managing our risks continued exteRnal RISKS Risk Impact Mitigation and movement in the year Adverse economic conditions economic stress Status: Stable could reduce the opportunity Failure to deliver the Groups The Group and trading entity Boards regularly consider the to deliver the strategic plans strategy due to unforeseen investment portfolios managed in the respective trading entities and or reduce the income from economic changes.
against the economic outlook and its risk appetite.
The strategy is to continue to grow the home product whilst keeping Whilst the car insurance industry a watchful eye on the economy and the longer term impacts for the has been relatively unaffected Groups product strategy.
by economic downturn, as the The economic situation and forecasting has been monitored and Group diversifies into home assessed against the strategic plan.
products, more of its product exposure will be subject to the effects of a sustained economic downturn.
The regulatory landscape is Regulatory change Status: Stable Changes to the regulatory constantly being reformed and The Group has an effective regulatory horizon scanning capability challenged which may introduce environment that introduces to review the potential implications for the Group and more inhibitors for income generation constraints that reduce the importantly across its regulated trading entities.
In addition the income drivers from general in the general insurance industry.
trading entities continue to foster good working relationships with insurance.
their various regulators, and take the opportunity to embrace regulatory change early and, where appropriate, adjust the strategic The Group strategy is based on plans to accommodate that change.
Retail is often engaged in the current regulatory regime consultations with the FCA, providing its views on regulatory reform and guidelines.
Any material and gives the Group early insight and opportunity to contribute shift in the regulations that towards the shape of future regulation.
apply to general insurance could impact the commercial During the year the Group has invested in developing its plans of the Group.
governance, risk and control in Underwriting in preparation for Solvency II.
Within Retail and Underwriting, Risk and Compliance teams have been supplemented with additional resource and capability to strengthen the second line of defence.
The Groups ability to deliver Operational risk Status: Stable its strategic plan could be Climate change that results Underwriting adopts a prudent approach to the risk accepted compromised in the event in increased frequency and and the pricing used reduces this risk.
In addition the industry of increased claims frequency severity of claims that reduces wide implications of increased claims as a result of climate change and or severity.
the commercial performance of would probably result in premium inflation across the market.
Maintaining the prudent underwriting approach will ensure that Hastings protects its revenue generation whilst minimising the cost implications for claims.
Reduces or restricts the Market Status: Stable Groups market share resulting The Group has established an effective governance, risk and conditions risk in an impaired commercial compliance approach that provides for the identification, Competition in the insurance performance.
assessment, mitigation and monitoring of risks and highlights areas market increases.
of potential conflict with the various regulations that apply to the Group or its trading entities.
This includes a targeted compliance monitoring programme that specifically addresses regulatory risks and controls.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 45 InteRnal RISKS Risk Impact Mitigation and movement in the year commercial risk The Group either incurs Status: Stable additional expenses or is unable Commercial performance does The Group, through the governance, risk and compliance not meet Group expectations or to generate sufficient income.
functions, coupled with targeted Internal Audit in the respective the Three year Plan.
trading entities, assesses the effectiveness of critical processes and procedures on a regular basis.
This is assessed alongside the risk appetite at both Group and trading entity level through the management reporting that is provided at Risk Committees and Boards.
This provides assurance to the Board that risks to commercial performance and the successful delivery of the Three Year Plan are adequately and effectively mitigated.
During 2015 new technology introduced simplified processes for claims handling.
This will be continued with additional technology to further improve policy administration processing, which will also improve the customer experience.
Operational risk A sustained disruption event Status: Improved could materially affect the Group Disruption event in a trading The Group has invested in power and systems resilience entity.
ability to deliver its strategic plans.
programmes that have, and will continue to improve the stability of Retail during a business interruption event.
The Retail Board is satisfied that there are adequate and effective contingency plans and recovery capability to continue to conduct business in the event of a disruption event.
The expansion of UK operating facilities also introduces options for natural resilience across the Retail locations.
Underwriting has adequate and effective resilience plans to continue its operations.
During the year there have been a number of improvements to power supply resilience and technology stability.
The Boards of the respective trading entities review these risks on a regular basis against the risk appetite that is set and is confident that there are mitigating controls and recovery options to ensure that this is a well managed risk.
A supplier, delivering a key service, Operational risk Status: Stable fails leading to the Group not Supplier failure.
The Group has policies and procedures in place to manage and being able to continue to operate monitor the procurement process and contract management in and deliver its strategic objectives.
The Group monitors the key risks in each trading entity and the processes in place to ensure that the risk is within appetite.
The Group has a clear view of the risks associated with suppliers, through the interaction that the respective trading entity Boards have with executive and senior leaders.
Efforts continue to introduce additional controls and monitoring as well as develop the internal capabilities to drive good commercial value from supplier arrangements and minimise the risk.
