Companys particular needs and the foreseeable risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement and loss.
The Company has put in place arrangements with AllBlue, BlueCrest as appropriate and Highbridge for the Company to receive monthly NAVs in relation to AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged and the Underlying Fund and estimated weekly NAVs in relation to the Underlying Fund electronically as soon as they are released, together with certain factsheets produced on each fund and other administrative information and reports.
The purpose of these arrangements is to ensure that the Directors have sufficient timely information to enable them to monitor the Companys investments.
The Risk Committee of the Company meets regularly to review risk reporting information and consider the Companys risk management systems, including consideration of a risk matrix which covers various areas of risk including corporate strategy, accuracy of published information, compliance with laws and regulations, relationships with service providers and investment and business activities.
The Board considers that the Company has adequate and effective systems in place to identify, mitigate and manage the primary risks to which the Company is exposed.
Highbridge Capital Management is the investment manager of HCC and acts as investment manager of the Company, for which it is paid a fee from HCC.
BlueCrest is the investment manager of AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged.
Administration and Secretarial duties for the Company are performed by JTC.
The Board considers that the systems and procedures employed by the Administrator and other service providers provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal controls is in place.
The Directors of the Company clearly define the duties and responsibilities of their agents and advisors.
The appointment of agents and advisors is conducted by the Board after consideration of the quality of the parties involved and the Management and Remuneration Committee monitors their on-going performance and contractual arrangements.
The Board has also specified which matters are reserved for a decision by the Board and which matters may be delegated to its agents and advisers.
Specific matters reserved exclusively for the decision of the Board include the variation of terms on which an overdraft facility is used to finance operating costs and the invocation of any premium or discount control mechanisms.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The principal risks associated with the Company are: Operational risk.
The Board is ultimately responsible for all operational facets of performance including cash management, asset management, regulatory and listing obligations.
The Company has no employees and so enters into a series of contracts legal agreements with a series of service providers Page 30 v. 2.7 to ensure both operational performance and the regulatory obligations are met.
The Company uses well established, reputable and experienced service providers and their continued appointment is assessed at least annually.
The Board is responsible for the investment policy but, due to the nature of the Company, the Board has little discretion in such management.
The success of the Company depends on the diligence and skill of the investment manager of the Companys primary investment, the Underlying Fund.
There is a risk that any underperformance of funds in which the Companys capital is invested would lead to a reduction of the net asset value or of the share price rating.
The Board formally monitors the investment performance each quarter, and intends to meet with the investment manager on a regular basis and attend regular investment update calls to further supplement the Boards knowledge and understanding of the investment process and strategy.
The share price is continually monitored and, if appropriate, the Board have the discretion to make a quarterly tender offer to shareholders.
Furthermore, the Board also consider whether any additional control measures need to be implemented, including the commencement of a buyback programme.
The articles of the Company adopted on 24 February 2016 also include a provision that a continuation vote will be held in 2021.
Concentration risk: The Companys principal exposure is to the Underlying Fund, with additional exposure to AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged through its creditor interests in these funds and, therefore, the Company is exposed to concentration risk through this fund.
The Board considers that the Company is highly diversified in its exposures, both to the funds underlying AllBlue, the Underlying Fund, and to the range of individual positions and exposures of the Underlying Fund.
The Board believes that this mitigates the concentration risk.
The Board actively monitors the exposures to the Underlying Fund, AllBlue, and AllBlue Leveraged.
Leverage risk: The Company does not undertake structural borrowings but will not maintain exactly 1:1 economic exposure to the Underlying Fund at all times because of factors including, but not limited to, exposure to AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged pending the distribution of all proceeds from the compulsory redemption of all outside investors effective 4 January 2016, share issuance and buybacks and general expenses.
Neither HCC nor AllBlue undertake direct structural leverage.
AllBlue Leveraged sought to maintain a position which is approximately 2x leveraged to AllBlue.
This leverage may not have been constant because of changes to the leverage facility made available to AllBlue Leveraged.
The Board monitored the performance of the Company against the performance of AllBlue and will continue to do so against the performance of the Underlying Fund.
Leverage exists in the investments of the Underlying Fund and AllBlue including through formal borrowing facilities, loans by the funds prime brokers for the purchase or sale of securities or embedded in derivative positions.
Some of the investments will be exposed to significant gross leverage.
