The Committees primary focus is around investment risk in its broadest sense, including elements such as counterparty risk and credit risk.
The Committees work has focused on two levels: 1 the direct exposures of the Company itself, for instance to AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged and cash counterparts: and 2 the exposures embedded within AllBlue, its investment characteristics and the risks associated with owning AllBlue The Committee meets regularly and has, over the course of the year under review has, spent time considering the scope and mandate of its operations, reviewing key documentation, regularly reviewing key reporting and interacting with BlueCrest and JTC to examine and understand the risks that the Company is exposed to at both levels.
Following the investment into the Underlying Fund, this work will continue in relation to that entity and to Highbridge.
Further information relating to the work of the Risk Committee is explained in the Risk Committee report on page 37.
BRIBERY The Directors have undertaken to operate the business in an honest and ethical manner and accordingly take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
The key components of this approach are implemented as follows: The Board is committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all its business dealings and relationships: The Company will implement and enforce effective procedures to counter bribery: and The Company requires all its service providers and advisors to adopt equivalent or similar principles.
INTERNAL CONTROLS & RISK MANAGEMENT REVIEW The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board confirms that there is an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the significant risks faced by the Company.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, carries out an annual review of the internal financial controls of the Company.
In addition, ISAE 3402 or equivalent reports have been obtained from the relevant service providers where available to verify these reviews.
The Management and Remuneration Committee also conducts regular reviews of the Companys service providers.
The internal controls are designed to meet the Page 29 v. 2.7
