Report of the Directors: Risk continued Top and emerging risks affected by a prolonged or severe slowdown in regional Top and emerging risks economic growth or contraction in global trade and Our approach to identifying and monitoring top and capital flows as a consequence.
emerging risks is described on page 103.
Our current HSBCs results could be impacted by a prolonged period top and emerging risks are as follows: of low oil prices, particularly in conjunction with a low inflation environment and or low or negative interest Externally driven rates.
Economic outlook and capital flows The intensification of fragmentation risks in the EU could Geopolitical risk have both political and economic consequences for Europe.
Turning of the credit cycle Mitigating actions Regulatory developments with adverse impact on business model and profitability We closely monitor economic developments in key markets and sectors with the aim of ensuring trends Regulatory focus on conduct of business and are identified, the implications for specific customers, financial crime customer segments or portfolios are assessed, and Dispute risk appropriate mitigating action which may include revising key risk appetite metrics or limits is taken Regulatory commitments and consent orders as circumstances evolve.
Cyber threat and unauthorised access to systems We use internal stress testing and scenario analysis as well as regulatory stress test programmes to evaluate Economic outlook and capital flows the impact of macroeconomic shocks on our businesses and portfolios.
Analyses undertaken on our oil and gas Economic growth remained subdued in 2015, with a number portfolio and mainland China exposures are discussed of headwinds adversely affecting both developed and on page 117. emerging market countries.
The slowdown of the mainland Chinese economy has Geopolitical risk dampened global trade flows and caused volatility in Our operations and portfolios are exposed to risks arising currency and global stock markets.
Market concerns persist from political instability, civil unrest and military conflict in as to the scale of the slowdown and the potential for further many parts of the world.
depreciation of the renminbi and emerging market In the Middle East, the intervention of Russia and the rise of currencies.
the terrorist group, Daesh, have added to an already complex Oil and gas prices fell further during 2015 and early 2016 as a civil war in Syria and further destabilised Iraq.
These are result of continuing global supply and demand imbalances, conflicts which show few signs of resolution.
Daesh has raising the risk that any recovery in oil prices over the proved capable of carrying out attacks in neighbouring medium term will be even more gradual than currently countries and further afield.
The lifting of sanctions following expected.
Although oil importers benefit from low prices, a deal between Iran and the five permanent members of the low oil prices increase fiscal and financing challenges for UN Security Council on the countrys nuclear programme has exporters and accentuate deflationary risks.
done little to calm regional tensions.
Emerging market economies have been affected by falling Violence in Ukraine has abated but the conflict in the east of commodity prices, the economic slowdown in mainland the country has not been resolved.
Sanctions imposed by the China and a vulnerability to monetary policy normalisation US and EU against the Russian government, institutions and in the US.
This has led to steep depreciation in several key individuals have damaged the Russian economy.
emerging market currencies against the US dollar and European states are experiencing heightened political substantial capital outflows.
tension, reflecting concerns over migration, fears of The economic recovery in the eurozone remains fragile, terrorism and the possibility that the UK may vote to exit the driven by a combination of low oil prices, a weak euro, EU following a referendum.
An exit could have a significant slowing growth and loose monetary policy.
Populist parties impact on UK, European and global macroeconomic are in the ascendancy in several EU countries, helped by the conditions, as well as substantial political ramifications.
subdued economic backdrop as well as other issues such In Asia, territorial disputes between Japan and China and as migration.
A referendum on the UKs EU membership other states have strained diplomatic relations and are is expected to occur within the lifetime of the current testing the resolve of the US to defend freedom of Parliament, and may be held as early as mid-2016 see navigation.
While the risk of Greece exiting Potential impact on HSBC the EU has faded, the implementation of required structural reforms could prove politically challenging.
Our results are subject to the risk of loss from physical conflicts or terrorist attacks, unfavourable political Potential impact on HSBC developments, currency fluctuations, social instability We earn a significant proportion of our profits from and changes in government policies in the jurisdictions our operations in Asia.
Our results could be adversely in which we operate.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 110 Mitigating actions Physical conflicts or terrorist attacks could expose our staff to physical risk and or result in physical damage to We closely monitor economic developments in key our assets and disruption to our operations.
markets and sectors, taking portfolio actions where The effect of a UK exit from the EU on HSBC would necessary including enhanced monitoring or reducing depend on the manner in which the exit occurs.
A disorderly exit could force changes to HSBCs operating We stress test those portfolios of particular concern to model, affect our ability to access ECB and high value identify sensitivity to loss, with management actions euro payments, and affect our transaction volumes due taken to control appetite where necessary.
to possible disruption to global trade flows.
Where customers are either individually or collectively Mitigating actions assessed, regular portfolio reviews are undertaken for sensitive portfolios to ensure that individual customer We continuously monitor the geopolitical outlook, or portfolio risks are understood and that the level of in particular in countries where we have material facilities offered and our ability to manage through any exposures and or a physical presence.
Our internal credit risk ratings of sovereign counterparties Regulatory developments with adverse impact on take geopolitical factors into account and drive our business model and profitability appetite for conducting business in those countries.
Where necessary, we adjust our country limits and Financial service providers continue to face stringent exposures to reflect our risk appetite and mitigate risks and costly regulatory and supervisory requirements, as appropriate.
particularly in the areas of capital and liquidity management, conduct of business, financial crime, operational structures We run internal stress tests and scenario analyses, and the integrity of financial services delivery.
Government including reverse stress tests, on our portfolios that take intervention and control over financial institutions both on a into account geopolitical scenarios, such as conflicts in sector-wide basis and individually, together with measures countries where we have a significant presence, or to reduce systemic risk, may significantly affect the political developments that could disrupt our operations, competitive landscape locally, regionally and or globally including the potential effect of a UK exit on our business for some or all of the Groups businesses.
may be introduced with different, potentially conflicting Turning of the credit cycle requirements and to differing timetables by different regulatory regimes.
Regulatory changes may affect our The long-anticipated move by the US Federal Reserve Board activities, both of the Group as a whole and of some or all FRB to raise interest rates and the slowdown in mainland of our principal subsidiaries.
These changes include: Chinas economy, which is expected to continue, have increased risk aversion in global markets.
This tendency the UKs Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2013, has deepened since the turn of 2016, with market volatility which requires the ring-fencing of our UK retail banking increasing.
In 2015, emerging markets experienced net activities from wholesale banking, together with the capital outflows for the first time since 1988, with several structural separation of other activities required by major currencies at decade-plus lows against the US dollar US legislation and rules including the Volcker Rule and global corporate defaults rose to the highest since 2009. implemented in December 2013 under the Dodd-Frank 2016 could see an intensification of these trends and the Act, and potential further changes under the European appearance of stress in a wide array of credit segments, Commissions Banking Structural Reform Regulation particularly if monetary policy is tightened quickly, sentiment which proposes similar structural reform for larger EU regarding China worsens and oil prices fail to recover.
The banks as well as structural changes in other jurisdictions: combination of these factors with substantial amounts of revisions in the regime for the operation of capital external refinancing being due in emerging markets in markets, notably mandatory central clearing of over 2016-18 increases the risk of sharper and more protracted the counter OTC derivatives and mandatory margin volatility.
requirements for non-cleared derivatives under the Dodd-Frank Act, the EUs European Market Infrastructure Potential impact on HSBC Regulation EMIR and similar local measures being Impairment allowances or losses could begin to rise from progressed in Hong Kong, Singapore and Canada: their historical lows in 2014 and 2015 if the credit quality of our customers is affected by less favourable global economic conditions in some markets.
There may be impacts on the delinquency and losses in some portfolios which may be impacted by worsening macroeconomic conditions and their possible effects on particular geographies or industry sectors.
Particular portfolios such as oil and gas may come under particular strain which is partly cyclical and partly driven by geopolitical concerns.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 111 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Top and emerging risks Potential impact on HSBC those arising from the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation Directive MiFID II, which includes Proposed changes in and or the implementation of mandatory trading of derivatives on organised venues, regulations including mandatory central clearing of OTC enhanced transparency and reporting requirements, derivatives, EMIR, ring-fencing and similar requirements, controls on high frequency and algorithmic trading, MiFID II, the Volcker Rule, recovery and resolution plans, changes to the use of dealing commissions and potential tax information sharing initiatives and findings from future restrictions on the ability of non-EU Group competition orientated enquiries and investigations may companies to provide certain services to EU based clients.
affect the manner in which we conduct our activities and Aspects of MiFID II also further enhance protections for how the Group is structured.
investors in line with many regulators focus on the wider Requirements for higher levels of capital or TLAC may conduct of business and delivery of fair outcomes for increase the funding costs for the Group and reduce our customers: return on equity.
changes aimed at promoting effective competition in the Mandatory central clearing of OTC derivatives also brings interests of consumers, including investigations ordered new risks to HSBC in its role as a clearing member, as we by the UK Competition and Markets Authority and work will be required to underwrite losses incurred by central to increase competition more generally: clearing counterparties from the default of other clearing the recommendations arising out of the Final Report members and their clients.
Hence central clearing brings on the Fair and Effective Financial Markets Review with it a new element of interconnectedness between undertaken by the Bank of England, which include clearing members and clients which we believe may changes to market conduct rules and forward looking increase rather than reduce our exposure to systemic risk.
supervision in the operation of wholesale financial Increased regulatory scrutiny of conduct of business markets in the UK: and management accountability may affect the industry continued focus in the UK and elsewhere on matters in areas such as employee recruitment and retention, relating to management accountability, institutional product pricing and profitability in both retail and culture, employee conduct and increased obligations wholesale markets.
HSBCs businesses may be affected by on market abuse and whistleblowing.
In the UK, this these developments.
includes implementing the individual accountability These measures have the potential to increase our cost regime and wider recommendations made by the of doing business and curtail the types of business we Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards and can carry out, which may adversely affect future the activities of the Banking Standards Board: profitability.
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Basel Committee initiatives to enhance the risk sensitivity and Mitigating actions robustness of the standardised approaches, to minimise We are engaged closely with governments and regulators reliance on internal models, and to incorporate capital in the countries in which we operate to help ensure that floors in the Basel capital framework: the new requirements are considered properly and can the implementation of the Capital Requirements Directive be implemented in an effective manner.
CRD IV, notably the UK application of the capital We have enhanced our governance around central framework and its interaction with Pillar 2: clearing counterparties and appointed specialists to proposals from the Financial Stability Board for global manage the associated liquidity and collateral risks.
systemically important banks G-SIBs to hold minimum We continue to enhance and strengthen governance and levels of capital and debt as total loss absorbing resourcing more generally around regulatory change capacity TLAC, together with the Bank of Englands management and the implementation of required consultation on UK implementation of MREL for further measures to actively address this ongoing and significant details, see Capital on page 239 : agenda of regulatory change.
requirements flowing from arrangements for the Regulatory focus on conduct of business and resolution strategy of the Group and its individual financial crime operating entities, which may have different effects in different countries: and Financial service providers are at risk of regulatory sanctions or fines related to conduct of business and financial crime.
the continued risk of further changes to regulation The incidence of regulatory proceedings against financial relating to taxes affecting financial service providers, service firms has become more common-place and may including financial transaction taxes and ongoing increase in frequency due to increased media attention and implementation of initiatives to share tax information higher expectations from prosecutors and the public, with a such as the Common Reporting Standard introduced consequent increase also in civil litigation arising from or by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and relating to issues which are subject to regulatory Development OECD.
Regulators in the UK and other countries have continued to increase their focus on conduct matters relating to fair HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 112 outcomes for customers and orderly and transparent Under the terms of the US DPA, upon notice and an operations in financial markets.
For further details, see opportunity to be heard, the DoJ has sole discretion to Compliance risk on page 178. determine whether HSBC has breached the US DPA.
Potential consequences of breaching the US DPA could Potential impact on HSBC include the imposition of additional terms and conditions on HSBC, an extension of the agreement, including its HSBC may face regulatory censure or sanctions including monitorship, or the criminal prosecution of HSBC, which fines and or be exposed to legal proceedings and litigation.
could, in turn, entail further financial penalties and collateral consequences.
Regulators in the UK and other countries may identify Breach of the US DPA or related agreements and consent future industry-wide mis-selling, market conduct or other orders could have a material adverse effect on our issues that could affect the Group.
This may lead from business, financial condition and results of operations, time to time to significant direct costs or liabilities including loss of business and withdrawal of funding, and or changes in the practices of such businesses.
Also, restrictions on performing dollar-clearing functions decisions taken by the Financial Ombudsman Service in through HSBC Bank USA or revocation of bank licences.
the UK or similar overseas bodies could, if applied to a Even if we are not determined to have breached these wider class or grouping of customers, have a material agreements, but the agreements are amended or their adverse effect on the operating results, financial terms extended, our business, reputation and brand condition and prospects of the Group.
Mitigating actions Mitigating actions We have taken a number of steps including introduction We are continuing to take concerted action to remedy of new global policies, enhancement to the product AML and sanctions compliance deficiencies and to governance processes, establishment of a global conduct implement Global Standards.
We are also working to programme and review of sale processes and incentive implement the agreed recommendations flowing schemes see Compliance risk on page 178. from the Monitors 2013 and 2014 reviews, and will US deferred prosecution agreement and related implement the agreed recommendations from the agreements and consent orders 2015 review.
An independent compliance monitor the Monitor was During 2015, we continued to make progress toward appointed in 2013 under the 2012 agreements entered putting in place a robust and sustainable AML and into with the US Department of Justice DoJ and the UK sanctions compliance programme, including continuing Financial Conduct Authority FCA to produce annual to build a strong Financial Crime Compliance subassessments of the effectiveness of our AML and sanctions function, rolling out improved systems and infrastructure compliance programme.
Additionally, the Monitor is serving to manage financial crime risk and improve transaction as HSBCs independent consultant under the consent order monitoring and enhancing internal audits.
HSBC Bank USA is also subject to an agreement entered into with the Office of the Comptroller of the Dispute risk Currency OCC in December 2012, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley HSBC is party to legal proceedings and regulatory matters in Act Agreement and other consent orders.
In January 2016, a number of jurisdictions arising out of its normal business the Monitor delivered his second annual follow-up review operations.
Further details are provided in Note 40 on the report as required by the US DPA.
The Monitors report is Financial Statements.
Potential impact on HSBC Potential impact on HSBC Dispute risk may give rise to potential financial loss as The design and execution of AML and sanctions well as significant reputational damage.
This in turn could remediation plans are complex and require major adversely affect customer, investor and other stakeholder investments in people, systems and other infrastructure.
This complexity creates significant execution risk, which could affect our ability to effectively identify and manage Mitigating actions financial crime risk and remedy AML and sanctions We continue to focus on identifying emerging regulatory compliance deficiencies in a timely manner.
This could, in and judicial trends, and sharing globally lessons learned in turn, impact our ability to satisfy the Monitor or comply an effort to avoid or limit future litigation exposure and with the terms of the US DPA and related agreements regulatory enforcement action.
and consent orders, and may require us to take additional We continue to review and enhance our financial crime remedial measures in the future.
and regulatory compliance controls and resources.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 113 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Top and emerging risks Cyber threat and unauthorised access to systems presents significant challenges for HSBC because a significant number of our material risk takers are based Like other public and private organisations, we continue to outside the EU.
be a target of cyber attacks which, in some cases, disrupt services including the availability of our external facing The Senior Managers and Certification regimes and the websites, compromise organisational and customer related Rules of Conduct, which come into force in 2017 information or expose security weaknesses.
Management of for other employees, set clear expectations of the cyber risks is coming under increased regulatory scrutiny.
accountabilities and behaviour of both senior and more junior employees.
Potential impact on HSBC Organisational changes to support the Groups strategy A major cyber attack, which could result from and or implement regulatory reform programmes have unauthorised access to our systems, may result in the potential to lead to increased staff turnover.
financial loss as well as significant reputational damage which could adversely affect customer and investor Mitigating actions confidence in HSBC.
Any loss of customer data would also The changes in remuneration under the CRD IV trigger regulatory breaches which could result in fines and regulations, EBA guidelines and PRA remuneration rules penalties being incurred.
have necessitated a review of our remuneration policy, especially the balance between fixed and variable pay, to Mitigating actions ensure we can remain globally competitive on a total The security of our information and technology compensation basis and retain our key talent.
infrastructure is crucial for maintaining our banking We continue to increase the level of specialist resource in applications and processes and protecting our customers key areas, and to engage with our regulators as they and the HSBC brand.
We continue to strengthen our finalise new regulations.
ability to prevent, detect and respond to the everincreasing and sophisticated threat of cyber attacks by Risks related to organisational change and disposals are enhancing our governance and controls framework and subject to close management oversight, especially in technology infrastructure, processes and controls.
those countries where staff turnover is particularly high.
We took part in the PRAs Cyber Vulnerability Testing Execution risk exercise during 2015 and are making further Execution risk heightened during 2015 due to a number of enhancements to improve our resilience to, and factors.
Significant programmes are under way to deliver ability to recover from, cyber attacks.
nine business actions to capture value from our global We have realigned the responsibilities and presence, announced at the Investor Update in June 2015. accountabilities for cyber and information risk These, along with the regulatory reform agenda and our management to align with the operational risk lines of commitments under the US DPA require the management defence operational model and instigated a number of of complex projects that are resource demanding and time security improvement programmes within IT.
In addition, the risks arising from the disposal of our business in Brazil require careful management.
Internally driven Potential impact on HSBC People risk Risks arising from the number, magnitude and complexity Execution risk of projects underway to meet these demands may Third-party risk management include financial losses, reputational damage or regulatory censure.
Model risk The potential risks of disposals include regulatory Data management breaches, industrial action, loss of key personnel and interruption to systems and processes during People risk business transformation.
They can have both financial and reputational implications.
Significant demands continue to be placed on our staff.
The cumulative workload arising from regulatory reform and Mitigating actions remediation programmes together with those related to the delivery of our strategy is hugely consumptive of human We have strengthened our prioritisation and governance resources, placing increasingly complex and conflicting processes for significant projects, which are monitored by demands on a workforce in a world where expertise is the GMB.
often in short supply and globally mobile.
We have invested in our project implementation and IT capabilities and increased our focus on resource Potential impact on HSBC management.
Changes in remuneration policy and practice resulting Risks relating to disposals are carefully assessed and from CRD IV regulations, European Banking Authority monitored and are subject to close management EBA Guidelines and PRA remuneration rules apply on a oversight.
Group-wide basis for any material risk takers.
This HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 114 Third-party risk management Supervisory concerns over the internal models and assumptions used by banks in the calculation of HSBC, in common with peers in the financial services regulatory capital have led to the imposition of floors in industry, utilises third parties for the provision of a range of risk weight and model parameters such as the loss given goods and services.
Global regulators have raised concerns default.
Such changes have the potential to increase our regarding the dependency on third parties, and expect firms capital requirement and or make it more volatile.
to be able to demonstrate adequate control over the selection, governance and oversight of their third parties Our reputation may be questioned due to our inability including affiliates.
Risks arising from the use of third-party to comply with specific modelling and model risk service providers may be less transparent and therefore management requirements.
more challenging to manage or influence.
Mitigating actions Potential impact on HSBC We have strengthened our model risk governance Any deficiency in the management of third-party risk framework by establishing global model oversight could affect our ability to meet strategic, regulatory committees and implementing policies and standards in and client expectations.
This may lead to a range of accordance with key regulatory requirements.
consequences including regulatory censure, civil We have strengthened our governance over the penalties or reputational damage.
development, usage and validation of models including the creation of centralised global analytical functions with Mitigating actions necessary subject-matter expertise.
HSBC is undertaking a multi-year strategic plan to We have hired additional subject matter experts as enhance its third-party risk management capability.
We part of our independent model review function and are implementing a programme that will provide a holistic empowered the function to ensure appropriate challenge view of third-party risks.
This will enable the consistent and feedback are given to models prior to and as part of risk assessment of any third-party service against key their ongoing use.
criteria, along with the associated control monitoring, testing and assurance throughout the third-party Data management lifecycle.
Regulators require more frequent and granular data The Groups most critical third parties were identified and submissions, which must be produced on a consistent, subjected to enhanced risk assessment, with remediation accurate and timely basis.
As a G-SIB, HSBC must comply plans agreed where necessary.
Plans are in place to with the principles for effective risk data aggregation and risk extend the assessment to a broader group of third reporting set out by the Basel Committee.
Potential impact on HSBC In addition, the highest priority third-party vendors in the US went through enhanced risk assessment with findings Ineffective data management capabilities could impact remediated in 2015.
A risk monitoring solution was our ability to aggregate and report complete, accurate implemented for all vendors and a due diligence solution and consistent data to regulators, investors and senior is in the process of being implemented.
Financial institutions that fail to meet their Basel Model risk Committee data obligations by the required deadline may We use models for a range of purposes in managing our face supervisory measures.
business, including regulatory and economic capital calculations, stress testing, credit approvals, pricing, financial Mitigating actions crime and fraud risk management and financial reporting.
We have set a data strategy for the Group and defined Model risk is the potential for adverse consequences as a Group-level principles, standards and policies to enable result of decisions based on incorrect model outputs and consistent data aggregation, reporting and management.
reports or the use of such information for purposes for which We continue to focus on enhancing data governance, it was not designed.
This risk can arise from models that quality and architecture to support our objectives of are poorly developed, implemented or used, or from the ensuring reliability of information used in support of modelled outcome being misunderstood and acted upon internal controls and external financial reporting.
The regulatory environment and supervisory concerns over banks use A number of key initiatives and projects to implement of internal models to determine regulatory capital is also our data strategy and work towards meeting our Basel considerable, and further contributes to model risk.
Committee data obligations are in progress.
Potential impact on HSBC HSBC could incur losses, be required to hold additional capital, fail to meet regulatory standards or incur higher operating expenses due to the use of inappropriate models or poor model risk management.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 115 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
