Managing risk 1 Risk Page App All of our activities involve, to varying degrees, the Managing risk 101 measurement, evaluation and management of risk or combinations of risks.
Risk management framework 101 Governance and structure 102 Our conservative risk profile Responsibilities 104 We maintain a conservative risk profile which Processes 105 encompasses the following: Risk factors 108 Financial position Risk governance 193 Strong capital position, defined by regulatory and Risk appetite 194 internal capital ratios.
Top and emerging risks 110 Liquidity and funding management for each operating entity, on a stand-alone basis.
Externally driven 110 Internally driven 114 Operating model Areas of special interest 116 Returns generated in line with risk taken.
Financial crime compliance and regulatory Sustainable and diversified earnings mix, delivering compliance 116 consistent returns for shareholders.
The Monitor 116 Business practice Regulatory stress tests 116 Zero tolerance for knowingly engaging in any business, Oil and gas prices 117 activity or association where foreseeable reputational Metals and mining 117 risk or damage has not been considered and or Mainland China exposures 117 mitigated.
No appetite for deliberately or knowingly causing Credit risk 118 195 detriment to consumers arising from our products and Liquidity and funding 154 204 services or incurring a breach of the letter or spirit of regulatory requirements.
Market risk 166 210 No appetite for inappropriate market conduct by a Operational risk 176 217 member of staff or by any Group business.
Compliance risk 178 217 Risk management framework Legal risk 218 Managing risk effectively is fundamental to the delivery Global security and fraud risk 218 of our strategic priorities.
In doing so, we employ a risk Systems risk 219 management framework at all levels of the organisation and Vendor risk management 219 across all risk types.
It fosters the continuous monitoring of the risk environment and an integrated evaluation of risks Risk management of insurance operations 180 219 and their interactions.
It also ensures that we have a Other material risks 189 consistent approach to risk management across the Group.
Reputational risk 189 224 Our enterprise risk management framework is underpinned by our risk culture and is reinforced by Fiduciary risk 189 224 the HSBC Values and our Global Standards.
These are Pension risk 189 225 instrumental in aligning the behaviours of individuals with Sustainability risk 190 226 the Groups attitude to assuming and managing risk and helping to ensure that our risk profile remains in line with 1 Appendix to Risk risk policies and practices.
For details of HSBCs policies and practices regarding risk Our enterprise risk management framework is set out management and governance see the Appendix to Risk on overleaf.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 101 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Managing risk HSBC Culture and Values The Board approves risk appetite, plans and performance targets Role of Board and its Committees page 256, which sets the tone from the top.
GRC advises on risk appetite, risk governance and other high-level risk-related matters page 266.
Group Risk Financial System Conduct & Values FSVC advises on financial crime and financial systems abuse page 268.
Committee Vulnerabilities Committee Committee CVC advises on polices and procedures to ensure we adhere to HSBC GRC FSVC CVC Values page 272.
Formulate and implement strategy within risk appetite.
Role of senior management Responsible for risk governance and controls Describes the types and quantum of risks we are prepared to accept in Risk appetite achieving our mediumand long-term strategic goals page 102.
Ensures appropriate oversight of and accountability for management of Risk governance framework risk page 102.
Processes to identify, monitor and mitigate risks to ensure we remain Enterprise-wide risk management tools within our risk appetite page 103.
Risk map Top and emerging risks Stress testing Our Three lines of defence model defines roles and responsibilities for risk management page 104.
Our risk culture empowers our people to do the right thing for our Three lines of defence Independent Risk People customers, reinforced by our approach to remuneration page 104. model function An independent Risk function ensures the necessary balance in risk return decisions page 104.
Identification Mitigation Monitoring Reporting Essential for the effective management of risk.
and Assessment Management Risks arising from our business activities that are measured, Banking and insurance risks monitored and managed page 105.
Set by Risk Stewards for each of our material banking and insurance Risk Policies and Practices risks page 105.
The Operational Risk Management Framework defines minimum standards and processes for operational risks and internal controls across the Group Internal Controls page 176.
Tools, Technology and Infrastructure Executive accountability for the ongoing monitoring, Governance and structure assessment and management of the risk environment and Corporate and risk governance the effectiveness of our risk management policies resides Robust risk governance and accountability are embedded with the RMM, the Risk Management Meeting of the throughout the Group through an established framework Group Management Board GMB.
Day-to-day risk that ensures appropriate oversight of and accountability management activities are the responsibility of senior for the effective management of risk.
managers of individual businesses, supported by global functions as described under Three lines of defence The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effective below.
management of risk and approves HSBCs risk appetite.
The Board is advised on risk-related matters by the The consistency of governance structures across HSBC is following committees: enforced through risk management committees, as set out in our enterprise risk management framework, and The Group Risk Committee advises the Board on adherence to consistent standards and risk management risk appetite and its alignment with strategy, risk policies.
governance and internal controls, and high-level risk related matters.
The executive and non-executive risk governance structures and their interactions are set out on page 193, The Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee reports with similar arrangements in place for major operating to the Board on matters relating to financial crime and subsidiaries.
financial system abuse and provides a forward-looking perspective on financial crime risk.
The report of the Group Risk Committee is on page 266, of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee is on page 268, and The Conduct & Values Committee oversees the design of the Conduct & Values Committee is on page 272. and application of HSBCs policies, procedures and standards to ensure that we conduct business responsibly Risk appetite and consistently adhere to HSBC Values, and advises the The Groups Risk Appetite Statement RAS is the written Board accordingly.
articulation of the aggregated level and types of risk that we are willing to accept in our business activities in order HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 102 Processes Responsibilities Governance and Structure to achieve our medium to long-term business objectives.
We define a top risk as a thematic issue arising across It is a key component of our management of risk and is any combination of risk map categories, regions or global reviewed on an ongoing basis, with formal approval from businesses which has the potential to have a material the Board every six months on the recommendation of the effect on the Groups financial results, reputation or longGroup Risk Committee.
term business model, and which may form and crystallise between six months and one year.
The risk impact may The Groups actual risk appetite profile is reported to the be well understood by senior management, with some RMM on a monthly basis to enable senior management to mitigating actions already in place.
Stress tests of varying monitor the risk profile and guide business activity in order granularity may also have been carried out to assess the to balance risk and return, allowing risks to be promptly effect.
identified and mitigated, and inform risk-adjusted remuneration to drive a strong risk culture across the An emerging risk is defined as a thematic issue that Group.
has large unknown components which may form and crystallise beyond a one-year time horizon.
If it were to The RAS is established and monitored as part of the Global materialise, it could have a significant material effect on a Risk Appetite Framework, which provides a globally combination of the Groups long-term strategy, profitability consistent and structured approach to the management, and reputation.
Existing management action plans are measurement and control of risk by detailing the likely to be minimal, reflecting the uncertain nature of processes, governance and other features of how risk these risks at this stage.
Some high-level analysis and or appetite is cascaded to drive day-to-day decision-making stress testing may have been carried out to assess the through policies, limits and the control framework.
Risk appetite informs the strategic and financial planning Our top and emerging risk framework enables us to identify process, defining the desired forward-looking risk profile and manage current and forward-looking risks to ensure of the Group.
It is also embedded in other enterprise risk our risk appetite remains appropriate.
The ongoing tools such as top and emerging risks and stress testing, to assessment of our top and emerging risks is informed by a ensure consistency in risk management.
comprehensive suite of risk factors see page 108 and the Global businesses, geographical regions and strategic results of our stress testing programme.
When our top and countries are required to have their own RASs, which are emerging risks result in our risk appetite being exceeded, subject to assurance to ensure they remain directionally or have the potential to exceed, we take steps to mitigate aligned to the Groups.
All RASs and business activities are them, including reducing our exposure to areas of stress.
guided and underpinned by a set of qualitative principles, Our current top and emerging risks are discussed on page 110. outlined in the Appendix to Risk on page 194.
Additionally, quantitative metrics are defined along with appetite and Stress testing tolerance thresholds for 10 risk areas.
Our stress testing and scenario analysis programme examines the sensitivities of our capital plans and Enterprise-wide risk management tools unplanned demand for regulatory capital under a number The following processes to identify, manage and mitigate of scenarios and ensures that top and emerging risks are risks are integral to risk management at HSBC, helping to appropriately considered.
These scenarios include, but ensure that we remain within our risk appetite.
are not limited to, adverse macroeconomic events, failures at country, sector and counterparty levels, geopolitical Risk map occurrences and a variety of projected major operational The risk map process provides a point-in-time view of the risk events.
risk profile of the Group across a suite of risk categories At Board level, the Group Chief Risk Officer and the Group including our material banking risks and insurance risks Finance Director are the two executive Directors jointly see page 105.
It assesses the potential for these risks accountable for oversight of stress testing in HSBC.
The to materially affect our financial results, reputation or Stress Testing Management Board, which is chaired by the business sustainability on current and projected bases.
Group Finance Director, is responsible for stress testing The risk categories presented on the risk map are regularly strategy and stewardship.
Updates on stress testing are assessed through our risk appetite profile, are stress tested provided regularly to the RMM.
The Group Risk Committee and, where thematic issues arise, are considered for is informed and consulted on the banks stress testing classification as top or emerging risks.
activities, as appropriate, and approves the key elements of the Bank of England concurrent stress test, including Top and emerging risks final results.
Identifying, managing and monitoring risks are integral to The development of macroeconomic scenarios is a critical our approach to risk management.
Our top and emerging part of the process.
Potential scenarios are defined and risks process provides a forward-looking view of those risks generated by a panel of economic experts from various which have the potential to threaten the execution of our global teams, including Risk and Finance.
Scenarios are strategy and our global operations.
Top and emerging risks translated into financial impacts, such as on our forecast are generally described thematically, and may have an profitability and RWAs, using a suite of stress testing impact across multiple risk map categories, global models and methodologies.
Models are subject to businesses or regions.
independent model review and go through a process of HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 103 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Managing risk validation and approval.
Model overlays may be considered Responsibilities where necessary.
Three lines of defence Stress testing results are subject to a review and challenge We use the three lines of defence model to underpin process at regional, global business and Group levels and our approach to strong risk management.
It defines action plans are developed to mitigate identified risks.
The responsibilities for: identifying, assessing, measuring, extent to which these action plans would be implemented managing, monitoring and mitigating risks: encouraging in the event of particular scenarios occurring depends on collaboration: and enabling efficient coordination of risk senior managements evaluation of the risks and their and control activities.
potential consequences, taking into account HSBCs risk For details of the three lines of defence model, see page 177. appetite.
People In addition to the Group-wide risk scenarios, each major HSBC subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic and All employees are required to identify, assess and manage event-driven scenario analyses specific to their region.
risk within the scope of their assigned responsibilities and, They also participate in local regulatory stress testing as such, they are critical to the effectiveness of the three programmes, where required.
Stress testing is applied to risks such as operational risk, Clear and consistent employee communication on risk including market risk, liquidity and funding risk, credit risk conveys strategic messages and sets the tone from senior and conduct to evaluate the potential effects of stress leadership.
We deploy a suite of mandatory training on scenarios on portfolio values, structural long-term funding critical risk and compliance topics to embed skills and positions, income or capital.
understanding and strengthen the risk culture within HSBC.
It reinforces the attitude to risk in the behaviour expected Reverse stress testing is run annually on both Group and, of employees, as described in our risk policies.
The training where required, subsidiary entity bases.
This stress test is is updated regularly, describing technical aspects of the conducted by assuming the business model is non-viable various risks assumed by the Group and how they should and works backwards to identify a range of occurrences be managed effectively.
A confidential disclosure line that could bring that event about.
Non-viability might occur enables staff to raise concerns see page 179. before the banks capital is depleted, and could result from a variety of events, including idiosyncratic or systemic Our risk culture is reinforced by our approach to events or combinations thereof.
It could imply failure remuneration.
Individual awards, including those for of the Groups holding company or one of its major executives, are based on compliance with HSBC Values and subsidiaries.
Reverse stress testing is used to strengthen the achievement of financial and non-financial objectives our resilience by identifying potential stresses and which are aligned to our risk appetite and global strategy.
vulnerabilities which the Group might face and helping to For further information on risk and remuneration, see the Report inform early-warning triggers, management actions and of the Group Remuneration Committee on page 270. contingency plans designed to mitigate their effect, were they to occur.
Independent Risk function HSBC participated in regulatory stress testing programmes Global Risk, headed by the Group Chief Risk Officer, in a number of jurisdictions during 2015, as outlined on is responsible for the enterprise risk management page 116.
In addition, we have conducted an internal stress framework.
This includes establishing global policy, test, incorporating the latest portfolio developments and monitoring risk profiles and forward-looking risk business plan.
For this exercise management considers identification and management.
Global Risk also has that the Bank of England 2015 scenario reflects key risks functional responsibility for risk management in support of which merit examination at this time.
The results of this HSBCs global businesses and regions through its Risk subexercise are used for internal risk and capital management functions, which are independent from the sales and trading processes, including the Internal Capital Adequacy functions of the Groups businesses.
This independence Assessment Process ICAAP.
ensures the necessary balance in risk return decisions.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 104 Processes Banking and insurance risks The material risk types associated with our banking and insurance manufacturing operations are described in the tables below.
Description of risks banking operations Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Credit risk page 118 The risk of financial loss if a Credit risk arises principally Credit risk is: customer or counterparty fails to from direct lending, trade measured as the amount which could be lost if a customer or meet an obligation under a finance and leasing counterparty fails to make repayments.
In the case of derivatives, contract.
business, but also from the measurement of exposure takes into account the current certain other products such mark-to-market value to HSBC of the contract and the expected as guarantees and potential change in that value over time caused by movements in derivatives.
market rates: monitored within limits approved by individuals within a framework of delegated authorities.
These limits represent the peak exposure or loss to which HSBC could be subjected should the customer or counterparty fail to perform its contractual obligations: and managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines clear and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk managers.
Liquidity and funding risk page 154 The risk that we do not have Liquidity risk arises from Liquidity and funding risk is: sufficient financial resources to mismatches in the timing of measured using internal metrics including stressed operational meet our obligations as they fall cash flows.
cash flow projections, coverage ratios and advances to core due or that we can only do so at funding ratios: Funding risk arises when the excessive cost.
monitored against the Groups liquidity and funding risk liquidity needed to fund framework and overseen by regional Asset and Liability illiquid asset positions Management Committees ALCOs, Group ALCO and the RMM: cannot be obtained at the and expected terms and when managed on a stand-alone basis with no reliance on any Group required.
entity unless pre-committed or central bank unless this represents routine established business-as-usual market practice.
Market risk page 166 The risk that movements in Exposure to market risk is Market risk is: market factors, including foreign separated into two measured in terms of value at risk, which is used to estimate exchange rates and commodity portfolios: potential losses on risk positions as a result of movements in prices, interest rates, credit trading portfolios market rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a spreads and equity prices, will comprise positions given level of confidence, augmented with stress testing to reduce our income or the value of arising from marketevaluate the potential impact on portfolio values of more extreme, our portfolios.
making and warehousing though plausible, events or movements in a set of financial of customer-derived variables: positions.
monitored using measures including the sensitivity of net interest non-trading portfolios income and the sensitivity of structural foreign exchange which are comprise positions applied to the market risk positions within each risk type: and that primarily arise managed using risk limits approved by the GMB for HSBC Holdings from the interest rate and our various global businesses.
These units are allocated across management of our business lines and to the Groups legal entities.
retail and commercial banking assets and liabilities, financial investments designated as available for sale and held to maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance operations page 180.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 105 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Managing risk Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Operational risk page 176 The risk of loss resulting from Operational risk arises from Operational risk is: inadequate or failed internal day to day operations or measured using both the top risk analysis process and the risk processes, people and systems or external events, and is and control assessment process, which assess the level of risk and from external events, including relevant to every aspect of effectiveness of controls: legal risk.
monitored using key indicators and other internal control Compliance risk and activities: and Fiduciary risk are discussed managed primarily by global business and functional managers.
Other operational They identify and assess risks, implement controls to manage risks are covered in the them and monitor the effectiveness of these controls utilising Appendix to Risk page 217. the operational risk management framework.
Global Operational Risk is responsible for the framework and for overseeing the management of operational risks within global businesses and global functions.
Compliance risk page 178 The risk that we fail to observe Compliance risk is part of Compliance risk is: the letter and spirit of all relevant operational risk, and arises measured by reference to identified metrics, incident assessments laws, codes, rules, regulations from rules, regulations, whether affecting HSBC or the wider industry, regulatory and standards of good market other standards and Group feedback and the judgement and assessment of compliance practice, and incur fines and policies, including those officers in our global businesses, regions and functions: penalties and suffer damage to relating to anti-money monitored against our compliance risk assessments and metrics, our business as a consequence.
laundering, anti-bribery and the results of the monitoring and control activities of the second corruption, counter-terrorist line of defence functions, including the Financial Crime Compliance and proliferation financing, and Regulatory Compliance sub-functions, and the results of sanctions compliance and internal and external audits and regulatory inspections: and conduct of business.
managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies The US DPA is discussed on and procedures, training employees in them, and monitoring page 113 and the Monitor activity to assure their observance.
Proactive risk control and or on page 116. remediation work is undertaken where required.
Other material risks Reputational risk page 189 The risk of failure to meet Primary reputational risks Reputational risk is: stakeholder expectations as a arise directly from an action measured by reference to our reputation as indicated by our result of any event, behaviour, or inaction by HSBC, its dealings with all relevant stakeholders, including media, regulators, action or inaction, either by HSBC employees or associated customers and employees: itself, our employees or those parties that are not the monitored through a reputational risk management framework with whom we are associated, consequence of another that is integrated into the Groups broader risk taxonomy: and that might cause stakeholders to type of risk.
Secondary managed by every member of staff and is covered by a number of form a negative view of the reputational risks are those policies and guidelines.
There is a clear structure of committees Group.
This may result in financial arising indirectly and are a and individuals charged with mitigating reputational risk, including or non-financial impacts, loss of result of another risk the Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee, the Global Risk confidence, or other caused either by HSBC, its Resolution Committee and reputational risk committees in the consequences.
employees or associated regions and global businesses.
Fiduciary risk page 189 The risk of breaching our fiduciary Fiduciary risk is part of Fiduciary risk is: duties, defined as any duty where operational risk, and arises measured by each designated business monitoring against their HSBC holds, manages, oversees or from our business activities own risk appetite statements and by the operational risk and has responsibilities for assets for where we act in a fiduciary control assessment process, which assesses the level of risk and a third party that involves a legal capacity designated the effectiveness of the key controls: and or regulatory duty to act businesses as Trustee, monitored through a combination of testing, key indicators and with the highest standard of care Investment Manager or other metrics such as client and regulatory feedback: and and with utmost good faith.
as mandated by law or managed within the designated businesses via established regulation.
governance frameworks, and comprehensive policies, procedures and training programmes.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 106 Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Pension risk page 189 The risk that contributions from Pension risk arises from Pension risk is: Group companies and members investments delivering an measured in terms of the schemes ability to generate sufficient fail to generate sufficient funds to inadequate return, funds to meet the cost of their accrued benefits: meet the cost of accruing benefits economic conditions leading monitored through the specific risk appetite that has been for the future service of active to corporate failures, developed at both Group and regional levels: and members, and the risk that adverse changes in interest managed locally through the appropriate pension risk governance the performance of assets held rates or inflation, or structure and globally through the RMM.
in pension funds is insufficient members living longer than to cover existing pension expected longevity risk.
Sustainability risk page 190 The risk that financial services Sustainability risk arises Sustainability risk is: provided to customers by the from the provision of measured by assessing the potential sustainability effect of a Group indirectly result in financial services to customers activities and assigning a Sustainability Risk Rating to unacceptable impacts on people companies or projects all high risk transactions: or on the environment.
which indirectly result in monitored quarterly by the RMM and monthly by Group unacceptable impacts on Sustainability Risk: and people or on the managed using sustainability risk policies covering project finance environment.
lending and sector-based sustainability policies for sectors and themes with potentially high environmental or social impacts.
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are separately operations are also subject to the operational risks and regulated from our banking operations.
Risks in the the other material risk types presented above in relation to insurance entities are managed using methodologies and the banking operations, and these are covered by the processes appropriate to insurance activities, but remain Groups risk management processes.
subject to oversight at Group level.
Our insurance Description of risks insurance manufacturing operations Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Financial risks page 183 Our ability to effectively match Exposure to financial risks Financial risks are: the liabilities arising under arises from: measured separately for each type of risk: insurance contracts with the market risk of changes market risk is measured in terms of exposure to fluctuations in asset portfolios that back in the fair values of key financial variables: them is contingent on the financial assets or their credit risk is measured as the amount which could be lost if a management of financial risks future cash flows from customer or counterparty fails to make repayments: and such as market, credit and fluctuations in variables liquidity risks, and the extent liquidity risk is measured using internal metrics including such as interest rates, to which these risks are borne by stressed operational cash flow projections.
foreign exchange rates the policyholders.
and equity prices: monitored within limits approved by individuals within a Liabilities to policyholders under framework of delegated authorities: and credit risk and the unit-linked contracts move in line potential for financial managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines with the value of the underlying loss following the default clear and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk assets, and as such the of third parties in managers.
Subsidiaries manufacturing products with guarantees policyholder bears the majority meeting their are usually exposed to falls in market interest rates and equity of the financial risks.
obligations: and prices to the extent that the market exposure cannot be managed Contracts with DPF share the by utilising any discretionary participation or bonus features liquidity risk of entities performance of the underlying within the policy contracts they issue.
not being able to assets between policyholders and make payments to the shareholder in line with the policyholders as they type of contract and the specific fall due as there are contract terms.
insufficient assets that can be realised as cash.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 107 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Risks managed by HSBC Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Insurance risk page 188 The risk that, over time, the cost The cost of claims and Insurance risk is: of the contract, including claims benefits can be influenced measured in terms of life insurance liabilities: and benefits may exceed the total by many factors, including monitored by the RBWM Risk Management Committee, which amount of premiums and mortality and morbidity checks the risk profile of the insurance operations against a investment income received.
experience, lapse and risk appetite for insurance business agreed by the GMB: and surrender rates.
managed both centrally and locally using product design, underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures.
Risks incurred in our business activities The chart below provides a high level guide to how our liabilities indicate the contribution each business makes to business activities are reflected in our risk measures and the balance sheet, while RWAs illustrate the relative size of in the Groups balance sheet.
The third-party assets and the risks incurred in respect of each business.
Exposure to risks arising from the business activities of global businesses Other HSBC including Holding Company Global RBWM CMB GB&M GPB business Business Deposits Deposits Deposits Deposits HSBC holding activities Accounts services Payments and cash Payments and cash Account services company and Credit and lending management management Credit and lending central operations Asset management Credit and lending Balance sheet Investment Wealth solutions and International trade management management financial planning and receivables Credit and lending Financial advisory Broking finance Asset and trade Broking Insurance Insurance finance Corporate finance distribution: life distribution: life Corporate finance via GB&M manufacturing manufacturing Markets Alternative Securities services investments Trusts and estate planning Insurance Balance $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn 1 Assets 473 Assets 365 Assets 1,617 Assets 81 Assets 147 sheet Customer Customer Customer Customer Customer accounts 585 accounts 362 accounts 262 accounts 80 accounts 1 $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn RWAs Credit risk 154 Credit risk 390 Credit risk 285 Credit risk 16 Credit risk 32 Operational risk 36 Operational risk 31 Counterparty Operational risk 3 Operational risk credit risk 69 Operational risk 44 Market risk 43 Risk Liquidity and funding risk page 154, Pension risk page 189, Fiduciary risk page 189, Reputational risk page 189, profile Compliance risk page 178, Sustainability risk page 190 and Insurance risk page 180.
The latter is predominantly in RBWM and CMB.
Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk Risk factors Current economic and market conditions may adversely We have identified a comprehensive suite of risk factors affect our results.
which covers the broad range of risks our businesses are exposed to.
We are subject to political and economic risks in the A number of the risk factors have the potential to affect countries in which we operate, including the risk of the results of our operations or financial condition, but government intervention.
may not necessarily be deemed as top or emerging risks.
We may suffer adverse effects as a result of the However, they inform the ongoing assessment of our top interaction between market perceptions surrounding and emerging risks.
The risk factors are: mainland Chinas slowdown, the course of global HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 108 monetary policies, economic conditions in the eurozone Operational risks are inherent in our business.
and damage from plummeting oil prices, all of which may Our operations are subject to the threat of fraudulent result in further capital outflows from emerging markets.
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may affect Our operations are subject to disruption from the our results.
Our operations utilise third-party suppliers and service Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our providers.
business model Our operations are highly dependent on our information Failure to implement and adhere to our obligations under technology systems.
the deferred prosecution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results and operations.
We may not be able to meet regulatory requests for data.
We may fail to effectively manage affiliate risk.
Our operations have inherent reputational risk.
Failure to comply with certain regulatory requirements We may suffer losses due to employee misconduct.
could have a material adverse effect on our results and We rely on recruiting, retaining and developing operations.
appropriate senior management and skilled personnel.
We may fail to meet the requirements of regulatory Our financial statements are based in part on stress tests.
judgements, estimates and assumptions which are subject to uncertainty.
We are subject to a number of legal and regulatory actions and investigations, the outcomes of which We could incur losses or be required to hold additional are inherently difficult to predict.
capital as a result of model limitations or failure.
We are subject to unfavourable legislative or regulatory Third parties may use us as a conduit for illegal activities developments and changes in the policy of regulators or without our knowledge.
We have significant exposure to counterparty risk.
We may fail to comply with all applicable regulations, Market fluctuations may reduce our income or the value particularly any changes thereto.
We and our UK subsidiaries may become subject to Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our stabilisation provisions under the Banking Act 2009, as businesses.
amended, in certain significant stress situations.
Any reduction in the credit rating assigned to HSBC Structural separation of banking and trading activities Holdings, any subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings or any of proposed or enacted in a number of jurisdictions could their respective debt securities could increase the cost have a material adverse effect on us.
or decrease the availability of our funding and adversely affect our liquidity position and interest margin.
We are subject to tax-related risks in the countries in which we operate.
Risks concerning borrower credit quality are inherent in our businesses.
Risks related to our business, business operations, Our insurance businesses are subject to risks relating governance and internal control systems to insurance claim rates and changes in insurance The delivery of our strategic actions is subject to customer behaviour.
HSBC Holdings is a holding company and, as a result, We may not achieve any of the expected benefits of our is dependent on loan payments and dividends from strategic initiatives.
its subsidiaries to meet its obligations, including We may fail to increase the cross-selling and or business obligations with respect to its debt securities, and synergies required to achieve our growth strategy.
to provide profits for payment of future dividends to shareholders.
We operate in markets that are highly competitive.
We may be required to make substantial contributions Our risk management measures may not be successful.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 109 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
