the third party and must place the wants and needs of the Other material risks client first, above the needs of the Group.
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding We may be held liable for damages or other penalties reputational risk, fiduciary risk, pension risk and sustainability risk caused by failure to act in accordance with these duties.
is provided in the Appendix to Risk on pages 224 to 226.
Fiduciary duties may also arise in other circumstances, Reputational risk such as when we act as an agent for a principal, unless the fiduciary duties are specifically excluded e. g. under the Reputational risk is the risk of failure to meet agency appointment contract.
stakeholder expectations as a result of any event, behaviour, action or inaction, either by HSBC itself, Our principal fiduciary businesses the designated our employees or those with whom we are associated, businesses have developed fiduciary limits, key risk that might cause stakeholders to form a negative view indicators and key performance indicators to monitor their of the Group.
This may have financial or non-financial related risks.
effects, resulting in a loss of confidence, or have other consequences.
Pension risk Reputational risk relates to stakeholders perceptions, We operate a number of defined benefit and defined whether based on fact or otherwise.
Stakeholders contribution pension plans throughout the world.
Most expectations are constantly changing and thus reputational of our pension risk arises from defined benefit plans.
risk is dynamic and varies between geographical regions, The largest of these is the HSBC Bank UK Pension groups and individuals.
As a global bank, HSBC has an Scheme the principal plan.
unwavering commitment to operating to the high At 31 December 2015, the Groups aggregate defined standards we have set for ourselves in every jurisdiction.
benefit pension obligation was $38bn and the net asset Any lapse in standards of integrity, compliance, customer on the balance sheet was $3.1bn 2014: $42bn and $2.7bn, service or operating efficiency represents a potential respectively.
The principal plan is the largest contributor reputational risk.
to pension risk in the Group: it contributed $28bn to the A number of measures to address the requirements of the Groups defined benefit obligation and $5.0bn to the US DPA and otherwise to enhance our AML, sanctions and Groups net asset.
other regulatory compliance frameworks have been taken The principal plan and or are ongoing.
These measures should also serve over time to enhance our reputational risk management.
For The principal plan has a defined benefit section and a further details on the implementation of the Global defined contribution section and is overseen by a Standards, see Strategic Report on page 21 and corporate trustee.
This trustee has a fiduciary responsibility Compliance risk on page 178. to run the plan.
Unless stated otherwise, this section relates to the defined benefit section.
We have a zero tolerance for knowingly engaging in any business, activity or association where foreseeable The investment strategy of the principal plan is to hold the reputational risk or damage has not been considered and majority of assets in bonds, with the remainder in a diverse mitigated.
There must be no barriers to open discussion range of investments.
It also includes some interest rate and the escalation of issues that could affect the Group and inflation swaps to reduce the level of interest rate risk negatively.
While there is a level of risk in every aspect of and inflation risk see Note 41 in the Financial Statements.
business activity, appropriate consideration of potential The target asset allocation of the principal plan at the yearharm to HSBCs good name must be a part of all business end is shown in the table below.
The principal plan target asset allocation In 2015, we restructured our Reputational Risk sub- 2015 2014 function to increase our focus on the management of % % reputational risk.
With an expanded mandate, the unit is 54 Equities 19.4 19.4 better positioned to provide bespoke advisory services to Bonds 64.5 64.5 the business on reputational risks to the Group and to work 55 Alternative assets 10.6 10.6 with the Financial Crime and Regulatory Compliance teams Property 5.5 5.5 56 to mitigate such risks where possible.
Cash At 31 December 100.0 100.0 Fiduciary risk For footnotes, see page 191.
Fiduciary risk is the risk to the Group of breaching our fiduciary duties when we act in a fiduciary capacity as The latest actuarial valuation of the principal plan was made trustee or investment manager or as mandated by as at 31 December 2011 by C G Singer, Fellow of the Institute law or regulation.
and Faculty of Actuaries, of Willis Towers Watson Limited.
At A fiduciary duty is one where HSBC holds, manages, that date, the market value of the plans assets was 18bn oversees or has responsibility for assets on behalf of a third $28bn including assets relating to both the defined benefit party that involves a legal and or regulatory duty to act and defined contribution sections, and additional voluntary with a high standard of care and with good faith.
This asset value was the same amount as the fiduciary must make decisions and act in the interests of actuary said was needed to meet all future expected benefit payments, based on pensions earned to that date and HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 189 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Other material risks Footnotes allowing for expected future salary increases.
As there was HSBC and the Trustee have developed a general framework no resulting surplus or deficit, there was no need for the which will see the principal plans investment strategy Bank to pay any additional contributions.
become less risky over time.
This is referred to as the Target Matching Portfolio TMP, as it would contain investments In carrying out this assessment, the future expected that closely match the expected benefit payment profile.
pension payments out of the plan were valued with the Progress towards the TMP can be achieved by investment following assumptions: returns or additional funding from HSBC.
In 2013, HSBC future inflation was assumed to be in line with the agreed to make general framework contributions of 64m Retail Price Index RPI swap break-even curve at $95m in each of the calendar years 2013, 2014 and 2015 31 December 2011: and 128m $190m in 2016.
Further contributions had been agreed to be made in future years, which were linked to the salary increases were assumed to be 0.5% above the RPI continued implementation of the general framework.
each year: The 31 December 2014 valuation has been agreed in pensions were assumed to increase in line with the RPI: principle with the Trustee, and is expected to be finalised the projected cash flows were discounted at the Libor by its statutory deadline of 31 March 2016.
The final swap curve at 31 December 2011 plus a margin for the agreement should result in a surplus of circa 500m expected return on the investment strategy of 1.6% a $741m as at the valuation date of 31 December 2014 and year: on the Trustees prudent actuarial assumptions.
The the mortality assumptions were set based on the SAPS general framework implementation has also continued S1 series of tables adjusted to reflect the plans actual such that the conditions on the future contributions would mortality experience over the prior six years 2006 to be removed.
As a result the following payments would be 2011 : and payable in the future: 64m $95m in each of 2017, 2018, 2019, and 160m $237m in each of 2020 and 2021, which mortality rates were also assumed to improve further in in addition to the amounts agreed before would give a the future in line with standard tables of improvements, total of 640m $949m payable from 2016 to 2021. the Continuous Mortality Investigation core projections, The principal plan changed in 2015 and from 30 June but with the additional assumption that the long run members stopped accruing future defined benefits.
Defined improvement rate would not fall below 2% a year for benefit pensions accrued up to 30 June 2015 will retain their men and 1.5% a year for women.
link to employee salaries, underpinned by the Consumer Price The benefits expected to be paid from the defined benefit Index CPI, while members are still employees of the bank.
section from 2016 are shown in the chart below.
To support the establishment of the ServCo group and to ensure that employees transferred retained existing pension Future benefit payments $m benefits, a new section of the principal plan was created with segregated assets and liabilities.
The new section provides ServCo group employees with their defined contribution pension and, where relevant, defined benefit pension benefits arising from future salary increases above CPI.
Defined contribution plans Our global strategy is to move from defined benefit to defined contribution plans, where local law allows and it is considered competitive to do so.
In defined contribution pension plans, the sponsor contributions are known, while the ultimate pension benefit will vary, typically with investment returns achieved by investment choices made by the employee.
While the market risk of defined As part of the 31 December 2011 valuation, the actuary contribution plans is significantly less than that of defined also assessed the amount needed to meet the obligations benefit plans, the Bank is still exposed to operational and of the principal plan if the plan was stopped and an reputational risk.
insurance company was asked to guarantee all future payments.
Because the plan is large, it is unlikely that an Sustainability risk insurance company would be able to do this for the whole Assessing the environmental and social impacts plan, so in practice the Trustee would continue to manage of providing finance to our customers is integral to the plan without further support from HSBC.
The amount our overall risk management processes.
of assets needed under this approach was estimated to be 26bn $41bn.
This is larger than the previous amount In 2015, we continued to implement all of our sustainability because it assumes that people will live for even longer and risk policies.
Our training for risk and relationship managers that the Trustee would adopt a much less risky investment during the year focused on the new policies on agricultural strategy, investing mainly in UK government bonds, which commodities, forestry and World Heritage Sites and Ramsar would have a lower expected investment return.
It also Wetlands, issued in 2014.
Following a recommendation included an explicit allowance for the future administrative by Internal Audit in 2015, we took steps to integrate the expenses of the plan.
management of sustainability risk more fully into the Risk HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 190 Function.
For example, we raised standards of risk analysis manuals: and improved the way sustainability risk is and policy implementation: updated internal instruction recorded in our information management system.
Footnotes to Risk Managing risk 1 The sum of balances presented does not agree to consolidated amounts because inter-company eliminations are not presented here.
Credit risk 2 The amount of the loan commitments reflects, where relevant, the expected level of take-up of pre-approved loan offers made by mailshots to personal customers.
In addition to those amounts, there is a further maximum possible exposure to credit risk of $59bn 2014: $71bn, reflecting the full take-up of loan commitments.
The take-up of such offers is generally at low levels.
At 31 December 2015, the credit quality of loan and other credit-related commitments was: $348bn strong, $180bn good, $129bn satisfactory, $9bn sub-standard and $1bn impaired.
3 Other personal lending includes second lien mortgages and other property-related lending.
4 Other commercial loans and advances includes advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy utilities and ABS reclassified to Loans and advances.
5 Impairment allowances are not reported for financial instruments, for which the carrying amount is reduced directly for impairment and not through the use of an allowance account.
6 Impairment is not measured for assets held in trading portfolios or designated at fair value as assets in such portfolios are managed according to movements in fair value, and the fair value movement is taken directly to the income statement.
Consequently, we report all such balances under Neither past due nor impaired.
7 Loans and advances to customers includes asset-backed securities that have been externally rated as strong 2015: $504m: 2014: $1.2bn, good 2015: $95m: 2014: $256m, satisfactory 2015: $107m: 2014: $332m, sub-standard 2015: $19m: 2014: $94m and impaired 2015: $73m: 2014: $128m.
8 Collection re-age includes loans that are reset to current and any arrears are reset but does not involve any changes to the original terms and conditions of the loan, where the account is brought up-to-date without fully paying the outstanding arrears but after the demonstration of ongoing payment ability.
9 Modification re-age includes loans where there are changes to the original terms and conditions of the loan, either temporarily or permanently, and also resets the contractual delinquency status of an account to current.
10 Collectively assessed impairment allowances are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the allowances or provisions.
11 Included within Exchange and other movements is $2.1bn of impairment allowances reclassified to held for sale 2014: $0.4bn.
12 Of the $2,134m 2014: $2,724m of renegotiated loans, $477m 2014: $608m were neither past due nor impaired, $1m 2014: $1m was past due but not impaired and $1,656m 2014: $2,115m were impaired.
13 Includes balances in Middle East and North Africa that are impaired and past due and therefore considered due on demand.
14 French Banking Federation Master Agreement Relating to Transactions on Forward Financial Instruments plus CSA equivalent.
15 The German Master Agreement for Financial Derivative Transactions.
16 HSBC Finance lending is on a management basis and includes loans transferred to HSBC USA Inc. which are managed by HSBC Finance.
17 Included in this category are loans of $1.2bn 2014: $1.5bn that have been re-aged once and were less than 60 days past due at the point of re-age.
These loans are not classified as impaired following re-age due to the overall expectation that these customers will perform on the original contractual terms of their borrowing in the future.
18 Currency translation is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates of exchange applicable in the current year.
Liquidity and funding 19 The HSBC UK Liquidity Group shown comprises four legal entities: HSBC Bank plc including all overseas branches, and SPEs consolidated by HSBC Bank plc for Financial Statement purposes, Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc, HSBC Private Bank UK Ltd and HSBC Trust Company UK Limited, managed as a single operating entity, in line with the application of UK liquidity regulation as agreed with the UK PRA.
20 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Hong Kong branch and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Singapore branch represent the material activities of the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation.
Each branch is monitored and controlled for liquidity and funding risk purposes as a stand-alone operating entity.
21 The HSBC USA principal entity shown represents the HSBC USA Inc consolidated group: predominantly HSBC USA Inc and HSBC Bank USA, NA.
The HSBC USA Inc consolidated group is managed as a single operating entity.
22 HSBC France and HSBC Canada represent the consolidated banking operations of the Group in France and Canada respectively.
HSBC France and HSBC Canada are each managed as single distinct operating entities for liquidity purposes.
23 The most favourable metrics are smaller advances to core funding and larger stressed one-month and three-month coverage ratios.
24 The total shown for other principal HSBC operating entities represents the combined position of all the other operating entities overseen directly by the Risk Management Meeting of the GMB.
This coverage changed during 2015 and so comparative figures for 2014 have been re-stated to enable a like-for-like comparison.
25 Estimated liquidity value represents the expected realisable value of assets prior to management assumed haircuts.
26 The undrawn balance for the five largest committed liquidity facilities provided to customers other than facilities to conduits.
27 The undrawn balance for the total of all committed liquidity facilities provided to the largest market sector, other than facilities to conduits.
28 The residual contractual maturity profile of the balance sheet is set out on in Note 31 on the Financial Statements.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 191 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Risk continued Footnotes Appendix to Risk Policies and practices Market risk 29 Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from the market-making and warehousing of customer-derived positions.
30 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types.
It represents the reduction in unsystematic market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types, for example, interest rate, equity and foreign exchange, together in one portfolio.
It is measured as the difference between the sum of the VaR by individual risk type and the combined total VaR.
A negative number represents the benefit of portfolio diversification.
As the maximum and minimum occurs on different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit for these measures.
31 The total VaR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.
32 Investments in private equity are primarily made through managed funds that are subject to limits on the amount of investment.
Potential new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio as a whole.
Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments within the portfolio.
33 Investments held to facilitate ongoing business include holdings in government-sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges.
34 Instead of assuming that all interest rates move together, we group our interest rate exposures into currency blocs whose rates are considered likely to move together.
See Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Risk management of insurance operations 35 Other includes term assurance, credit life insurance, universal life insurance and remaining non-life insurance.
36 Although investment contracts with discretionary participation features DPF are financial investments, HSBC continues to account for them as insurance contracts as required by IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
The corresponding liabilities are therefore recorded as liabilities under insurance contracts.
37 Other assets and liabilities shows shareholder assets as well as assets and liabilities classified as held for sale.
The majority of the assets for insurance businesses classified as held for sale are reported as Other assets and investment properties and totalled $4.1bn at 31 December 2015 2014: $6.8bn.
The majority of these assets were debt and equity securities and PVIF.
All liabilities for insurance businesses classified as held for sale are reported in Other liabilities and totalled $3.7bn at 31 December 2015 2014: $6.8bn.
The majority of these liabilities were liabilities under insurance contracts and liabilities under investment contracts.
38 Financial investments held to maturity HTM and available for sale AFS.
39 Comprise mainly loans and advances to banks, cash and intercompany balances with other non-insurance legal entities.
40 Present value of in-force long-term insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF.
41 Deferred tax includes the deferred tax liabilities arising on recognition of PVIF.
42 Does not include associated insurance company SABB Takaful Company or joint venture insurance company Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited.
43 HSBC has no insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in Middle East and North Africa or North America.
44 Comprise unit-linked life insurance contracts and linked long-term investment contracts.
45 Comprise all insurance and long-term investment contracts other than those classified as unit-linked.
46 A block of contracts in France with guaranteed nominal annual returns in the range 1.25%-3.72% are reported entirely in the 2.0%-4.0% category in line with the average guaranteed return of 2.7% offered to policyholders by these contracts.
47 Real annual return guarantees provide the policyholder a guaranteed return in excess of the rate of inflation, and are supported by inflation-linked debt securities with yields that are also expressed in real terms.
48 Where a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve would result in a negative interest rate, the effects on profit after tax and total equity have been calculated using a minimum rate of 0%.
49 Shareholders funds comprise solvency and unencumbered assets.
50 Non-linked insurance comprises all insurance contracts other than unit-linked, including remaining non-life business.
51 In most cases, policyholders have the option to terminate their contracts at any time and receive the surrender values of their policies.
These may be significantly lower than the amounts shown.
52 Insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF can give policyholders the contractual right to receive, as a supplement to their guaranteed benefits, additional benefits that may be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits, but whose amount and timing are determined by HSBC.
These additional benefits are contractually based on the performance of a specified pool of contracts or assets, or the profit of the company issuing the contracts.
53 Other includes term assurance, universal life assurance and remaining non-life insurance.
Pension risk 54 In 2014, option overlay strategies which are expected to improve the risk return profile of the equity allocation were implemented.
55 Alternative assets include ABSs, MBSs and infrastructure assets.
56 Whilst there is no target cash allocation, the amount of cash is expected to vary between 0%-5% depending upon the liquidity requirements of the scheme, which will affect the actual allocation of bonds correspondingly.
