Strategic Report Risk overview We actively manage risk to protect and enable the business.
Managing risk As a provider of banking and financial The strategic actions designed to increase responsibilities and processes.
Global services, managing risk is part of our core our return on equity are described on Risk, led by the Group Chief Risk day-to-day activities.
Our success in doing page 18.
Officer, who is an executive Director, so is due to our clear risk appetite, which is responsible for enterprise-wide risk To ensure that risks are managed in is aligned to our strategy.
We set out the oversight and is independent from a consistent way across the Group, we aggregate level and types of risk that we the sales and trading functions of the employ a risk management framework are willing to accept in order to achieve Groups businesses.
This independence that is applicable to all levels of the our mediumand long-term strategic ensures the necessary balance in risk organisation and across all risk types.
objectives in our risk appetite statement, return decisions.
It sets out governance and structures, which is approved by the Board, covering: risks that we accept as part of doing business, such as credit risk and Key risk appetite metrics market risk: Component Measure Risk appetite 2015 risks that we incur to generate income, Returns Return on average ordinary shareholders equity 10% 7.2% such as operational risk and capital and in excess of our estimated cost of equity of 9% liquidity risk, which are managed to remain below an acceptable tolerance: Capital Common equity tier 1 ratio CRD IV end point basis 10% 11.9% and Liquidity HSBC consolidated balance sheet advances-to- 90% 72% risks that we have zero tolerance for, deposits ratio such as reputational risk.
1 Loan RBWM loan impairment charges as % of advances 0.65% 0.58% Our risk management framework impairment and its key components, and our exposure Wholesale loan impairment charges as 0.45% 0.26% charges to risks arising from the business activities % of advances of the global businesses are shown on pages 1 101 and 109, respectively.
Including the loans of the Brazilian operations held for sale.
Risk management and stress testing Stress testing is an integral component We also participate in regulatory stress The results were published by the Bank of our risk management framework.
test exercises in a number of jurisdictions.
of England on 1 December 2015 and It is an important tool for us to assess The primary Group-wide exercise is are summarised below.
Our CET1 ratio potential vulnerabilities in our businesses, requested by the Bank of England.
The remained well above the regulatory business model or portfolios.
It allows us 2015 scenario incorporated a synchronised minimum despite our significant to understand the sensitivities of the core global downturn affecting Asia, Brazil and presence in the countries and regions assumptions in our strategic and capital the eurozone in particular, a reduction in affected by the scenario, demonstrating plans, and improve decision-making global risk appetite and market liquidity, our resilience to a severe stress situation through balancing risk and return.
Internal stress test scenarios are closely aligned to our assessment of top and 2015 Bank of England Stress Test Results group Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio emerging risks.
The potential impact from these scenarios, were they to occur, may 31 december 2014 actual end point 11.1% prompt pre-emptory management actions including a reduction in limits or direct Minimum stressed ratio before management actions 7.0% exposures, or closer monitoring of Minimum stressed ratio after management actions 7.7% exposures sensitive to stress.
Our approach to stress testing and Bank of England minimum ratio 4.5% the results of regulatory stress testing programmes are discussed on pages 103 31 december 2015 actual end point 11.9% and 116, respectively.
HSBC HOLdINgS PLC 42 Risk overview Top and emerging risks We employ a top and emerging risks Our current top and emerging risks framework at all levels of the organisation are summarised below.
to identify current and forward-looking During 2015, we made two changes to risks so that we may take action that our top and emerging risks to reflect our either prevents them materialising or assessment of their effect on the Group.
Turning of the credit cycle was added as a Top risks are those that may have a new risk, reflecting the risk of deterioration material impact on the financial results, in the credit environment.
Internet crime Our top and emerging risks reputation or business model of the Group and fraud was removed as mitigating are discussed in more detail in the year ahead.
Emerging risks are those actions taken have reduced credit and on page 110. that have large unknown components and fraud losses through digital channels.
may form beyond a one-year horizon.
If In addition, four risks were renamed to these risks were to occur, they could have better reflect the issues facing HSBC.
We use the new names below.
Risk Trend Mitigants Externally driven Economic outlook We closely monitor economic developments in key markets, undertaking business or portfolio and capital flows reviews or stress tests as required, and take appropriate action as circumstances evolve.
Geopolitical risk We continuously assess the impact of the geopolitical outlook on our country limits and exposures to ensure we remain within our risk appetite.
Turning of the credit cycle We undertook portfolio and limit reviews and conducted stress tests on the sectors and portfolios that are most sensitive to the credit cycle.
Regulatory developments We actively assess the effect of relevant developments and engage closely with governments affecting our business and regulators, seeking to ensure that requirements are considered properly and implemented model and profitability in an effective manner.
US DPA and related We are continuing to take concerted action to remedy anti-money laundering and sanctions agreements and compliance deficiencies and to implement Global Standards.
consent orders Regulatory focus on We are enhancing our financial crime and regulatory compliance controls and resources and conduct of business are implementing significant programmes to enhance the management of conduct and financial and financial crime crime risks.
Dispute risk We continue to focus on identifying emerging regulatory and judicial trends, and sharing lessons learned globally in an effort to avoid or limit future litigation exposure.
Cyber threat and We continue to improve our governance and controls framework to protect HSBCs information and unauthorised access technical infrastructure against ever-increasing and sophisticated cyber threats.
to systems Internally driven People risk We continue to focus on attracting and retaining key talent and are implementing a number of initiatives to improve employee capability, collaboration and engagement.
Execution risk We have strengthened our prioritisation and governance processes for significant strategic, regulatory and compliance projects.
Risks related to the disposals of our operations in Brazil and Turkey were subject to close management oversight.
Third-party risk We are enhancing our third-party risk management governance, processes and procedures management and have conducted enhanced risk assessments of our most critical third parties.
Model risk We have strengthened our governance framework, created centralised global analytical functions and recruited additional subject matter experts in our modelling and independent model review teams.
Data management A number of key initiatives and projects are in progress to implement our data strategy to enable consistent data aggregation, reporting and management.
Risk heightened during 2015 Risk remained at the same level as 2014 HSBC HOLdINgS PLC 43 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
