Strategic report Risk management ICAP risk management is a fundamental part of the Groups strategy ICAPs risk profile ICAP recognises nine core risk categories: strategic, operational, liquidity, reputational, credit, legal and compliance, cross-risk, financial and market.
ICAPs profile of these risks is continually evolving driven by: changes in the markets within which we operate: ICAPs strategies and business objectives: and ICAPs business operating models.
Consistently ICAP seeks to generate attractive returns through informed risk taking and robust risk management.
As such the effective management and control of both the upside of risk taking and its potential downside is a fundamental core competency of the Group.
Protecting revenue and reputation The Group does not intend or expect to take material losses during the ordinary course of its activities.
This is because of its fee and commission earning business model.
It does not wish to expose itself to material credit or market risks and does not intentionally hold or deal in assets that stay on its balance sheet for any longer than the normal settlement cycle on the occasions when it is Wendy Phillis involved in matched principal or exchange-traded broking.
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer The Group does not leverage the balance sheet in any material way during the provision of its services.
Its earnings are predominantly During the past financial year our risk and compliance attributable to fees and commissions based on levels of customer focus has included: further embedding of our conduct activity and usage of its services.
The Group proactively seeks to agenda evaluating the expected professional behaviour invest in and develop innovative products and services.
of our employees: assessing and managing actively our ICAP actively manages its Group-wide risks to protect against credit exposure during market turmoil, in particular in unexpected variance in the cost and revenue streams and the Latin America and EMEA: developing capital mitigation negative impacts to the reputation of the Group.
approaches for extreme but plausible risks: and building Key Group risk management themes during the financial year were: out our risk functions capabilities.
ensuring strategic objectives for product expansion, growth Looking forward to the coming year we expect markets and re-focus of our market leading franchises are market conditions to remain challenging with ongoing appropriate to our risk appetites and capabilities: focus on credit exposure: development of new and continuing to maintain a strong balance sheet: existing markets and products: demands of regulatory keeping pace with and leveraging business opportunities created changes, in particular MiFID II, requiring assessment by the dynamic regulatory environments within which ICAP of threats and opportunities: and further enhancement operates: to our risk-based capital management process and active assessment of ICAPs credit exposures during stressed improvements to business intelligence provided to market conditions: key stakeholders.
strengthening our ICAAP to ensure appropriate cover for material risks in stressed conditions: and reinforcing culture and conduct through positive risk behaviours, monitoring and training.
24 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Governance and the risk management framework The board has overall responsibility for the governance of ICAPs Stressed markets risk management and ensures there are adequate and effective internal systems of control with clear responsibilities for the setting first and second line of risk appetites, the identification and assessment of risks, their monitoring, reporting and mitigation.
During 2014 15, focus has working together included risk appetite development, risk-based capital adequacy, culture and conduct risk.
Global events and deteriorating economic conditions in the eurozone and Latin America have led to ICAP executing Risk appetite additional due diligence in respect of stressed market conditions The board sets and monitors risk appetite through the nine risk during 2014 15.
Argentina experienced its second sovereign categories: strategic, operational, liquidity, reputational, credit, default within the past 20 years: both Brazil and Venezuela legal and compliance, cross-risk, financial and market.
were downgraded by nationally recognised statistical rating organisations, while in Europe the decoupling of the Swiss Each year ICAPs risk appetite statements and respective limits are franc from the euro led to significant market volatilities, and set alongside its strategic plans, recognising the key drivers of the the threat of a Greek exit from the European single currency risks ICAP expects to face as a Group in the coming 12 months.
had financial institutions refreshing their contingency plans.
Risk management framework Under these stressed market conditions, for all of the above ICAPs risk management framework is designed to identify, countries and factoring in potential contagion consequences, assess, monitor, report and mitigate the risks that could impact ICAPs risk management team has worked in step with business the ability to execute our strategy and meet our stakeholders heads globally to target ICAPs risks, providing additional expectations.
To ensure a consistent risk management approach evaluation of the exposure by leveraging market intelligence globally, the framework is used across all risk disciplines with the in the liquidity and volatilities in underlying instruments, and following pillars: support mitigation strategies by the provision of accurate Governance in addition to appropriate governance at all business intelligence.
Working together, both first and second levels of the Group as detailed in the corporate governance lines of defence helped maintain a stable environment during statement, this pillar incorporates risk appetite responsibilities, these uncertain conditions.
the completeness of our risk taxonomy, roles and responsibilities within three lines of defence and the continued fostering of the corporate risk management culture.
Policy and methodologies clear principle-based policies for our key risks reflecting the boards risk appetite, supported by clear standards for the identification, evaluation and treatment of risk.
Operating requirements include the procedural guidance for the effective execution of our risk policies, organisational responsibilities, design and use of our risk management systems and reporting and escalation of risk.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 25 Strategic report Risk management continued Three lines of defence The following areas have been of particular focus for the Group The Groups governance structure is designed such that the and continue to be so: business is the first line of defence, the risk management and active market threat management, including both discrete compliance departments the second line of defence with internal and macro-wide analysis to support the business, for example audit representing the third line of defence.
Greek euro, Argentinian defaults, Ukraine Russia sanctions: First line of defence: the business is responsible for the supporting the evaluation and application of the new regulatory identification, control and management of its own risks.
requirements on the Groups business and operating strategies: Second line of defence: the risk management and compliance embedding the Groups culture and conduct agenda through departments ensure that well designed risk and compliance development of a compliance framework and testing: frameworks are in place for the first line to facilitate its risk management responsibilities and provide independent oversight continuing to enhance stress testing capabilities across all and challenge of the execution and risk profile of the business.
risk disciplines, particularly focusing on Group-wide risks and strengthening the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Third line of defence: internal audit provides independent testing Process, and verification of business line compliance as well as assurance that the risk management process is functioning as designed.
strengthening the risk function with subject matter expertise supporting the Groups three divisions to enhance understanding A key aspect of the three lines of defence model is that of divisional risk profiles: senior management, in particular those with the responsibility for front office, support functions and Group functions, have full enhancing the measurement of Group risks by development accountability for the management of the risks in their specific of an enterprise risk framework, including refining risk appetite businesses.
This is done within the limits and the control environment statements and measures across and into the businesses: established by the Group.
All staff and managers are required to operational risk framework enhancements to improve analysis take a prudent approach to risk taking and to review regularly the of risks and provide enhanced business intelligence for tactical effectiveness of their control environment and compliance with and strategic decision making.
The Groups risk management processes must be dynamic, reflecting changes in the Groups strategies and the external risk drivers in the global market in which it operates.
Our Our Risk strategies ICAPs risk management framework values appetites and goals Our current and How we operate Respect for Third line of defence future targets control Governance Second line of defence Risk management framework Risks we face external Policies and methodologies Risks we take Risks we face internal Policy standards, guidance and training First line of defence Operating requirements: roles and responsibilities, supervision, procedures, systems and controls 26 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions The following table summarises those risks of principal importance to ICAP over the financial period, their key drivers, Group appetite and key mitigating actions.
Principal Group risks Importance to ICAP Key drivers Mitigation Strategic risk The risk arising from inappropriate strategic To ensure ICAP remains competitive in its Regulatory landscape Business case and risk assessment decisions that fail to reflect the full business chosen strategic markets, identifying and impacting our business or of significant business initiatives.
operating environments, and full impacts on optimising commercial opportunities our customers businesses.
Defined product, country, client execution, or fail to adequately or timely requires ICAP to assess the risks, rewards Commercial market strategies.
identify changes to the business model.
and costs associated with each.
Surveillance of market, regulatory Strategic risks generally manifest over Internal business operating landscape and customer demand.
a medium timeframe allowing corrective model.
Appetite ICAP will innovate and grow through considered initiatives and acquisitions that are scalable, experience positive switching network effects or show a competitive advantage.
Operational risk ICAP maintains an operational risk The risk of loss resulting from inadequate ICAPs reputation is built on strong Internal business framework, with independent risk or failed internal processes, people and execution of service.
systems, or from external events.
identifies, monitors and controls the risk External threats.
that its people, process or systems fails Timely escalation and mitigation Market conditions.
leading to a reduction in the quality of of risk events.
service to our customers and an increase Provision of training and guidance.
Information security breach Operational risks could manifest monitoring.
Critical technology performance Appetite monitoring.
ICAP will take measures to identify and Risk scenario contingency planning.
proportionally manage operational risk to a desired level through mitigating systems, processes and controls, but recognises operational risk is inherent in its business activities.
Liquidity risk The risk that the Group or any of its entities ICAP has short-term liquidity Operational risk.
Periodic reviews including going does not have sufficient liquid resources or is requirements arising from settlement concern assessments.
unable to deploy such resources to meet its and clearing arrangements, in the form Use of financial institutions for Internal business actual or potential obligations in a timely of collateral and margin requirements for clearing access.
clearing houses or financial institutions $250 million of committed liquidity providing clearing access.
It is possible held centrally for same and next large liquidity demands can arise on the day utilisation.
same or next day, due to reasons beyond Contingency funding arrangements ICAPs direct control.
The Group ensures and procedures in place.
adequate liquidity resources are maintained to meet these requirements in support of its trading activities.
Longer-term requirements arise in relation to the timing of the Groups operating cash inflows against outflows, principally for capital expenditure and dividends.
The Group maintains a diversified funding base with sufficient committed headroom to forecast requirements.
Appetite ICAP will have sufficient and accessible financial resources so as to meet financial obligations as they fall due.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 27 Strategic report Risk management continued Principal Group risks Importance to ICAP Key drivers Mitigation Reputational risk The risk that the Group fails to meet ICAP remains focused on maintaining Operational risk.
Active assessment via investor expectations of stakeholders, is unable to and constantly strengthening relationship surveys, media surveys, Regulatory risk build or sustain relationships with customers, relationships with shareholders, employee statistics.
incurs regulatory censure or experiences customers, regulators, lenders, clearing Culture and conduct training Strategic risk.
more costly access to funding sources.
and settlement providers, market and monitoring.
Reputation risk can manifest over the near term with long-term impacts.
Appetite ICAP will adhere to its core values and fulfil its corporate responsibilities by ensuring it acts responsibly, ethically and with integrity.
Credit risk The risk of a financial loss due to the failure While ICAP enters into transactions only Market conditions.
of a customer to meet its obligation to settle when executing on behalf of customers, Counterparty credit Credit limits.
providing customer access to clearing or worthiness.
Risk scenario and stress provides additional fee-based services, contingency planning.
there does exist short-term credit exposure prior to clearing and settlements, and outstanding receivables risk that ICAP manages.
Appetite ICAP will engage only in activities which it believes will not result in loss due to credit risk.
Legal and compliance risk Legal risk arises from defective transactions, ICAP operates in multiple jurisdictions Multiple and dynamic ICAP has internal legal and compliance failing to take appropriate measures to and remains focused on ensuring they regulatory regimes.
departments which act as independent protect assets, changes in law and or breach recognise and respect the rules and advisory and investigation functions Regulatory risks of law or acceptable practice and claims laws to which they are held.
ICAP also to enable and defend the Groups conduct risk.
resulting in a liability or loss to a company ies recognises that the conduct of the Group strategic aims.
Both legal policies within the Group.
and its employees is of paramount and compliance risk management importance to its strategic aims frameworks strengthen this defence.
Compliance risk is the risk of material loss, and reputation.
regulatory sanctions or reputational damage Advice is regularly taken from arising from the failure to comply with Legal and compliance risk can manifest appropriately qualified external relevant regulatory requirements.
over the near and long term.
Appetite Training is provided to staff on ICAP will ensure it has in place the an ongoing basis.
necessary processes, controls and Culture and conduct training frameworks in order to comply with legal and monitoring.
and regulatory requirements: ICAP will use appropriate external legal advisors for contentious matters and litigation.
For the avoidance of doubt, ICAP has no appetite for legal or regulatory breaches.
28 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions In addition to the principal risks the Group also recognises and actively manages the following Group risks: Other Group risks Importance to ICAP Key drivers Mitigation Cross-risk The risk that the Group and its divisions fails In support of achieving its commercial ICAPs credit worthiness.
Predictability of earnings discipline to maintain its commercial targets due to targets, ICAP works diligently with all is applied to existing performance Market competition.
either internal or external factors.
stakeholders to identify all threats and new business proposals.
Maintenance of ICAPs external Appetite credit rating.
ICAP will monitor its internal and external environment in order to maintain stable and robust financial performance over the long term.
Financial risk The risk that the Group is exposed to Interest rate risk from the Groups Market rates.
Details of the Groups management significant losses due to adverse movements exposure to rate fluctuations on cash of interest rate and currency risks Trading volume.
in interest and exchange rates.
are contained in notes 9 and 28 to the Geographic profile.
Currency translation risk arising from the Regulatory and working conversion of foreign currency needed to Established Group policies for the capital requirements.
pound sterling for the preparation of ICAP management of interest rate and plcs consolidated financial statements.
Currency risk for the Groups entities Long-term debt raised with fixed arising from transactions, assets or rates with the option to swap to liabilities denominated in a foreign variable rates.
currency for an individual entity.
Quarterly review of currency Appetite exposures and hedging levels.
ICAP will manage its financial risks in accordance with approved policies for the Group.
Market risk Risk of losses in on and off-balance sheet ICAP does not actively take market risk.
Volume and complexity Monitoring and timely mitigation positions arising from adverse movements Where it does arise this is due to failures of trade booking.
in our expected business processes, Market movements Exposure modelling.
identified and treated as operational risk.
Appetite ICAP will not engage in proprietary trading or actively seek market exposure and will actively reduce any incidental market exposure resulting from its activities as soon as reasonably practicable.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 29 Strategic report Risk management continued While facing the same inherent risks to which the Group as a whole Each division is responsible for the management of its risks.
The is exposed, the business models, markets and risk profiles of the risk and compliance functions provide independent oversight and divisions are unique.
ICAPs risk management and governance subject matter challenge to the first line in support of its risk frameworks are designed to support the top down assessment of management responsibilities.
risk for the Group, as well as supporting relevant business decision The key risks faced by each division in the 2014 15 financial year making and risk management of the revenue generating entities.
are set out below: Division risk drivers Key changes Risks Electronic Markets Relationships customers, employees.
Strategic reputation risk failure to deliver existing or new products, competition.
Infrastructure including for clearing and Stressed market conditions.
Operational risk failure in its provision of Regulatory landscape.
Protect and grow market share.
Credit liquidity risk material intra-day liquidity Short-term credit exposure to customers prior demands for settlement margin.
Regulatory risk maintaining and receiving licence Liquidity to settle trades and meet margin calls.
to operate in chosen jurisdictions.
Post Trade Risk and Information Relationships customers, employees.
Regulatory risk upstream requirements e. g. MiFID II.
Operational risk failure to manage market and client data integrity and run processes completely, accurately and in a timely fashion.
Global Broking Relationships customers, employees.
Regulatory risk upstream requirements e. g. MiFID II, conduct risk.
Infrastructure including for clearing and Focus on leading franchises.
Strategic risk market consolidation, Cost management.
Credit risk stressed market conditions.
Short-term credit exposure to customers in the settlement cycle typically T 3 days.
Liquidity to settle trades and meet margin calls.
