STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES EXTERNAL RISKS RISK IMPACT MITIGATION AND MOVEMENT IN THE YEAR MACROECONOMIC RISK Failure to execute Adverse macroeconomic conditions The Board regularly receives detailed market reports, the Groups could reduce the opportunity to reviewing the latest developments in the Groups key markets.
strategic priorities deploy capital and impair the ability The Investment Committees receive ongoing detailed and due to unforeseen of the Group to manage effectively specific market reviews for each investment.
macroeconomic its portfolios, reducing the value of During the year the economic indicators in Europe and other changes future management fees, investment key markets are stable or improving.
2 3 LIQUIDITY RISK Failure to refinance An ongoing failure to refinance its The Group has a policy which seeks to ensure that debt funding debt as it falls due liabilities could result in the Group is obtained from diversified sources and that the repayment failing to meet its payment obligations profile is managed to minimise material repayment events.
As a result the Group 1 During the year the Group has renewed and increased its would not be a going concern.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Reputational The Groups ability to raise new funds The Group has a governance structure in place, supported by damage due to a and operate its fund management a risk framework that allows for the identification, control and regulatory failing business would be impaired as a mitigation of material risks resulting from the geographical result of a regulatory failing.
and product diversity of the Group.
The adequacy of the systems and controls the Group has in place to comply with 1 the regulations and to mitigate the risks that these represent is periodically assessed.
This includes a tailored compliance monitoring programme that specifically addresses regulatory and reputational risks.
During the year the continued expansion of the Groups product portfolio and increasing product complexity has led to increased regulatory risk.
MARKET RISK Business risk as a result The Group is exposed to loss The Group has a policy which seeks to ensure that any of exposure to market as a result of adverse market non-sterling income, expenditure, assets and liabilities are movements fluctuations in foreign exchange appropriately hedged and that the residual exposure to market rates and interest rates.
risk is managed to minimise volatility in the financial results of the Group.
3 During the year the Group has applied its hedging policy consistently.
40 41 BUSINESS CASE STUDIES MARKETPLACE PERFORMANCE RISKS RESOURCES & ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 MODEL & STRATEGY RELATIONSHIPS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED INTERNAL RISKS RISK IMPACT MITIGATION AND MOVEMENT IN THE YEAR BUSINESS RISKS Failure to raise third A failure to raise new funds would The Group has built dedicated fundraising and scalable party funds reduce the Groups long term infrastructure teams to grow and diversify its institutional income from fund management client base by geography and type.
fees, performance fees and 1 The Group has expanded its product portfolio to address a carried interest.
range of investor requirements and continues to build a strong product pipeline.
A record level of fundraising was achieved during the year across a range of products.
Failure to deploy capital Failure to deploy capital reduces The rate of investment is kept under review by the Investment committed the value of future management fees, Committees and senior management to ensure acceptable levels investment income, performance are maintained in current market conditions.
2 In a competitive landscape the Group has continued to deploy funds in line with the expected run rate during the year.
Failure to maintain Failure to maintain adequate The Group has disciplined investment policies and all acceptable investment performance in the funds may result in investments are selected and regularly monitored by the performance across a failure to raise new funds, reducing Groups Investment Committees.
Disciplined credit procedures the majority of funds the Groups long term income from are applied both before and during the period of investment.
fund management fees, performance The Group limits the extent of credit risk by diversifying its fees and carried interest.
Investors portfolio assets by sector, size and geography.
3 in open ended funds may reduce or Continued focus by senior management and executives ensures cancel their commitments, reducing maximum recovery is achieved.
AUM and fund management fees.
During the year the Group has maintained its investment performance.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS RISK IMPACT MITIGATION AND MOVEMENT IN THE YEAR LIQUIDITY RISK Failure of the Group In the event that the Group breached The Group continually monitors forecast covenant levels.
to meet its debt its covenants, the lenders could The Board reviews the forecast and actual position on covenants potentially call on their commitments.
During the year the Group has not identified any forecasted 1 covenant breach.
OPERATIONAL RISK Unplanned loss of one Breach of any Key Man clause or The Group rewards its investment professionals and other or more key employees unexpected loss of one or more key key employees in line with market practice.
Senior investment employees could result in the Group professionals typically receive long term incentives and carried having to stop making investments for interest as part of their remuneration.
The Group periodically 2 the relevant fund or may impair the engages external consultants to benchmark the rewards offered ability of the Group to raise new funds.
by the Group to ensure they remain attractive and competitive.
The Group has an appraisal and development process for all its employees to ensure that individuals remain sufficiently motivated and appropriately competent to ensure the ongoing operation and development of the business.
There was no significant impact in the year as a result of the loss of any employee.
