BUSINESS CASE STUDIES MARKETPLACE PERFORMANCE RISKS RESOURCES & ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 MODEL & STRATEGY RELATIONSHIPS MANAGING RISK TO DELIVER OUR STRATEGY Effective risk management is critical to enable us to deliver our strategic priorities.
year can be found in the Risk Committee of risks in each area of the business and OUR APPROACH report on page 68.
An internal audit function ensures risk management controls are Risk management is the responsibility was established during the year to provide embedded in the business operations.
of the Board and is integral to the ability independent assurance that the Groups The Risk Committee monitors these of the Group to deliver on its strategic risk management, governance and internal processes, reviewing the Risk Register priorities.
The Board establishes the culture control processes are operating effectively.
and reporting material risks to the Board.
of effective risk management throughout Further details of the activities of internal audit In identifying risks, consideration is also given the business by identifying and monitoring can be found in the Audit Committee and Risk to risks identified by other asset managers the material risks, setting risk appetite and Committee reports on pages 59 and 68. in the sector and regulatory expectations.
determining the risk tolerances of the Group.
The materiality and severity of each risk is The Board is responsible for establishing IDENTIFYING AND MONITORING assessed through a combination of each risks and maintaining appropriate systems and MATERIAL RISKS likelihood of an adverse outcome and its controls to manage risk within the Group impact.
In assessing impact, consideration is Material risks are identified through a and to ensure compliance with regulation.
given to financial, reputational and regulatory detailed analysis of individual processes The Groups risk management systems are factors, the impact on management resources and procedures bottom up approach regularly monitored by the Risk Committee and risk mitigation plans established.
and a consideration of the strategy and under delegation from the Board.
The Risk The top down review, led by the Risk operating environment of the Group Committee is responsible for overseeing Committee, evaluates the material risks top down approach.
the effectiveness of the internal control of the Group with reference to its strategy The bottom up review encompasses the environment of the Group.
Details of the and the operating environment.
identification, management and monitoring activities of the Risk Committee in this financial The Group considers its material VIABILITY STATEMENT risks are as follows: The Directors confirm that they have a portfolio.
The plan is stress tested in reasonable expectation that the Group a robust downside scenario as part BUSINESS RISK will continue to operate and meets its of the Boards review of the Groups INCLUDING CREDIT RISK liabilities, as they fall due, for the next Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment three years.
The Directors assessment Process ICAAP.
The stress test The risk of loss resulting from the failure has been made with reference to the uses the 2008 09 financial crisis to meet the businesss strategic priorities.
Groups current position and prospects, as its basis, thereby reflecting the the Groups strategy, the Boards risk principal risks of the business, primarily MACROECONOMIC RISK appetite and the Groups principal risks through reducing new funds raised, The financial risk of loss arising as a result and how these are managed, as detailed lowering the deployment of capital and of economic uncertainty, macroeconomic in the Strategic Report.
The strategy and associated principal The three year plan review is risks underpin the Groups three year underpinned by the regular Board LIQUIDITY RISK plan and scenario testing, which the briefings provided by the business Directors review at least annually.
unit heads and the discussion of any The risk of loss resulting from an inability The three year plan is built on a fund new strategies undertaken by the to meet financial commitments as they by fund basis using a bottom up model.
Board in its normal course of business.
The three year plan makes certain These reviews consider both the market assumptions about the launch and opportunity and the associated risks, OPERATIONAL RISK investment of successor funds and principally the ability to raise third party The risk of loss resulting from inadequate new strategies, the ability to refinance funds and invest capital.
These risks or failed internal processes, people and debt as it falls due and the acceptable are considered within the Boards risk systems, or from external events.
performance of the underlying appetite framework.
