38 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The directors have undertaken a robust, systematic we continued to face a challenging external assessment of the Groups principal risks including those environment, particularly from changing regulation and that threaten its business model, future performance, competition.
Internally, our operational governance solvency or liquidity.
These have been considered within framework and risk management processes are the time frame of three years which aligns with our continually improved to ensure the business operates viability statement on page 41.
Effective management within Board-approved levels of risk appetite.
The of risks, uncertainties and opportunities is critical to our effectiveness of operating these processes is monitored business in order to deliver long-term shareholder value by the Audit and Risk Committee on behalf of the Board.
and protect our people, assets and reputation.
In 2015, The risks facing the business by risk category are: Risk category Definition Risks Description The risk that we cannot Regulatory Changes to and MARKET CONDITIONS identify, respond to, comply compliance with laws with or take advantage of and regulations external market conditions.
Adapting to competitive Competition and product environment proposition Funding Funding availability to meet business needs Interest rate Market volatility impacting performance Currency and asset values Counterparty Loss of banking partner Taxation Changes to, or interpretation of, tax legislation World economic Adapting to economic environment conditions The risk that key Reputation Reputational damage STAKEHOLDER stakeholders take a Customer service Maintenance of negative view of the customer service business as a direct standards result of our actions or our inability to effectively manage their perception of the Group.
The risk of unacceptable Credit Customers fail to repay OPERATIONAL losses as a result of Safety Harm to our agents inadequacies or failures employees in our internal core People Quantity calibre processes, systems of people or people behaviours.
Service disruption and Recoverability and information security security of systems and processes Financial and Failure of financial performance reporting reporting systems Technology Maintenance of effective technology Fraud Theft or fraud loss The risk that our earnings New market Growth of our footprint BUSINESS are impacted adversely and acquisition and operations DEVELOPMENT by a sub-optimal business Change management Delivery of strategic strategy or the sub-optimal initiatives implementation of that Brand Strength of our strategy, both due to customer brands internal or external factors.
Risks currently considered as the key risks facing the Group by the Board.
Strategic Report International Personal Finance plc 39 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 As at the year end, the Board considered that there are 14 key risks which require ongoing focus noted with asterisks in the table above.
Nine of these are considered to be the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Risk Relevance to strategy Mitigation Commentary REGULATORY 1 2 3 4 We suffer losses or fail to Changes in regulation, We have highly skilled and Lead responsibility: optimise profitable growth differences in interpretation or experienced legal and public Chief Executive Officer due to a failure to operate in clarification enforcement of affairs teams at Group level See Chief Executive Officers compliance with, or effectively laws not previously enforced and in each of our markets.
review and Operational review anticipate changes in, all by courts and other bodies Expert third party advisors for details of key regulatory applicable laws and can lead to challenge of are used where necessary.
changes in Poland and regulations, or a regulator our products practices.
Strong relationships are interpreting these in a We must keep up to speed maintained with regulators A number of legislative and different way.
with legal and regulatory and other stakeholders.
regulatory changes continue developments to ensure we Objective to be proposed and debated, Co-ordinated legal and public maintain compliance, can particularly in Europe.
As stated We aim to ensure that effective affairs teams, at a Group level remain competitive and provide elsewhere in this report, these arrangements are in place to and in each market, monitor value for our customers.
have had a significant impact enable us to comply with legal political, legislative and on our businesses in Poland and regulatory obligations Likelihood regulatory developments.
The business is and take assessed and fully The frequency of legal and adapting, where possible, to informed commercial risks.
regulatory change and the changes announced in 2015 likelihood of challenge vary but the scale of the risk remains by market.
In 2015, notable substantial and we must changes occurred in Poland, continue to be vigilant and Slovakia and Romania.
Further enhancements to our approach to governing this risk are planned in early 2016 including increased level of monitoring of regulatory matters, strengthened anticipation and engagement capabilities in-market and renewed association and sector reputation strategy.
To comply with new legislation, our agents in Romania were made employees.
KEY Expanding our footprint Risk environment improving 1 Risk environment remains stable Improving customer engagement 2 Risk environment worsening Developing a sales culture 3 Effective execution 4 40 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk Relevance to strategy Mitigation Commentary COMPETITION 1 2 3 4 AND PRODUCT PROPOSITION We suffer losses or fail to In an environment of increasing Regular monitoring of Lead responsibility: optimise profitable growth competition and broadening competitors and their offerings Chief Executive Officer through not responding to customer choice, ensuring in our markets.
Competition continues the competitive environment or our product meets customers Competitor advertising and to increase.
failing to ensure our proposition needs is critical to delivering share of voice monitored.
The growth of IPF Digital meets customer needs.
Regular surveys of customer continues to diversify Objective Likelihood views on our product offerings.
We aim to ensure we Competition varies by Product development We have launched a significant understand competitive threats market.
In 2015, the impact committees established number of new product and deliver customer focused of competitive activity, both across the Group to manage offerings in 2015 within the products to drive growth.
from home credit and digital product change and introduce home credit markets, allowing lenders, was particularly notable new products.
in Poland, Lithuania, Czech Republic and Slovakia.
REPUTATION 1 2 3 Lead responsibility: We suffer financial or Our reputation can have Group Reputation and Chief Executive Officer reputational damage due an impact on both customer Regulation Committee.
to our methods of operation, sentiment and the engagement Our businesses continue to Clearly defined corporate ill-informed comment or of key stakeholders, impacting achieve awards for ethical values and ethical standards malpractice.
which are communicated throughout the organisation.
Objective Likelihood In light of the regulatory challenges and impending Regular monitoring of We aim to promote a positive We maintain strong relationships legislative changes being faced, reputation indicators.
reputation that will enable with stakeholders across the we continue to communicate the Group to achieve its Group in order to minimise the our position to investors and strategic aims.
likelihood of an event leading other key stakeholders.
KEY Expanding our footprint Risk environment improving 1 Risk environment remains stable Improving customer engagement 2 Risk environment worsening Developing a sales culture 3 Effective execution 4 Strategic Report International Personal Finance plc 41 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Risk Relevance to strategy Mitigation Commentary SAFETY 3 4 The risk of personal accident Group and market committees Lead responsibility: A significant element of to, or assault of, our agents and annual safety survey.
Chief Executive Officer our business model involves or employees.
our agents and employees Bi-annual risk mapping for each We continued to make progress interacting with our customers agency including mitigation in our safety management Objective in their homes or travelling to planning and field safety training.
systems throughout 2015 and We aim to maintain adequate numerous locations daily.
Their now hold OHSAS certification Annual self-certification of safety arrangements that reduce safety is paramount to us.
in all established home compliance by managers.
the risks to be as low as is credit businesses.
Safety continues to be a The likelihood of an individual Role-specific training and significant area of focus for incident depends on many competence matrix.
factors including the local Safety management systems environment.
We strive to ensure based on internationally that our agents and employees recognised standards.
can carry out their work without risk of harm.
PEOPLE 1 3 4 Our strategy is impacted by Our Strategy for Growth People and Organisational Lead responsibility: not having sufficient depth includes plans to expand Planning process operating Chief Executive Officer and quality of people or being our footprint both in existing throughout the Group.
Our people strategy focuses unable to retain key people and and new markets.
Group-wide personal on creating a culture of high treat them in accordance with In order to achieve this growth, development review process engagement, identifying our values and ethical we must continue to attract, and continuous development and nurturing talent and standards.
retain and reward the right through tools such as 360 empowering people.
degree feedback and targeted Objective We are making significant leadership programmes.
changes to field organisational We aim to have sufficient depth Likelihood Periodic employee and agent structures and this commenced of personnel to ensure we can Although our transformation engagement surveys and in some markets in 2015 with meet our growth objectives.
and growth plans are improvement plans.
remaining markets planned to significant, there is a strong start in 2016.
We aim to limit the Group standard employee history of talent moving short-term impact on field staff competency framework aligned between markets that reduces and agent stability and believe to Strategy for Growth.
the likelihood of key vacancies.
the medium-term impact of the The likelihood of turnover transformation will increase the temporarily impacting field skills, engagement and stability performance may increase as of our people.
the transformation programme In 2015, to comply with new affects field structures.
legislation, our agents in Romania were made employees.
42 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk Relevance to strategy Mitigation Commentary SERVICE DISRUPTION AND 2 3 4 INFORMATION SECURITY We suffer losses or fail to Globally, we have 2.8 million Core head office-based Lead responsibility: optimise profitable growth customers and we record, systems operate in a virtualised Chief Executive Officer due to a failure of our systems, update and maintain data environment and are supported We continue to enhance suppliers or processes, or due for each of them on a regular by service level agreements.
our systems and processes to to the loss or theft of sensitive basis often weekly.
ensure customer and business Agreed and tested business information.
The availability of this data, data is as secure as practicable continuity plan for all branches and the continued operation and that any disruption to the and head office functions.
Objective of our systems and processes, business is minimised.
Strategic Business Impact We aim to maintain adequate is essential to the effective Information security capability Assessment performed.
arrangements and controls operation of our business was further enhanced in 2015, that reduce the threat of service Intrusion detection and and the security of our including implementation of disruption and the risk of data monitoring systems in place.
technical solutions to prevent loss to as low as is reasonably Group and market level and detect weaknesses.
Likelihood governance committees A disaster recovery assessment While the external threat to our that oversee our service and testing programme has systems is increasing in the digital disruption and information also been undertaken in age, the tools in place reduce security arrangements.
the likelihood of a significant failure or information loss.
Further enhancements to our protection are planned for 2016.
1 4 TAXATION We suffer additional taxation or In a backdrop of increasing fiscal Binding rulings or clearances Lead responsibility: financial penalties associated challenges for most economies, obtained from authorities Chief Financial Officer with failure to comply with tax many authorities are turning to where appropriate.
We continue to ensure our legislation or adopting an corporate taxpayers to increase interpretation of taxation External advisors used for all interpretation of the law revenues, either via taxation legislation is defendable material tax transactions.
that cannot be sustained.
reforms or through changes through maintaining a strong Qualified and experienced to interpretations of existing governance framework, Objective tax teams at Group level legislation.
ensuring each mature market and in market.
We aim to generate shareholder and the Group employs tax Likelihood value through effective professionals, and taking management of tax while The likelihood of changes in external advice where relevant.
acting as a good corporate or challenges arising from tax Tax audits are currently being citizen.
undertaken in Poland covering Globally, OECD and EU led two fiscal periods.
See page developments may lead to an 108 for further information.
increase in transfer pricing audits.
We successfully concluded audits in Mexico and Hungary in 2015, although this does not prevent further challenge by the same authorities related to other fiscal periods.
KEY Expanding our footprint Risk environment improving 1 Risk environment remains stable Improving customer engagement 2 Risk environment worsening Developing a sales culture 3 Effective execution 4
