Strategic Report Strategic Report Risk Report The overall risk governance framework is the responsibility of Risk Management and Internal Controls the Board, overseen by the Audit and Risk Committee with The Board is responsible for overall risk management with delegation provided to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The input from the Management Engagement Committee.
It is implemented through the following risk control processes.
system of risk management and internal control has been designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet the business objectives.
Regard is given to the Risk identification materiality of relevant risks in designing systems of internal The Board and Audit and Risk Committee identify risks with control but no system of control can provide absolute additional input from the Companys Investment Adviser and assurance against the incidence of risk, misstatement or Administrator.
The Board also receives detailed quarterly loss.
asset management reports highlighting performance and potential risk issues on an  basis.
The Company has in place a risk management framework, with a risk register that is reviewed and updated by the Board Risk assessment and Audit and Risk Committee on a quarterly basis.
The Each identified risk is assessed in terms of probability of Audit and Risk Committee considers the risks facing the occurrence, potential impact on financial performance and Company and controls and other measures in place to movements in the relative significance of each risk from mitigate the impact of risks.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Action plans to mitigate risk managing the risks judged as most significant faced by the Where new risks are identified or existing risks increase in Company.
The process has been in place for the year under terms of likelihood or impact, the Audit and Risk Committee review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report assists the Company in developing an action plan to mitigate and financial statements.
the risk and put in place enhanced monitoring and reporting.
Risk management process Re-assessment and reporting of risk The Companys risk management process as overseen by the Such risk mitigation plans are reassessed by the Audit and Risk Committee, where applicable with the relevant key Board can be summarised as: service providers and reported to The Board on a quarterly basis.
Risk framework and systems of internal control The Board recognises the importance of identifying and actively monitoring the financial and non-financial risks facing the business.
Whilst responsibility for risk management rests with the Board, the aim is that the management of risk is embedded as part of the everyday business and culture of the Company and its principal advisers.
The direct communication between the Company and its The Board has considered the need for an internal audit Investment Adviser and the entity level asset manager is function but because of the internal controls systems in place regarded as a key element in the effective management of at the key service providers, and the controls process risk and performance at the underlying investment level.
reviews performed, it has decided instead to place reliance on those control and assurance processes.
The risk framework is applied holistically across the Company and the underlying investment portfolio as illustrated in the Operating Model diagram on page 13. International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 35 Strategic Report Strategic Report Risk Report continued Risk Heat Map Principal Risks and Mitigation The key risks affecting the Company and the investment portfolio have not in the view of the Board, materially changed year to year, largely due to the contractual and long-term nature of the investments with similar risk profiles.
Changes in the macroeconomic environment and broader global regulatory and tax environment can impact on fund returns and are a permanent feature of the risk appraisal process.
The Boards views on the principal risks and uncertainties for the Company and the relevance of these risks to meeting the Companys objectives, together with movement of those risks in the period, are set out in detail in the table on pages 37 to 41.
This is not intended to highlight all the potential risks to the business.
There may be other risks that are currently unknown or regarded as less material which could turn out to be material.
Any of these could have the potential to impact materially the performance of the Company, its assets, capital resources and reputation.
The following key is used in the table below to highlight the Boards view on how risk exposures are considered to have A description of broader risk factors relevant to investors is moved during the period: disclosed in the latest Company prospectus available on the Companys website Risk exposure has increased in the period www.
Risk exposure has reduced in the period Whilst the Company has applied mitigation processes as highlighted below it is unlikely that the techniques applied will No significant change in risk exposure since last fully mitigate the risk.
reporting period The chart below provides a summary of the Boards view of the probability and potential impact of the Companys principal risks: International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 36 Strategic Report Strategic Report Risk Report continued Risk Description Mitigation Approach Macroeconomic Risks Inflation Inflation may be higher or lower than expected.
The Company monitors the effect of inflation on Investment cash flows are positively correlated to its portfolio through its twice yearly valuation inflation therefore increases decreases to inflation process and reports on this to investors.
The compared to current projections would impact Company also provides sensitivities to investors positively or negatively on the Companys future indicating the projected impact on the Companys projected cash flows.
Negative inflation deflation NAV of a number of alternative inflation will reduce the Companys future cash flows in scenarios, offering investors an ability to absolute terms.
anticipate the likely effects of some inflation scenarios on their investment.
The Companys portfolio has been developed in anticipation of continued inflation at or above the The Company utilises a long-term view of inflation levels used in the Companys valuation assumptions.
within its forecasts, benchmarked where possible Where inflation is at levels below the assumed levels to independent analysis.
investment performance may be impaired.
The level of inflation linkage across the investments held by the Company varies and is not consistent.
Some investments have no inflation linkage and some have a geared exposure to inflation.
The consequences of higher or lower levels of inflation than that assumed by the Company will not be uniform across its portfolio.
The Company is also exposed to the risk of changes to the manner in which inflation is calculated by the relevant authorities.
Foreign Exchange The Company indirectly holds part of its investments The Company uses forward foreign exchange in entities in jurisdictions with currencies other than contracts to mitigate the risk of short-term Movements Sterling but borrows corporate level debt, reports its volatility in foreign exchange on significant NAV and pays dividends in Sterling.
Changes in the investment returns from overseas investments.
rates of foreign currency exchange are outside the These may not be fully effective and rely on the control of the Company and may impact positively or strength of the counterparties to those contracts negatively on Company cash flows and valuation.
The Company monitors the effect of foreign Reduction in overall exchange on its portfolio through its twice yearly exposure to foreign valuation process and reports this to investors.
exchange originated assets The Company also provides sensitivities to mainly due to substantial investors indicating the projected impact on the increase in the NAV driven Companys NAV of a limited number of alternative by new GBP investments foreign exchange scenarios, offering investors an and capital raised in the ability to anticipate the likely effects of some year.
foreign exchange scenarios on their investment.
Interest Rates Changes in market rates of interest can affect the Company in a variety of different ways: Valuation Discount Rate In determining the discount rate used to value the The Company, in valuing its investments, uses a Companys investments the Company generally discounted cash flow methodology.
Changes in uses nominal interest rates.
Where the market rates of interest particularly government Companys cash investment inflows are linked to bond rates may directly impact the discount rate inflation, higher interest rates can often be used to value the Companys future projected cash precipitated by higher inflation expectations, and flows and thus its valuation.
Higher rates will have a therefore any inflation linkage may partly mitigate negative impact on valuation while lower rates will the effect of interest rate changes have a positive impact.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 37 Strategic Report Strategic Report Risk Report continued Risk Description Mitigation Approach Macroeconomic Risks continued Corporate Debt Facility In the event that the interest rate increases then the The Company has a corporate level debt facility that Company has the option of repaying that facility at may be drawn from time to time.
Interest is charged any time with minimal notice, providing sufficient on a floating rate basis, so higher than anticipated funds are available.
interest rates will increase the cost of this facility potentially adversely impacting on cash flow and the Companys valuation.
Cash Holdings As presented in the sensitivity analysis, variations in The Company and underlying investment entities cash deposit rates have little impact on the typically choose or can be required to hold various Companys NAV.
Due to the spread of cash cash balances, including contingency reserves for holdings within ringfenced SPV structures and future costs such as major lifecycle maintenance or relatively smaller balances in the SPVs, it is not debt service reserves.
These are generally held on economically feasible to hedge against adverse interest bearing accounts and under the contractual deposit rate movements.
terms applicable to certain investments which in many cases are projected to be held for the long The Company monitors the effect of historical and term.
projected interest rates on its portfolio through its twice yearly valuation process and reports this to The Company assumes that it will earn interest on investors.
The Company also provides sensitivities such deposits over the long term.
Changes in to investors indicating the projected impact on the interest rates may mean that the actual interest Companys NAV of a limited number of alternative receivable by the Company is less than projected.
If scenarios, offering investors an ability to anticipate the Company receives less interest than it projects the likely effects of some deposit interest rate this will impact cash flows and NAV adversely.
Taxation Change in Legislation The diversified jurisdictional mix of the Companys Changes in tax legislation across the multiinvestments may provide some mitigation to tax jurisdictions in which the Company has investments changes in any one jurisdiction.
can reduce returns impacting on the Companys cash flow and valuation.
Change in Tax Rates The Company believes it takes a conservative Most recently the Company has benefited from approach to tax planning.
The Board monitors Increased uncertainty reductions in the headline rates of UK corporation changes in tax legislation and takes advice as over future tax policy tax positively impacting its UK based investments, appropriate from external, independent, qualified across a number of however there is a risk that this could be reversed if advisers.
Whilst the Board and the Companys geographies mainly there were a change in government or policy.
Such Investment Adviser seek to minimise the impact of driven by OECD changes may occur in all jurisdictions in which the adverse changes in tax requirements, its ability to recommendations on Company operates.
do so is naturally limited.
Base Erosion and Profit Shifting The Companys Investment Adviser has responded The OECDs Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit to the OECD BEPS consultation process but there Shifting BEPS, published in 2013, seeks to can be no guarantee that any enactment of BEPS address perceived flaws in international tax rules.
It into national legislation within those countries where sets out 15 actions to counter BEPS in a the Group operates will not have a negative impact, comprehensive and coordinated way.
These actions whether direct or indirect, on the Companys may result in fundamental changes to the performance.
international tax standards and potentially have unintended consequences for domestic tax standards too.
If widely drawn they may have negative implications for the Company.
Accounting Accounting changes can have the effect of reducing A significant portion of the Companys income is distributable profits in investee entities and holding received in the form of shareholder debt interest entities and may impact the Companys cash flows income i. e. from pre-tax cash flows and therefore and thus valuation adversely.
not constrained by distributable profits tests.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 38 Strategic Report Strategic Report Risk Report continued Risk Description Mitigation Approach Market Risk Political and Regulatory The nature of the businesses in which the Company The Companys existing investments mainly benefit invests exposes the Company to potential changes from long-term service and asset availability based in policy and legal requirements.
All investments pricing contracts and the countries in which the have a public sector infrastructure service aspect.
Company operates do not tend to have a tradition of Some are subject to formal regulatory regimes.
The countries where are exposed to political scrutiny and the potential for the Company operates tend to be long-term adverse public sector or political criticism.
Moreover supporters of infrastructure and similar investment all are either dependent ultimately on public sector and recognise the risk of deterring future investment expenditure or dependent on regulatory or other in the event that penal or disproportionate steps are similar frameworks for most of their revenues.
The taken in respect of existing contractual Increasing pressures on Company is therefore potentially highly exposed to engagements.
public sector bodies changes in policy, law or regulations including globally have the adverse or punitive changes of law.
potential to impact the Termination of Contracts infrastructure industry.
The Company maintains strong and positive Often contracts between public sector bodies and relationships with its public sector clients where it the Companys investment entities contain rights for can.
The Company engages with its public sector the public sector to voluntarily terminate contracts in clients in developing cost saving initiatives and certain situations.
Whilst the contracts typically acting as a good partner where it can.
None of the provide for some compensation in such cases, this Companys investments have been identified, by could be less than required to sustain the any government audit or public sector report as Companys valuation causing loss of value to the being poor value-for-money or not in the public Company.
There have been instances of contracts interest.
being voluntarily terminated in the UK although not affecting the Company.
The Investment Adviser is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for Operational PFI PPP contracts in the UK.
The voluntary code of conduct sets out the basis on which public and private sector partners agree to work together to make savings in operational Public PPP contracts.
Compensation on termination clauses within such contracts serve to partially mitigate the risk of voluntary termination.
Furthermore in the current financial climate where voluntary termination leads to a requirement to pay compensation such compensation is likely in many cases to represent an unattractive immediate call on the public finances for the public sector.
Change in Law Regulation Some investments maintain a reserve or Changes in law or regulation may increase costs of contingency designed to meet change in law costs operating and maintaining facilities or impose other and or have a mechanism to allow some change in costs or obligations that indirectly adversely affect law costs typically building maintenance related to the Companys cash flow from its investments and or be passed back to the public sector.
Change in Political Policy Current policy trends in the UK and elsewhere Political policy and financing decisions may also continue to support the use of private sector capital impact on relationships on existing investments and to finance public infrastructure.
on the Companys ability to source new investments at attractive prices or at all.
UK European Union EU Membership Impact resulting from in-out referendum in respect Possible period of volatility in the months preceding of UK EU Membership on 23 June 2016. the referendum due to uncertainty with respect to the outcome.
If the UK were to exit the EU there is the potential for this to impact UK gilt rates and the credit rating of the UK Government and continuing market volatility, including stock markets.
This could include a negative impact on Sterling however this could be partially mitigated by the Companys non-Sterling denominated projects.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 39 Strategic Report Strategic Report Risk Report continued Risk Description Mitigation Approach Market Risk continued Change in Regulations The Company and its Investment Adviser monitor The Company is subject to changes in regulatory regulatory developments and seek independent policy that relate to its business and that of its professional advice in order to manage compliance Investment Adviser both in terms of its investments with changing regulatory requirements.
The Company is supervised by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission and is required to comply with the UK Listing Rules applicable to Premium listings.
The Investment Adviser is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Recent Regulatory Changes The Board considers the Company is self-managed Recent regulatory changes have included the i. e. it is its own Alternative Investment Fund transposition of the European Unions Alternative Manager AIFM.
It is therefore subject to a lighter Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD into UK regulatory regime than if it were to appoint an AIFM and other EU countries national laws which will impact from within the EU.
However it is not possible to the Company by increasing its regulatory burden.
entirely mitigate the risk the Company may be deemed or choose to be managed by an EU AIFM in the future.
Operational and Valuation Risk Asset Performance Asset Availability The Board reviews underlying investment The Companys investments entitlement to receive performance of each investment quarterly allowing income is generally dependent on the underlying asset performance to be monitored in close to real physical assets remaining available for use and time.
continuing to meet certain performance standards.
Failure to maintain assets available for use or Historically the Company has seen very high levels operating in accordance with pre-determined of asset performance which suggests a positive performance standards may dis-entitle wholly or trend for the future.
partially the continued receipt of income that the Company has projected to receive.
Contractual mechanisms also allow for significant pass-down of unavailability and performance risk to sub-contractors in many cases.
Termination In the event of significant and continuing In serious cases where the terms of the underlying unavailability across the Companys portfolio the contract with the public sector are breached due to Company is able to terminate the Investment default or force majeure then that contract can usually Advisory Agreement.
This serves to reinforce be terminated without compensation.
Failure to alignment of interest between the Company and the receive the amount of revenue projected or termination Investment Adviser.
of a contract will have a consequential impact on the Companys cash flow and value.
Counterparty Risk The Companys investments are dependent on the The Company has a broad range of suppliers and performance of a series of counterparties to contracts believes that supplier counterparty risk is diversified including public sector bodies, construction across its investments.
All contracts include the contractors, facilities management and maintenance provision of a security package from counterparties contractors, asset and investment managers including to mitigate the impact of supplier failure.
In addition, the Investment Adviser, banks and lending institutions generally payments are made in arrears to service and others.
Failure by one or more of these providers giving the Company some protection counterparties to perform their obligations fully or as against failures in performance.
New investment activity anticipated could adversely affect the performance of by the Company in the affected investments.
Replacement counterparties The credit quality of supplier counterparties is year has decreased the where they can be obtained may only be obtained at a reviewed as part of the Companys due diligence at level of risk within the greater cost.
These risks would negatively impact the the time of making its investments.
portfolio through Companys cash flows and valuation.
diversification of Most of the services provided to the Companys counterparties.
investments are reasonably generic and therefore there can be expected to be a pool of potential replacement supplier counterparties in the event that a service counterparty fails albeit not necessarily at the same cost.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 40 Strategic Report Strategic Report Risk Report continued Risk Description Mitigation Approach Operational and Valuation Risk continued Where borrowings exist in respect of the Companys The credit risk of such swap counterparties is investments, interest rates are generally fixed through considered at the time of entering into these the use of interest rate swaps.
The Company is arrangements and are regularly reviewed.
However, therefore exposed if the counterparties of these swaps there is a risk of credit deterioration which could were to default or the swaps otherwise become impact affected investments.
Physical Asset Risk The Company indirectly invests in physical assets The Companys investments benefit from regular risk used by the public and thus is exposed to possible reviews and external insurance advice which is risks, both reputational and legal, in the event of intended to ensure that those assets continue to damage or destruction to such assets and their users benefit from insurance cover that is standard for including loss of life, personal injury and property such assets.
While the assets the Company invests in benefit from insurance policies these may not be effective in all cases.
Contract Risk The performance of the Companys investments is Such contracts have been entered into usually only dependent on the complex set of contractual after lengthy negotiations and with the benefit of arrangements specific to each investment continuing external legal advice.
A legal review of contract to operate as intended.
The Company is exposed to documentation is undertaken as part of the the risk that such contracts do not operate as intended, Companys due diligence at the time of making new are incomplete, contain unanticipated liabilities, are investments.
subject to interpretation contrary to the Companys expectation or otherwise fail to provide the protection or recourse anticipated by the Company.
The Companys projections depend on the use of Financial forecasts are generally subject to model Financial Forecasts financial models to calculate future projected audit by external accountancy firms which is a investment returns for the Company.
These are in turn process designed to identify errors.
The comparison dependent on the outputs from other financial model of past actual performance of investments against forecasts at the underlying investment entity level.
past projected performance also gives confidence in There may be errors in any of these financial models financial models where actual performance has including calculation errors, incorrect assumptions, closely matched projected performance.
However programming, logic or formulaic errors and output there can be no assurance that forecast results will errors.
Once corrected such errors may lead to a be realised.
revision in the Companys projections for its cash flows and thus impact on its valuation.
Sensitivities Sensitivities are produced for the information of The Company publishes information relating to its investors and are accompanied by disclaimers and portfolio including projections of how portfolio guidance explaining that limited reliance can be performance and valuation might be impacted by placed upon them.
changes in various factors e. g. interest rates, inflation, deposit rates etc.
The sensitivity analysis and projections are not forecasts and actual performance is likely to differ possibly significantly from that projection as in practice the impact of changes to such factors will be unlikely to apply evenly across the portfolio or in isolation from other factors.
Cyber-security is an issue of increasing relevance Cyber-security A number of control layers are in place across the across all businesses as a response to the growing Company structure to mitigate as far as possible levels of sophistication being used in carrying out against the risk of a cyber-security issue occurring in cyber-attacks targeting businesses.
Cybercrime could the Companys operational or investment activities.
impact the Company in a number of ways including financially, operationally or through reputational impact.
Increasing levels of sophistication are being used in cyber-attacks targeting businesses.
International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 41 Strategic Report Strategic Report Risk Report continued Viability Statement In accordance with provision C2:2 of the 2014 revision of the UK Code of Corporate Governance, we have considered the Company's viability as summarised below.
Due to the very long term and contractual nature of our investments, we have a significant level of confidence over the endurance and longevity of our business however it is difficult to assess the regulatory, tax and political environment on a long-term basis.
Therefore whilst we consider the valuation of investment cash flows for the purposes of NAV over a considerably longer period than five years, we view five years as an the appropriate timeframe for assessing the Company's viability given these inherent uncertainties.
In 2015, the viability assessment process was embedded within the Company's annual risk review cycle and involves the following: 1 An Audit and Risk Committee review and assessment of the risks facing the Company.
A summary of the review process is detailed on page 35 2 Identification of those principal risks that are deemed more likely to occur and have a potential impact on the Companys viability over the viability period this exercise has included consideration of a persistent low inflation rate environment, a persistent weak currency environment impacting on overseas investments, and the impact from the loss of income from investments whether due to key sub-contractor default or other asset underperformance.
We note that a number of risks identified during the risk review process in step one above may have implications for the Companys valuation but may be considered insignificant from a five year viability perspective 3 Quantification analysis of the potential impact of those principal risks occurring in isolation and under plausible combined sensitivity scenarios over the viability period 4 Assessment of potential mitigation strategies to mitigate the potential impact of principal risks over the viability period.
This exercise has considered the potential to liquidate investments and or refinance investments if necessary The viability assessment is approved by the Board.
Following the assessment, the Board have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet all its liabilities as they fall due up to March 2021.
This assessment is based on the following assumptions which are not within the Companys control: - No retrospective changes to government policy, laws and regulations affecting the Company or its investments: and - Continued availability of sufficient capital and market liquidity to allow for the refinancing repayment of any short term recourse debt facility obligations as they become due International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 42
