3 Risk management and corporate governance 3 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management Risk awareness, control and compliance Overview of disclosure are embedded in all our day-to-day Group Risk requirements activities.
We seek to achieve an Management appropriate balance between risk Risk disclosures provided in line with objectives are to: and reward, taking cognisance of all the requirements of International stakeholders interests.
A strong risk and Financial Reporting Standard 7 Financial capital management culture is embedded Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 7 and into our values.
disclosures on capital required by Be the custodian of adherence International Accounting Standard 1 Group Risk Management monitors, to our risk management culture Presentation of Financial Statements manages and reports on our risks to Ensure the business operates IAS1 are included within this section ensure that they are within the stated within the board stated risk of the annual report on pages 40 to 112 risk appetite mandated by the board appetite with further disclosures provided within of directors through the board risk and the annual financial statements section on capital committee.
Support the long-term pages 131 to 222. sustainability of the group We monitor and control risk exposure by providing an established, All sections, paragraphs, tables and through independent Credit, Market, independent framework graphs on which an audit opinion is Liquidity, Operational, Legal Risk, for identifying, evaluating, expressed on are marked as audited.
monitoring and mitigating risk This approach is core to assuming a Information provided in this section of tolerable risk and reward profile, helping Set, approve and monitor theannual report is prepared on an us to pursue controlled growth across adherence to risk parameters Investec plc consolidated basis unless ourbusiness.
and limits across the group and otherwise stated.
ensure they are implemented Group Risk Management operates and adhered to consistently The risk disclosures comprise the majority within an integrated geographical and of the banks Pillar III disclosures as divisional structure, in line with our Aggregate and monitor our required under the Capital Requirements exposure across risk classes management approach, ensuring that Regulation pertaining to banks in the UK.
the appropriate processes are used Coordinate risk management to address all risks across the group.
activities across the There are specialist divisions in the organisation, covering all legal Statement from the UK and smaller risk divisions in other entities and jurisdictions regions tasked with promoting sound risk chairman of the managementpractices.
Give the boards reasonable Investecplc group risk assurance that the risks we Risk Management units are locally areexposed to are identified and capital committee responsive yet globally aware.
This helps and appropriately managed to ensure that all initiatives and businesses andcontrolled Philosophy and approach to operate within our defined risk parameters risk management Run appropriate risk and objectives, continually seeking new The board risk and capital committee committees, as mandated ways to enhance techniques.
comprising both executive and nonWe believe that the risk management executive directors meets six times per systems and processes we have in place annum and approves the overall risk are adequate to support the groups appetite for the Investec group.
The 3 strategy and allow the group to operate groups risk appetite statement sets within its risk appetite tolerance as set out broad parameters relating to the boards on page 41. expectations around performance, business stability and risk management.
This section of our annual report, explains The board ensures that there are in detail our approach to managing our appropriate resources to manage the risk business within our risk appetite tolerance, arising from running ourbusinesses.
across all main aspects of risk.
Our comprehensive risk management process involves identifying, quantifying, managing and mitigating the risks associated with each of our businesses.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 37 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Our focus over the past few years to stress testing scenarios remaining at A summary of the year in realign and rebalance our portfolios in prudent levels.
Potential losses that could review from a risk perspective line with our risk appetite framework is arise in our trading book portfolio when Executive management is intimately reflected in the relative changes in asset stress tested under extreme market involved in ensuring stringent management classes on our balance sheet showing an conditions i. e. per extreme value theory of risk, liquidity, capital and conduct.
increase in private client and corporate amount to approximately 0.1% of total Investec plc predominantly remained and other lending, and a reduction in operatingincome.
within its risk appetite limits targets lending collateralised by property as a across the various risk disciplines.
Our Investec plc has continued to maintain a proportion of the book.
risk appetite framework as set out on sound balance sheet with a low gearing page 41 continues to be assessed in Our legacy portfolio has been actively ratio of 8.8 times and a core loans to light of prevailing market conditions managed down from 3.4 billion at equity ratio of 3.4 times.
31March 2014 to 0.7 billion largely held capital in excess of regulatory through strategic sales, redemptions, requirements and we intend to perpetuate Investec plc has significantly derisked write-offs and some transfers at the end this philosophy.
Both Investec plc and its balance sheet through a number of of the period to the ongoing book on the its banking subsidiary, Investec Bank strategic sales completed during the back of improved performance in these plc, meet current internal targets.
We financial year as discussed in detail on loans.
Theremaining legacy portfolio will are comfortable with our common equity page 19, which resulted in a reduction in continue to be managed down and we are tier1 ratio target at a 10% level, as our legacy assets of approximately 1.5billion starting to see opportunities to clear this current leverage ratios for both Investec and total assets of approximately portfolio.
Management believes that the plc and Investec Bank plc are above 7%.
remaining legacy book will still take three Webelieve that we have sufficient capital to five years to wind down as explained in tosupport our growthinitiatives.
Our core loan book excluding strategic detail on page 30. sales has grown steadily over the year, Holding a high level of readily available, reflecting an increase of approximately Impairments on loans and advances high-quality liquid assets remains 16%.
This has been supported by solid decreased from 126.9 million to paramount in the management of our growth in our residential owner-occupied 102.7million.
We continue to maintain mortgage portfolios and private client gross defaults have improved from a low reliance on interbank wholesale lending, and steady growth in our Asset 457.0million to 400.1 million.
The funding to fund lending growth.
Cash and Finance business and other diversified percentage of default loans net of near cash balances amounted to 5.0 corporate lending activities.
impairments but before taking collateral billion at year end, representing 43.3% of into account to core loans and advances our liabilitybase.
Credit and counterparty exposures are amounted to 3.00% 2014: 3.21%.
The to a select target market and our risk We have significant surplus cash following ratio of collateral to default loans net appetite continues to favour lower risk, the sale of Kensington and we are of impairments remains satisfactory at income-based lending, with credit risk actively focusing on reducing both cash 1.33times 2014:1.13times.
taken over a short to medium term.
We and liquidity back to normalised levels expect our target clients to demonstrate The credit loss ratio increased during through asset growth and further liability sound financial strength and integrity, the year to 1.16% as we divested assets management, while maintaining our overall a core competency and an established and increased impairments on the legacy conservative approach to liquidity risk trackrecord.
Our credit losses on our core management.
Our weighted average cost ongoing book remain low at0.23% of funding continued to decrease and Our core loan book remains well diversified 2014:0.50%.
we comfortably exceed Basel liquidity with commercial rent producing property requirements for the Liquidity Coverage loans comprising approximately 17% of Our investment portfolios in the UK Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio.
3 the book, other lending collateralised by 3 continued to perform well.
However, property 15%, HNW and private client our investment portfolio in Hong Kong We continue to spend much time and lending 17% and corporate lending 51% unfortunately generated a loss during the effort focusing on operational, reputational, with most industry concentrations well period as a result of a poor performance conduct, recovery and resolution risks.
We anticipate that future from some of the underlying investments.
During the year, Investec enhanced its growth in our core loan portfolios will Overall, we remain comfortable with the stress testing framework by developing a largely come from professional mortgages, performance of our equity investment repeatable stress testing process designed HNW mortgages, asset finance, fund portfolios which comprise 3.4% of to identify and regularly test the banks finance and power and infrastructure totalassets.
These asset classes have is to understand these potential threats historically reported low default ratios Market risk within our trading portfolio to our sustainability and profitability and withsatisfactory net margins.
remains modest with value at risk and 38 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued thus a number of risk scenarios have been developed and assessed.
These Investec-specific stress scenarios form an integral part of our capital planning process.
The stress testing process also informs the risk appetite review process and the management of risk appetite limits, and is a key risk management tool of the bank.
This process allows the bank to identify underlying risks and manage themaccordingly.
Conclusion The current regulatory and economic environment continues to prove challenging to our business: however, we are comfortable that we have robust risk management processes and systems in place which provide a strong foundation to the board and the business to manage and mitigate risks within our risk appetite tolerance framework.
Signed on behalf of the board Stephen Koseff Chairman of the group risk and capitalcommittee 19 June 2015 3 3 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 39 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Salient features A summary of key risk indicators is provided in the table below.
Year to 31 March 2015 2014 Net core loans and advances million 7 061 8 222 Total assets million 18 272 22 674 Total risk-weighted assets million 11 608 13 711 Total equity million 2 074 2 269 Cash and near cash million 5 039 4 324 Customer accounts deposits million 10 306 10 956 Gross defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances 5.52% 5.43% Defaults net of impairments as a % of net core loans and advances 3.00% 3.21% Net defaults after collateral and impairments as a % of net core loans and advances Credit loss ratio 1.16% 0.99% Structured credit investments as a % of total assets 1.92% 1.94% Banking book investment and equity risk exposures as a % of total assets 3.44% 2.46% Level 3 fair value assets as a % of total assets 4.32% 4.57% Traded market risk: one day value at risk million 0.7 0.9 Core loans to equity ratio 3.4x 3.6x Total gearing ratio 8.8x 10.0x Loans and advances to customers to customer deposits 68.5% 71.0% Capital adequacy ratio 16.2% 14.9% Tier 1 ratio 11.4% 10.1% Common equity tier 1 ratio 9.7% 8.4% Leverage ratio 7.4% 7.1% # Return on average assets 0.44% 0.43% # Return on average risk-weighted assets 0.72% 0.75% Income statement impairment charge on core loans as a percentage of average advances.
Total assets to total equity.
Restated for adoption of IFRIC 21 as detailed in note 57 on page 222.
# Where return represents operating profit after taxation and non-controlling interests and after deducting preference dividends, but before goodwill, acquired intangibles and non-operating items.
Average balances are calculated on a straight-line average.
Takes into account the deduction of foreseeable dividends as discussed on page 105.
3 3 40 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Overall group risk appetite The group has a number of board-approved risk appetite statements and policy documents covering our risk tolerance and approach to all aspects of risk.
In addition, a number of committees and forums identify and manage risk at a group level.
The group risk appetite statement and framework sets out the boards mandated risk appetite.
The group risk appetite framework acts as a guide to determine the acceptable risk profile of the group by the owners of the groups capital.
The group risk appetite statement ensures that limits targets are applied and monitored across all key operating jurisdictions and legal entities.
The group risk appetite statement is a high-level, strategic framework that supplements and does not replace the detailed risk policy documents at each entity and geographic level.
The group risk appetite framework is a function of business strategy, budget process and the regulatory and economic environment in which the group is operating.
The group risk appetite framework is reviewed in light of the above aspects and approved at least annually or as business needs dictate.
A documented process exists where our risk profile is measured against our risk appetite and this positioning is presented to the group risk and capital committee and the board risk and capital committee.
The table below provides a high-level summary of Investec plc's overall risk tolerance framework.
Investec plc risk appetite and tolerance metrics Investec plc positioning at 31 March 2015 We seek to maintain an appropriate balance between revenue earned Capital light activities contributed 66% to total from capital light and capital intensive activities.
Ideally the split in revenue operating income and capital intensive activities should be 50:50, dependent on prevailing market conditions contributed 34% We have a solid recurring income base supported by diversified revenue Recurring income amounted to 77.1% of total streams, and target a recurring income ratio in excess of 65% operating income We seek to maintain strict control over fixed costs and target a group The cost to income ratio amounted to 79.6%.
cost to income ratio of below 70% We aim to build a sustainable business generating sufficient return to The Investec groups return on equity amounted shareholders over the longer term.
The Investec group targets a longto 10.6% and its return on risk-weighted assets term return on equity ratio range of between 12% and 16%, and a return amounted to1.25% on risk-weighted assets in excess of 1.2% We are a lowly leveraged firm and target a leverage ratio in all our banking We achieved this internal target, refer to page 108 for subsidiaries in excess of 6% further information We intend to maintain a sufficient level of capital to satisfy regulatory We meet current capital targets, refer to page 108 for requirements and our internal target ratios.
We target a capital adequacy further information ratio range of between 14% and 17% on a consolidated basis, a minimum tier 1 ratio of 10.5% 11.0% by March 2016 and a common equity tier 1 ratio above 10.0% byMarch 2016 We target a diversified loan portfolio, lending to clients we know and We maintained this risk tolerance level in place understand.
We limit our exposure to a single connected individual or throughout the year company to 7.5% of common equity tier 1 capital up to 10% if approved by the relevant board committee.
We also have a number of risk tolerance limits and targets for specific asset classes There is a preference for primary exposure in Investec plcs main Refer to page 68 for further information operating geography i. e. the UK.
We will accept exposures where we have a branch banking business.
We will also tolerate exposures to other countries where we have core capabilities The level of defaults and impairments continues to improve and we target The credit loss charge on core loans amounted to a credit loss charge on core loans of less than 0.5% of average core 1.16% and defaults net of impairments amounted advances less than 1.5% under a weak economic environment stressed to3.00% of total core loans.
Refer to page 59 for scenario, and we target defaults net of impairments less than 2% of total further information core loans less than 4% under a weak economic environment stressed 3 3 scenario We carry a high level of liquidity in all our banking subsidiaries in order to Total cash and near cash balances amounted to be able to cope with shocks to the system, targeting a minimum cash 5.0billion, representing 43.3% of our liability base.
tocustomer deposit ratio of 25% Refer to page 87 for further information We have modest market risk as our trading activities primarily focus We meet these internal limits, refer to page 77 for on supporting client activity and our appetite for proprietary trading is further information limited.
We set an overall tolerance level of a 1 day 95% VaR of less than 5million for Investec plc We have moderate appetite for investment risk, and set a risk tolerance of Our unlisted investment portfolio is 288 million, less than 27.5% of common equity tier 1 capital for our unlisted principal representing 24.4% of total common equity tier 1 investmentportfolio capital.
Refer to page 72 for further information Our Operational Risk Management team focuses on improving business Refer to pages 91 to 93 for further information performance and compliance with regulatory requirements, through review, challenge and escalation We have a number of policies and practices in place to mitigate Refer to pages 94 and 95 for further information reputational, legal and conduct risks Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 41 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Risk management framework, committees and forums A number of committees and forums identify and manage risk at group level, as shown in the diagram below.
These committees and forums operate together with Group Risk Management and are mandated by the board.
Investec plc PLC and Investec Limited INL board of directors DLC nominations DLC remuneration DLC audit DLC board risk and DLC social and Group investment and directors affairs committee committee capital committee ethics committee committee committee PLC PLC INL Executive Group risk and Audit Audit DLC capital Group legal PACC risk review capital sub-committees sub-committees committee risk forums forum committee Global Deal forum Stress testing forums new product workshop Audit and compliance committees forum implementation forums Global credit committee Internal Global market risk forum Audit Group asset and liability committees Group operational risk committees Global IT steering committee Compliance Global IT strategy committee Global compliance forum Stakeholders employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, suppliers, communities In the sections that follow the following abbreviations are used on numerous occasions: ALCO Asset and liability committee ERRF Executive risk review forum BCBS Basel Committee of Banking Supervision FCA Financial Conduct Authority BIS Bank for International Settlements FSB Financial Services Board BoE Bank of England GRCC Group risk and capital committee BRCC Board risk and capital committee PACC Prudential audit and conduct committee ECB European Central Bank PRA Prudential Regulation Authority 3 3 42 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued credit and counterparty risk due An overview of key risks to market guaranteed settlement Independent mechanisms In our daily business activities, Investec credit committees enters into a number of risks that could Replacement risk is the financial manage, measure have the potential to affect our business cost of having to enter into a operations or financial performance.
and mitigate replacement contract with an alternative market counterparty, These risks have been creditand following default by the original highlighted on page 18. counterparty risk counterparty.
The sections that follow provide Credit and counterparty risks can be information on a number of these risk impacted by country risk where crossareas.
This Additional risks and uncertainties that are can include geopolitical risks, transfer and currently considered immaterial and not convertibility risks, and the impact on the included in this report may in the future borrowers credit profile due to local impact our business operations and economic and political conditions.
While we do not have a separate country risk committee, the local and global credit committees will consider, analyse Credit and counterparty and assess the appropriate limits to risk management be recorded when required, to assume exposure to foreign jurisdictions.
The local Credit and counterparty group credit committee has the authority risk description to approve country limits within mandate.
The global credit committee is responsible Credit and counterparty risk is defined as for approving country limits not within the the risk arising from an obligors typically mandate of local group credit committees.
a client or counterparty failure to meet the terms of any agreement.
Credit and The relevant credit committees within counterparty risk arises when funds Investec will also consider wrong-way are extended, committed, invested, or risk at the time of granting credit limits to otherwise exposed through contractual each counterparty.
In the banking book agreements, whether reflected onor offenvironment, wrong-way risk occurs balance sheet.
where the value of collateral to secure a transaction, or guarantor, is positively Credit and counterparty risk arises correlated with the probability of default primarily from three types of transactions: of the borrower or counterparty.
For Lending transactions through loans and counterparty credit risk resulting from advances to clients and counterparties transactions in traded products such creates the risk that an obligor will be as OTC derivatives, wrong-way risk is unable or unwilling to repay capital defined as exposure to a counterparty and or interest on loans and advances that is adversely correlated with the credit granted to them.
This category quality of that counterparty.
It arises when includes bank placements, where we default risk and credit exposure increase have placed funds with other financial together.
3 3 institutions Credit and counterparty risk may also Issuer risk on financial instruments arise in other ways and it is the role of the where payments due from the issuer Global Risk Management functions and of a financial instrument will not be the various independent credit committees received to identify risks falling outside these definitions.
Trading transactions, giving rise to settlement and replacement risk Credit and counterparty collectively counterparty risk : risk governance structure To manage, measure and mitigate credit Settlement risk is the risk that the and counterparty risk, independent credit settlement of a transaction does committees exist in each geography where not take place as expected.
Our we assume credit risk.
These committees definition of settlement debtors is a operate under board-approved delegated short-term receivable i. e. less than limits, policies and procedures.
There is a two days which is excluded from Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 43 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued high level of executive involvement and nonWe have little appetite for executive review and oversight in the credit Our assessment of unsecured debt and require that decision-making forums.
It is our policy that good quality collateral is our clients includes all centralised credit committees comprise provided in support of consideration of voting members who are independent of obligations refer to page 69 for the originating business unit.
their character to enter into a transaction are based on and integrity, core Target clients include high net worth and unanimous consent.
or high-income individuals, professionally competencies, In addition to the group credit committee, qualified individuals, established track record and the following processes assist in corporates, small and medium enterprises, managing, measuring and monitoring financial institutions and sovereigns.
financial strength credit and counterparty risk: Corporates must have scale and relevance in their market, an experienced Day-to-day arrears management and management team, able board members, regular arrears forecast reporting strong earnings and cash flow.
ensure that individual positions and anypotential trends are dealt with We are client-centric in our approach inatimely manner and originate loans with the intent of holding these assets to maturity, Watchlist committee, which reviews therebydeveloping a hands-on and the management of distressed loans, long-standing relationship.
potential problem loans and exposures in arrears that require additional Interbank lending is largely reserved attention and supervision for those banks and institutions in the groups core geographies of activity which Corporate watch forum, which reviews are systemic and highly rated.
Direct and manages exposures that may exposures to cyclical industries and potentially become distressed as a result start-up ventures are generally avoided.
of changes in the economic environment or adverse share price movements, or In certain instances we have that are vulnerable to volatile exchange elected to sell certain assets rate or interest rate movements down and or securitise them Arrears, default and recoveries forum refer to page 73 for further which specifically reviews and manages information.
distressed loans and potentially distressed loans for private clients.
Concentration risk This forum also reviews and monitors Concentration risk is when large exposures counterparties who have been granted forbearance measures.
exist to a single client or counterparty, group of connected counterparties, or Credit and counterparty risk to a particular geography, asset class appetite or industry.
An example of this would There is a preference for primary exposure be where a number of counterparties in the groups main operating geography are affected by similar economic, legal, i. e. the UK.
The group will accept regulatory or other factors that could mean exposures where we have a branch or their ability to meet contractual obligations 3 3 local banking subsidiary, and tolerate are correlated.
exposures to other countries where we Concentration risk can also exist where have developed a local understanding portfolio loan maturities are clustered to and capability or we are facilitating a single periods in time.
Loan maturities are transaction for a client who requires monitored on a portfolio and a transaction facilities in a foreign geography.
level by Group Risk Management, Group Our assessment of our clients and Lending Operations as well as the counterparties includes consideration originating business units.
of their character and integrity, core Credit and counterparty risk is always competencies, track record and financial assessed with reference to the aggregate strength.
Astrong emphasis is placed on exposure to a single counterparty or the historic and ongoing stability of income group of related parties to manage and cash flow streams generated by the concentrationrisk.
Ourprimary assessment method is therefore the ability of the client to meet their paymentobligations.
44 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Regular monitoring and review of If two assessments are available, the Risk appetite existing and potential exposures once more conservative will apply The board has set a group risk appetite facilities have been approved Where there are three or more credit limit framework which regulates the ratings with different risk-weightings, A high level of executive involvement maximum exposures we would be the credit ratings corresponding to the in decision-making with non-executive comfortable to tolerate in order to diversify two lowest ratings should be referred review and oversight.
This limit framework to and the higher of those two ratings is monitored on an ongoing basis and Regular reporting of credit and should be applied.
reported to the GRCC and BRCC on counterparty risk exposures within our a regular basis.
Should there be any The group applies the standardised operating units is made to management, breaches to limits, or where exposures approach for capital requirements in the the executives and the board at the GRCC are nearing limits these exceptions are assessment of its credit and counterparty and BRCC.
The board regularly reviews specifically highlighted for attention, and exposures.
The groups banking and approves the appetite for credit and any remedial actions agreed.
subsidiaries conduct their mapping of counterparty risk, which is documented credit and counterparty exposures in in risk appetite statements and policy Sustainability accordance with the mapping procedures documents.
This is implemented and considerations reviewed by GroupCredit.
specified by the Central Bank Registrar, in Investec has a holistic approach to the respective geographies in which the Despite strict adherence to the above sustainability, which runs beyond group operates.
principles, increased default risk may arise recognising our own footprint on the from unforeseen circumstances particularly Stress testing and portfolio environment and includes our many in times of extreme market volatility and management CSI activities and our funding and weak economic conditions.
This is not merely During the year, Investec has enhanced for business reasons, but based on a its stress testing framework by developing A large proportion of the banks portfolio is broader responsibility to our environment a repeatable stress testing process, not rated by external rating agencies.
Accordingly, sustainability designed to identify and regularly test the place reliance upon internal consideration risk considerations are considered by banks key vulnerabilities under stress.
of counterparties and borrowers, and use the credit committee and investment ratings prepared externally where available A fundamental part of the stress testing committee when making lending or as support in our decision-making process.
process is a full and comprehensive investment decisions.
In particular the Within the credit approval process, internal analysis of all the banks material business following factors are taken into account and external ratings are included in the activities, incorporating views from Risk, when a transaction might be approved assessment of the client quality.
the business and the executive a or declined based on the outcome of the Internal credit rating models are process called the bottom-up analysis.
sustainability considerations: being developed to cover all material Out of the bottom-up analysis the Environmental considerations asset classes.
Theinternal ratings are Investec-specific stress scenarios are including animal welfare incorporated in the risk management and designed to specifically test the unique decision-making process and are used Social considerations attributes of the banks portfolio.
in credit assessment, monitoring and Economic considerations.
These Investec-specific stress scenarios approval as well as pricing.
form an integral part of our capital planning Refer to our sustainability report Exposures are classified to reflect the process.
The stress testing process also on our website.
bank's risk appetite and strategy.
At a informs the risk appetite review process, high level the exposures are classified Management and and the management of risk appetite according to the Basel asset classes measurement of credit limits and is a key risk management tool which include sovereign, bank, corporate, and counterparty risk of the bank.
This process allows the bank retail, equity, securitisation and specialised 3 3 to identify underlying risks and manage Fundamental principles employed lending which is further categorised into themaccordingly.
in the management of credit and project finance: commodities finance: counterparty risk are: high volatility commercial real estate: and Notwithstanding the form of the stress income-producing commercial real estate.
A clear definition of our target market testing process, the framework should not impede the group from being able A quantitative and qualitative Fitch, S&P, Moodys and DBRS have to be flexible and perform ad hoc stress assessment of the creditworthiness been approved as eligible external credit tests, which by their nature need to be ofour counterparties assessment institutions ECAIs for the completed on request and in response to purposes of determining external credit Analysis of risks, including emerging risk issues.
ratings with the following elections: concentration risk concentration risk considerations include asset Quarterly portfolio reviews are also In relation to sovereigns and class, industry, counterparty and securitisations, Fitch, Moodys, S&P undertaken on all material businesses, where geographical concentration and DBRS have been selected by the portfolios are analysed to assess any Investec as eligible ECAIs.
migration in portfolio quality, highlight any Decisions are made with reference to vulnerabilities, identify portfolio concentrations risk appetite limits In relation to banks, corporates and and make appropriate recommendations, debt securities, Fitch, Moodys and Prudential limits S&P are recognised as eligible ECAIs Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 45 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued such as a reduction in risk appetite limits or manage their wealth.
This includes the robustness of the cash generation private client mortgages, transactional for the business based on historic specific exposures.
banking, high net worth lending, trust and forecast information.
We typically Credit and counterparty risk and fiduciary, offshore banking and act as transaction lead or arranger, nature of lending activities and have a close relationship with foreign exchange management and the sponsor.
Credit and counterparty risk is assumed Residential Mortgages provides through a range of client-driven lending mortgage loan facilities for highCorporate Debt Securities: these are activities to private and corporate clients income professionals and high net tradable corporate debt instruments, and other counterparties, such as financial worth individuals tailored to their purchased based on acceptable institutions and sovereigns.
These credit fundamentals typically with a individual needs as well as vanilla activities are diversified across a number mortgage products for professional medium-term hold strategy where the ofbusinessactivities.
underlying risk is to UK and European target marketclients corporates.
This is a highly diversified, Lending collateralised by property Specialised Lending provides tailored granular portfolio that is robust and Client quality and expertise are at the core credit facilities to high net worth spread across a variety of geographies of our credit philosophy.
Our exposure to individuals and their controlled entities and industries.
the property market is well diversified with An analysis of the private client Acquisition Finance: provides debt strong bias towards prime locations for loan portfolio and asset quality funding to proven management residential exposure and focus on tenant information is provided on teams, running small to mid-cap sized quality for commercial assets.
Debt service pages 66 and 67. companies.
Credit risk is assessed cover ratios are a key consideration in the against debt service coverage from lending process supported by reasonable Corporate client activities the robustness of the cash generation loan to security value ratios.
We focus on traditional client-driven of the business.
This will be based We provide senior debt and other funding corporate lending activities, in addition to on historic and forecast information.
for property transactions, with a strong Wetypically lend on a bilateral basis customer flow-related treasury and trading preference for income producing assets and benefit from a close relationship execution services.
supported by an experienced sponsor with management.
Within the corporate lending businesses, providing a material level of cash equity Asset-based Lending: provides working credit risk can arise from corporate loans, investment into the asset.
capital and corporate loans secured acquisition finance, asset finance, power An analysis of the lending by mid-caps.
These loans are secured and infrastructure finance, asset-based collateralised by property on the assets of the business, e. g. lending, fund finance and resource finance.
portfolio and asset quality the accounts receivable, inventory, We also undertake debt origination information is provided on plant and machinery.
Incommon activities for corporate clients.
pages 66 and 67. with our corporate lending activities, The Credit Risk Management functions strong emphasis is placed on backing Private client activities companies with scale and relevance to approve specific credit and counterparty Our private banking activities target high their industry, stability of cash flow, and limits that govern the maximum credit net worth individuals, active wealthy experienced management.
exposure to each individual counterparty.
entrepreneurs, high-income professionals, In addition, further risk management limits Fund Finance: provides debt facilities newly qualified professionals with highexist through industry and country limits to asset managers and fund vehicles, income earning potential, self-employed to manage concentration risk.
The credit principally in private equity and credit entrepreneurs, owner managers in appetite for each counterparty is based asset classes.
The geographical focus smalltomid-cap corporates and on the financial strength of the principal is the UK, Western Europe and North sophisticated investors.
borrower, the underlying cash flow to the America, where Investec can support transaction, the substance and track record 3 3 Lending products are tailored to meet experienced asset managers and their of management, and the security package.
funds which show strong, long-term the requirements of our clients.
Central Political risk insurance, and other insurance is value creation and good custodianship to our credit philosophy is ensuring the taken where they are deemed appropriate.
Fund manager sustainability of cash flow and income loans are structured against committed throughout the cycle.
As such, the client Investec has limited appetite for unsecured fund management cash flows and the base has been grouped and defined credit risk and facilities are typically secured managers investment stake in their to include high net worth clients who, on the assets of the underlying borrower.
through diversification of income streams, will reduce income volatility and individuals A summary of the nature of the lending Small Ticket Asset Finance: provides with a profession which has historically and or credit risk assumed within some of highly diversified lending to small supported a high and sustainable income the key areas within our corporate lending and medium-sized corporates to stream irrespective of the stage in the business is provided below: support asset purchases and other economic cycle.
These facilities Corporate Loans: provides senior are secured against the asset being Credit risk arises from the following activities: secured loans to mid to large cap financed and are a direct obligation companies.
Credit risk is assessed Personal Banking delivers products ofthe company.
against debt service coverage from to enable target clients to create and 46 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Large Ticket Asset Finance: provides corporate broker under pre-agreed the finance and structuring expertise market risklimits.
Settlement trades Credit and for aircraft and larger lease assets, the arelargely on a delivery versus counterparty risk is majority of which are senior secured payment basis, through major stock loans with a combination of corporate, exchanges.
Credit risk only occurs in assumed through cash flow and asset-backed collateral the event of counterparty failure and a range of clientagainst the exposure.
would be linked to any fair value losses driven lending on the underlying security.
Power and Infrastructure Finance: activities to private arranges and provides typically longCustomer trading activities to facilitate term financing for infrastructure assets, client lending: Our customer trading and corporate in particular renewable power projects portfolio consists of derivative contracts clients and other and transport, against contracted in interest rates, foreign exchange, future cash flows of the project s counterparties, commodities and equities that are from recognised utilities and power entered to facilitate a clients hedging such as financial companies as well as the balance requirements.
The counterparties to such institutions and sheet of the corporate.
There is a transactions are typically corporates, in strong equity contribution from an particular where they have a sizeable sovereigns.
exposure to foreign exchange due to activities are operating in sectors that include imports Resource Finance: debt arranging and and exports of goods and services.
These diversified across a underwriting together with structured positions are marked to market with daily hedging solutions mainly within the mining number of business margin calls to mitigate credit exposure in sectors.
The underlying commodities activities the event of counterparty default.
are mainly precious and base metals and coal.
Our clients in this sector are An analysis of the corporate established mining companies which are client loan portfolio and asset typically domiciled and publicly listed in quality information is provided on one of the following geographies the pages 66 and 67.
UK, North America and Australia.
All facilities are secured by the borrowers Wealth & Investment assets and repaid from mining cash flows.
Investec Wealth & Investment provides investment management services to private Structured Credit: These are bonds clients, charities, intermediaries, pension secured against a pool of assets, schemes and trusts.
Wealth & Investment is typically UK residential mortgages or primarily an agency business with a limited European or US leverage loans.
The amount of principal risk.
Its core business bonds are mainly investment grade is discretionary and non-discretionary rated, which benefit from a high level of investment management services.
credit subordination and can withstand a significant level of portfolio defaults.
Settlement risk can arise due to undertaking transactions in an agency Treasury Placements: The Treasury capacity on behalf of clients.
However, function, as part of the daily the risk is not considered to be material management of the banks liquidity, as most transactions are undertaken with places funds with central banks and large institutional clients, are monitored other commercial banks and financial daily, and trades are usually settled within institutions.
These transactions are 3 two days.
3 typically short term less than one month money market placements Asset Management or secured repurchase agreements.
Investec Asset Management regularly These market counterparties are transacts with well known rated market high investment grade rated entities counterparties.
These are all on an that occupy dominant and systemic exchange traded delivery versus payment positions in their domestic banking markets.
These counterparties are basis and exposure is to a movement in the value of the underlying security in the located in the UK, Western Europe andNorth America.
Direct cash placements follow our policy, as Corporate advisory and investment outlined above, of only being exposed to banking activities: Counterparty risk systemic banks of investment grade quality in this area is modest.
The business in the UK, Europe and the US.
also trades approved shares on an approved basis and makes markets in shares where we are appointed Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 47 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Asset quality analysis credit risk classification and provisioning policy It is a policy requirement overseen by Central Credit Management that each operating division makes provision for specific impairments and calculates the appropriate level of portfolio impairments.
This is in accordance with established group guidelines and in conjunction with the watchlist committee process.
In the annual financial statements, credit losses and impairments are reported in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Regulatory and Arrears, default and economic capital recoveries classification classification IFRS impairment treatment category Description Performing assets For assets which form part of a Past due An account is considered to be past due when homogeneous portfolio, a portfolio it is greater than zero and less than or equal to impairment is required which 60 days past due the contractual credit agreed recognises asset impairments that have payment due date.
Management, however, is not been individually identified.
not concerned and there is confidence in the counterpartys ability to repay the past due The portfolio impairment takes into obligations.
account past events and does not cover impairments to exposures arising Special mention The counterparty is placed in special mention out of uncertain future events.
when that counterparty is considered to be experiencing difficulties that may threaten the By definition, this impairment is only counterpartys ability to fulfil its credit obligation calculated for credit exposures which to the group i. e. watchlist committee is are managed on a portfolio basis and concerned for the following reasons: only for assets where a loss trigger Covenant breaches event has occurred.
There is a slowdown in the counterpartys business activity An adverse trend in operations that signals apotential weakness in the financial strength of the counterparty Any restructured credit exposures until appropriate watchlist committee decides otherwise.
Ultimate loss is not expected, but may occur ifadverse conditions persist.
Reporting categories: Credit exposures overdue 1 60 days Credit exposures overdue 61 90 days.
3 3 48 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Regulatory and Arrears, default and economic capital recoveries classification classification IFRS impairment treatment category Description Assets in default Specific impairments are evaluated on Sub-standard The counterparty is placed in sub-standard non-performing a case-by-case basis where objective when the credit exposure reflects an underlying, assets evidence of impairment has arisen.
In well-defined weakness that may lead to determining specific impairments, the probable loss if not corrected: following factors are considered: The risk that such credit exposure may Capability of the client to generate become an impaired asset is probable sufficient cash flow to service The bank is relying, to a large extent, on debt obligations and the ongoing available collateral: or viabilityof the clients business The primary sources of repayment are Likely dividend or amount insufficient to service the remaining recoverable on liquidation or contractual principal and interest amounts, bankruptcy or business rescue and the bank has to rely on secondary Nature and extent of claims by sources for repayment.
These secondary other creditors sources may include collateral, the sale of a fixed asset, refinancing and further capital.
Amount and timing of expected cash flows Credit exposures overdue for more than 90 Realisable value of security held days will at a minimum be included in subor other credit mitigants standard or a lower quality category.
Ability of the client to make payments in the foreign Doubtful The counterparty is placed in doubtful when currency, for foreign currencythe credit exposure is considered to be denominated accounts.
impaired, but not yet considered a final loss due to some pending factors such as a merger, new financing or capital injection which may strengthen the quality of the relevant exposure.
Loss A counterparty is placed in the loss category when: The credit exposure is considered to be uncollectible once all efforts, such as realisation of collateral and institution of legal proceedings, have been exhausted: or Assets in this category are expected to be written off in the short term since the likelihood of future economic benefits resulting from such assets are remote.
3 3 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 49 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued or guarantee in support of a transaction in Credit risk mitigation our private client business.
Investec has Credit risk mitigation techniques limited appetite The second primary collateral in private can be defined as all methods by which client lending transactions is over a Investec seeks to decrease the credit risk for unsecured high-net-worth individuals investment associated with an exposure.
This is typically in the form of a considers credit risk mitigation techniques diversified pool of equity, fixed income, to mitigate risk as part of the credit assessment of a managed funds and cash.
Often these potential client or business proposal through good portfolios are managed by Investec and not as a separate consideration of Wealth & Investment.
Lending against quality tangible mitigation of risk.
Credit risk mitigants investment portfolios is typically geared at can include any collateral item over which collateral very conservative loan-to-value ratios after the bank has a pledge of security, netting considering the quality, diversification, risk and margining agreements, covenants, profile and liquidity of theportfolio.
or terms and conditions imposed on a borrower with the aim of reducing the Our corporate, government and credit risk inherent to that transaction.
institutional clients provide a range of collateral including cash, corporate assets, As Investec has a limited appetite for debtors accounts receivable, trading unsecured debt, the credit risk mitigation stock, debt securities bonds, listed and technique most commonly used is unlisted shares and guarantees.
the taking of collateral, with a strong preference for tangible assets.
Collateral The majority of credit mitigation techniques is assessed with reference to the linked to trading activity is in the form of sustainability of value and the likelihood netting agreements and daily margining.
Acceptable collateral The primary market standard legal generally exhibits characteristics that documents that govern this include the allow for it to be easily identified and International Swaps and Derivatives appropriately valued.
Association Master Agreements ISDA, Global Master Securities Lending An analysis of collateral is Agreement GMSLA and Global Master provided on page 69.
In addition to having ISDA documentation Where a transaction is supported by a in place with all market and trading mortgage or charge over property, the counterparties in over-the-counter OTC primary credit risk is still taken on the derivatives, a Credit Support Annex CSA borrower.
For property backed lending ensures that all mark-to-market credit such as residential mortgages, the exposure is mitigated daily through the following characteristics of the property calculation and placement receiving of are considered: the type of property: cash collateral.
Where netting agreements its location: and the ease with which have been signed, the enforceability is the property could be re-let and or resupported by external legal opinion within sold.
Where the property is secured by the legal jurisdiction of theagreement.
lease agreements, the credit committee prefers not to lend for a term beyond Set-off has been applied between assets the maximum of the lease.
Commercial subject to credit risk and related liabilities real estate generally takes the form of in the annual financial statements where: 3 good quality property often underpinned 3 by strong third party leases.
Residential A legally enforceable right to setproperty is also generally of a high offexists quality and based in desirable locations.
There is the intention to settle the Residential and commercial property asset and liability on a net basis, or to valuations will continue to form part of our realise the asset and settle the liability ongoing focus on collateral assessment.
It is our policy to obtain a formal valuation of every commercial property offered In addition to the above accounting set-off as collateral for a lending facility before criteria, banking regulators impose the advancing funds.
Residential properties following additional criteria: are valued by desktop valuation and or approved valuers, where appropriate.
Debit and credit balances relate to the same obligor counterparty Other common forms of collateral in the retail asset class are, cash and share Debit and credit balances are portfolios.
In addition, the relevant credit denominated in the same currency committee normally requires a suretyship and have identical maturities 50 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Exposures subject to set-off are for mitigation purposes, the exposure to professional finance and asset finance risk-managed on a net basis the borrower will be substituted with an businesses were the principal drivers exposure to the protection provider, after behind the 56.6% decline in HNW Market practice considerations.
applying a haircut to the value of the and other private client lending, which collateral due to currency and or maturity has decreased from 2.8 billion at For this reason there will be instances mismatches between the original exposure 31 March2014 to 1.2billion at where credit and counterparty exposures and the collateral provided.
The Kensington and are displayed on a net basis in these credit protection includes eligible Startdivestments have significantly annual financial statements but reported guarantees and credit derivatives.
Where reduced our legacy exposures.
on a gross basis to regulators.
we rely on funded protection in the form of Active portfolio management has materially Investec places minimal reliance on credit financial collateral, the value of collateral refocused the banks core lending portfolio derivatives in its credit risk mitigation is adjusted using the financial collateral lending collateralised by property techniques.
Periodically the bank in the comprehensive method.
This method has declined by 8.7% from 2.5billion UK will enter into Credit Default Swaps applies supervisory volatility adjustments at 31March2014 to 2.3billion at CDS in order to hedge a specific asset tothe value of the collateral, and includes 31March2015: while corporate client held or to create a more general or macro the currency and maturity haircuts and other lending has increased 20.2% hedge against a group of exposures discussed above.
from 3.1billion at 31March 2014 to in one industry or geography.
In these Please refer to the credit 3.7billion at 31March2015.
On a likeinstances, the bank is deemed to be qualitystep table disclosed on for-like basis, after excluding the impact of buying protection against the assets.
page 111 for a breakdown of divestments, HNW and other private client Depending on the perceived risk, or regulatory exposure values lending increased by 12% year-on-year.
spread, of the underlying exposure, the before and after credit risk CDS will fluctuate in value: increasing Net core loans and advances have mitigation has been applied.
in value when the asset has become decreased by 14.1% to 7.1 billion more risky and decreasing when risk has Forbearance at 31March 2015 from 8.2 billion at reduced.
Occasionally, the bank will enter 31March 2014 reflecting the impact of Forbearance measures refer to into trading investment CDS positions the divestments, but partially offset by concessions such as modification of the where we buy protection or sell protection increased net loan growth.
Excluding terms and conditions or refinancing that without owning the underlying asset.
divestments, net core loans increased by has been granted to a debtor in financial The total amount of net credit derivatives approximately 16%, largely as a result of difficulties.
These modifications are on outstanding at 31March2015 amounts solid growth in our diversified corporate terms that would be more advantageous to 10.9 million, of which 6.3million is lending activities.
compared with what other debtors with used for credit mitigation purposes and a similar risk profile could have obtained the balance for trading and investment.
Default loans net of impairments have from the bank.
The credit committee will Total protection bought amounts to decreased by 19.7% or 52 million on an assess each application to determine 15.2million 9.8million relating to absolute basis and decreased to 3.00% whether the proposed modifications will be credit derivatives used in credit mitigation from 3.21% as a percentage of net core considered as forbearance.
Forbearance and total protection sold amounts to loans and advances.
Gross defaults is distinguished from commercial 4.3million 3.5million relating to credit decreased by 12.4% or 56.9million renegotiations which take place as derivatives used in credit mitigation.
from 457.0 million at 31March2014 part of normal business activity and to 400.1million at 31March 2015.
Further information on credit standard banking practice.
The amount Thecredit loss ratio is at 1.16% 2014: derivatives is provided on of loans forborne represents a negligible 0.99% : the increase in the credit loss page 79. percentage of the overall loan portfolio in ratio is largely attributable to the reduction our UK book.
in denominator gross core loans and Investec endeavours to implement robust advances have decreased to 7.2billion processes to minimise the possibility Credit and counterparty risk from 8.4 billion, due to the sale of core 3 3 of legal and or operational risk through year in review loans through the divestments.
Wehave good quality tangible collateral.
Thelegal We continue to realign and rebalance reported an increase in impairments on risk function in Investec ensures the our portfolio in line with our stated risk thelegacy portfolio.
enforceability of credit risk mitigants within appetite, which is reflected in the growth the laws applicable to the jurisdictions in The sections that follow provide high-level in corporate client exposures and the which Investec operates.
When assessing commentary for each of our key business decline in lending collateralised by the potential concentration risk in its credit areas.
We are highly focused on reducing property exposures.
Material progress portfolio, consideration is given to the legacy assets and originating good has been made during the year in our types of collateral and credit protection qualityassets.
strategic portfolio rebalancing, in part that form part of the portfolio.
through strategic divestments but also Lending collateralised by property through active portfolio management For regulatory reporting purposes, The overall exposure to property and the consistent application of our risk exposures may be reduced by eligible collateralised assets, as a proportion of our appetitestatement.
Under the standardised total loan exposures, has reduced in line approach credit risk mitigation can Three divestments, namely the sale with our risk appetite statement.
A large be achieved through either funded of Kensington, Start Irish mortgages proportion of property collateralised assets or unfunded credit protection.
Where and Investec Bank Australia Limiteds are located in the UK and, notwithstanding unfunded credit protection is relied upon Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 51 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued the improved UK market and particularly Private client activities across all our business lines, while in London, our underwriting criteria has ensuring that we maintain strong asset The existing high-net-worth mortgage remained tight and we remain committed quality and adherence to our core credit book has continued to grow significantly to following a client-centric approach, philosophies.
and is expected to continue in the backing counterparties with strong balance next 12months as the bank moves Performance of the Corporate portfolio, sheets and requisiteexpertise.
to increase its private client offering, including Small Ticket Asset finance, providing a more holistic private bank Large Ticket Asset finance, Power and We have actively managed the legacy experience from transactional banking Infrastructure finance and Fund finance, portfolio down, working assets to achieve to wealth management.
Investec has remained strong during the financial optimal recovery but taking opportunistic Professional Mortgages was relaunched in year 2015, with the markets seeing lending offers on properties where appropriate.
activity levels increase, bolstered by strong Thecontinuing improvement in the UK private equity sponsor appetite for assets.
property market has assisted further Corporate client activities Underlying asset cover quality is good, acceleration of this process and we expect Our corporate lending businesses have and portfolios remain well diversified by this to continue over the forthcoming seen strong growth during the financial borrower, sector and geography, albeit 12months.
Growth in our corporate with a natural skew towards the UK.
lending activities has been diversified Credit and counterparty risk information Pages 40 to 52 describe where and how credit risk is assumed in our operations.
The tables that follow provide an analysis of the credit and counterparty exposures.
An analysis of gross credit and counterparty exposures Credit and counterparty exposures decreased by 11.8% to 16.0 billion largely as a result of the divestments of Kensington, Start and Investec Bank Australia Limited.
Cash and near cash balances amount to 5.0 billion and are largely reflected in the following line items in the table below: cash and balances at central banks loans and advances to banks and sovereign debtsecurities.
Excludes guarantees provided to clients which are backed secured by cash on deposit with the bank.
52 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued A further analysis of our on-balance sheet credit and counterparty exposures The table below indicates in which class of asset on the face of the consolidated balance sheet our on-balance sheet credit and counterparty exposures are reflected.
Not all assets included in the balance sheet bear credit and counterparty risk.
Assets that Total credit we deem and to have no Note Total counterparty legal credit referbalance 000 exposure exposure ence sheet At 31 March 2015 Cash and balances at central banks 2 179 822 1 420 2 181 242 Loans and advances to banks 1 053 932 1 053 932 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 1 448 205 1 448 205 Sovereign debt securities 1 212 910 1 212 910 Bank debt securities 226 273 226 273 Other debt securities 221 480 1 005 222 485 Derivative financial instruments 516 034 258 987 775 021 Securities arising from trading activities 513 673 156 625 670 298 Investment portfolio 400 941 1 400 941 Loans and advances to customers 7 249 561 188 444 2 7 061 117 Other loans and advances 393 353 161 559 554 912 Other securitised assets 51 223 360 760 3 411 983 Interest in associated undertakings 21 931 21 931 Deferred taxation assets 73 618 73 618 Other assets 55 383 1 280 197 4 1 335 580 Property and equipment 63 069 63 069 Investment properties 65 736 65 736 Goodwill 356 090 356 090 Intangible assets 136 655 136 655 Total on-balance sheet exposures 15 121 849 3 150 149 18 271 998 1.
Relates to exposures that are classified as equity risk in the banking book.
Further information is provided on pages 70 to 72.
Largely relates to impairments and the impact of hedge accounting.
While the group manages all risks including credit risk from a day-to-day operational perspective, certain of these assets are within special purpose vehicles that ring-fence the assets to specific credit providers and limit security to the assets in the vehicle.
The table above reflects the net credit exposure in the vehicles that the group has reflected in the total credit and counterparty exposure with the maximum credit exposure referenced to credit providers external to the group in the column headed assets that we deem to have no legal credit exposure.
Other assets include settlement debtors which we deem to have no credit risk exposure as they are settled on a delivery against payment basis.
3 3 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 53 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued A further analysis of our on-balance sheet credit and counterparty exposures continued Assets that Total credit we deem and to have no Note Total counterparty legal credit referbalance 000 exposure exposure ence sheet At 31 March 2014 Cash and balances at central banks 1 735 333 7 285 1 742 618 Loans and advances to banks 1 307 570 1 307 570 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 1 215 500 1 215 500 Sovereign debt securities 1 232 416 1 232 416 Bank debt securities 371 183 371 183 Other debt securities 218 190 11 038 229 228 Derivative financial instruments 525 526 394 489 920 015 Securities arising from trading activities 419 408 167 298 586 706 Investment portfolio 342 597 1 342 597 Loans and advances to customers 7 967 313 192 686 2 7 774 627 Own originated loans and advances to customers 448 255 617 2 447 638 Other loans and advances 1 451 925 220 784 3 1 672 709 Other securitised assets 184 483 2 613 675 3, 4 2 798 158 Interest in associated undertakings 21 366 21 366 Deferred taxation assets 105 109 105 109 Other assets 137 665 1 061 392 5 1 199 057 Property and equipment 65 923 65 923 Investment properties 61 715 61 715 Goodwill 427 011 427 011 Intangible assets 153 348 153 348 Total on-balance sheet exposures 17 214 767 5 459 727 22 674 494 1.
Includes net investments in Kensington securitised vehicles to which Investec has no direct exposure.
3 3 54 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Gross credit and counterparty exposures by residual contractual maturity at 31 March 2015 Six Up Three months One to three to six to one to five Five to 10 000 months months year years 10 years years Total Cash and balances at central banks 2 179 822 2 179 822 Loans and advances to banks 1 053 932 1 053 932 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 1 448 205 1 448 205 Sovereign debt securities 453 514 157 468 6 639 595 289 1 212 910 Bank debt securities 65 45 350 132 33 569 147 157 226 273 Other debt securities 1 308 272 4 615 49 925 49 479 115 881 221 480 Derivative financial instruments 114 939 63 930 81 953 153 463 61 608 40 141 516 034 Securities arising from trading activities 346 299 79 098 1 556 62 932 4 372 19 416 513 673 Loans and advances to customers gross 1 472 478 757 217 754 805 3 160 536 690 441 414 084 7 249 561 Other loans and advances gross 29 381 439 127 63 932 46 583 252 891 393 353 Other securitised assets gross 467 50 756 51 223 Other assets 55 383 55 383 Total on-balance sheet exposures 7 155 793 1 103 774 849 827 3 524 357 999 640 1 488 458 15 121 849 Guarantees 28 070 2 370 1 224 31 664 Contingent liabilities, committed facilities and other 63 641 49 430 154 607 447 093 15 753 105 334 835 858 Total off-balance sheet exposures 91 711 49 430 156 977 448 317 15 753 105 334 867 522 Total gross credit and counterparty exposures pre-collateral or other credit enhancements 7 247 504 1 153 204 1 006 804 3 972 674 1 015 393 1 593 792 15 989 371 Excludes guarantees provided to clients which are backed secured by cash on deposit with the bank.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 57 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Summary analysis of gross credit and balances held with institutions and central counterparty exposures by industry banks, thus the large balance reflected Corporate client in the public and non-business services A description of the type of loans account and finance and insurance sectors.
These corporate client lending we for 51.0% of total exposures also include off-balance sheet undertake, is provided on items such as guarantees, committed pages 46 and 47, and a more gross core loans facilities and contingent liabilities, largely detailed analysis of the and advances, to our HNW and professional individual corporate client loan portfolio is clients.
and are well provided on pages 66 and 67. diversified across A description of the type of The remainder of core loans and advances private client lending and largely relate to private client lending, as various industry lending collateralised by represented by the industry classification classifications property we undertake is HNW and professional individuals, as well provided on page 46, and a as lending collateralised by property.
more detailed analysis of the Other credit and counterparty exposures private client loanportfolio is are largely reflective of cash and near cash provided on pages 66 and 67.
At 31 March 000 2015 2014 Loans and advances to customers as per the balance sheet 7 061 117 7 774 627 Add: own originated loans and advances securitised as per the balance sheet 447 638 Net core loans and advances to customers 7 061 117 8 222 265 The tables that follow provide information with respect to the asset quality of our core loans and advances to customers.
An overview of developments during the financial year is provided on pages 51 and 52.
31 March 31 March 000 2015 2014 Gross core loans and advances to customers 7 249 561 8 415 568 Total impairments 188 444 193 303 Specific impairments 154 262 176 866 Portfolio impairments 34 182 16 437 Net core loans and advances to customers 7 061 117 8 222 265 Average gross core loans and advances to customers 7 832 564 8 429 436 Current loans and advances to customers 6 733 402 7 681 073 Past due loans and advances to customers 1 60 days 73 489 124 033 Special mention loans and advances to customers 42 556 153 485 Default loans and advances to customers 400 114 456 977 Gross core loans and advances to customers 7 249 561 8 415 568 Current loans and advances to customers 6 733 402 7 681 073 Default loans that are current and not impaired 26 785 21 254 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired 146 428 308 014 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired 342 946 405 227 Gross core loans and advances to customers 7 249 561 8 415 568 Total income statement charge for impairments on core loans and advances 90 709 83 231 Gross default loans and advances to customers 400 114 456 977 Specific impairments 154 262 176 866 Portfolio impairments 34 182 16 437 3 3 Defaults net of impairments 211 670 263 674 Aggregate collateral and other credit enhancements on defaults 280 697 297 114 Net default loans and advances to customers limited to zero Ratios: Total impairments as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 2.60% 2.30% Total impairments as a % of gross default loans 47.10% 42.30% Gross defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 5.52% 5.43% Defaults net of impairments as a % of net core loans and advances to customers 3.00% 3.21% Net defaults as a % of net core loans and advances to customers Credit loss ratio i. e. income statement impairment charge on core loans as a % of average gross core loans and advances 1.16% 0.99% The loan book age analysis amounts were restated with no impact on primary statements or key ratios.
Net core loans and advances have decreased by 14.1% to 7.1 billion a t 31 March 2015 from 8.2 billion at 31 March 2014 reflecting the impact of the divestments, but partially offset by increased net loan growth.
Excluding divestments, net core loans increased by approximately 16%.
The assets that were not sold as part of the sale of Investec Bank Australia Limited were transferred to the UK and South African balance sheets.
The 2015 numbers above include approximately 140 million of assets transferred.
The increase in the credit loss ratio is largely attributable to the reduction in denominator gross core loans and advances have decreased to 7.2 billion from 8.4 billion, due to strategic sales.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 59 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued An age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers At 31 March 000 2015 2014 Default loans that are current 176 913 145 578 1 60 days 119 496 249 900 61 90 days 2 249 57 441 91 180 days 7 639 13 077 181 365 days 45 758 58 634 365 days 164 104 209 865 Total past due and default core loans and advances to customers actual capital exposure 516 159 734 495 1 60 days 5 796 5 415 61 90 days 172 2 361 91 180 days 2 566 4 645 181 365 days 4 742 14 162 365 days 156 328 192 952 Total past due and default core loans and advances to customers actual amount in arrears 169 604 219 535 The loan book age analysis amounts were restated with no impact on primary statements or key ratios.
3 3 60 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued A further age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers Current watchlist 1 60 61 90 91 180 181 365 365 000 loans days days days days days Total At 31 March 2015 Watchlist loans neither past due nor impaired Total capital exposure 26785 26 785 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired Total capital exposure 113 795 2 249 5 287 9 195 15 902 146 428 Amount in arrears 5 754 172 214 525 8 327 14 992 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired Total capital exposure 150 128 5 701 2 352 36 563 148 202 342 946 Amount in arrears 42 2 352 4 217 148 001 154 612 At 31 March 2014 Watchlist loans neither past due nor impaired Total capital exposure 21 254 21 254 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired Total capital exposure 243 020 42 999 9 298 11 134 1 563 308 014 Amount in arrears 4 497 333 2 197 1 399 724 9 150 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired Total capital exposure 124 324 6 880 14 442 3 779 47 500 208 302 405 227 Amount in arrears 918 2 028 2 448 12 763 192 228 210 385 The loan book age analysis amounts were restated with no impact on primary statements or key ratios.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 65 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued An analysis of core loans and advances by risk category at 31 March 2015 Aggregate collateral and other credit Balance Income Gross core Gross enhancements sheet statement 000 loans defaults on defaults impairments impairments Lending collateralised by property 2 318 053 343 229 233 676 134 451 49 179 Commercial real estate 1 510 506 122 886 79 588 51 517 25 358 Commercial real estate investment 1 229 217 58 142 50 302 11 752 16 157 Commercial real estate development 147 707 20 129 6 544 13 585 3 997 Commercial vacant land and planning 133 582 44 615 22 742 26 180 5 204 Residential real estate 807 547 220 343 154 088 82 934 23 821 Residential real estate investment 292 089 53 911 50 294 10 756 3 178 Residential real estate development 425 258 116 163 74 975 50 571 9 122 Residential vacant land and planning 90 200 50 269 28 819 21 607 11 521 High net worth and other private client lending 1 203 489 30 113 29 012 11 048 10 529 Mortgages 952 617 7 977 13 015 914 713 High net worth and specialised lending 250 872 22 136 15 997 10 134 9 816 Corporate and other lending 3 728 019 26 772 18 009 8 763 11 821 Acquisition finance 731 195 1 231 Asset-based lending 241 859 Fund finance 495 037 Other corporates and financial institutions andgovernments 719 049 3 091 Asset finance 1 119 165 8 346 3 642 4 704 5 068 Small ticket asset finance 835 773 8 346 3 642 4 704 5 068 Large ticket asset finance 283 392 Project finance 407 577 4 289 2 585 1 704 515 Resource finance 14 137 14 137 11 782 2 355 4 378 Portfolio impairments 34 182 19 180 Total 7 249 561 400 114 280 697 188 444 90 709 Where a positive number represents a recovery.
3 3 66 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued An analysis of core loans and advances by risk category at 31 March 2014 Aggregate collateral and other credit Balance Income Gross core Gross enhancements sheet statement 000 loans defaults on defaults impairments impairments Lending collateralised by property 2 538 625 381 256 240 435 143 889 39 880 Commercial real estate 1 662 718 133 222 79 842 54 089 24 273 Commercial real estate investment 1 429 725 67 919 50 757 15 686 16 447 Commercial real estate development 96 072 21 016 11 243 10 466 2 689 Commercial vacant land and planning 136 921 44 287 17 842 27 937 5 137 Residential real estate 875 907 248 034 160 593 89 800 15 607 Residential real estate investment 327 937 39 537 30 023 6 880 2 548 Residential real estate development 429 011 134 762 80 105 56 463 5 931 Residential vacant land and planning 118 959 73 735 50 465 26 457 7 128 High net worth and other private client lending 2 775 968 30 484 36 732 7 684 13 692 Mortgages 1 160 007 4 787 6 114 900 520 High net worth and specialised lending 341 465 19 414 26 502 4 617 9 630 Professional finance 1 274 496 6 283 4 116 2 167 3 542 Corporate and other lending 3 100 975 45 237 19 947 25 293 19 918 Acquisition finance 744 427 17 627 7 933 9 695 10 709 Asset-based lending 165 569 98 Fund finance 277 771 Other corporates and financial institutions andgovernments 420 612 4 241 2 821 1 421 1 641 Asset finance 982 811 10 677 6 192 4 486 3 670 Small ticket asset finance 750 351 8 694 2 720 4 486 4 940 Large ticket asset finance 232 460 1 983 3 472 1 270 Project finance 438 641 12 692 3 001 9 691 3 996 Resource finance 71 144 Portfolio impairments 16 437 9 741 Total 8 415 568 456 977 297 114 193 303 83 231 Where a positive number represents a recovery.
3 3 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 67 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Asset quality trends Percentage billion 6.0 10 5.0 8 4.0 6 3.0 4 2.0 2 Net core loans RHS 1.0 Defaults net of impairments as a % of core advances LHS 0 0 Credit loss ratio LHS 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Includes Australia, which was previously reported separately.
Additional information An analysis of gross core loans and advances to customers by country of exposures 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 7 250 million 8 416 million Asia 3.9% Asia 2.7% Australia 3.4% Australia 21.7% Europe excluding UK 17.7% Europe excluding UK 16.2% North America 7.4% North America 4.0% Other 0.9% Other 1.1% United Kingdom 66.7% United Kingdom 54.3% 3 3 68 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Collateral A summary of total collateral is provided in the table below.
Collateral held against Other Core credit and loans and counterparty 000 advances exposures Total At 31 March 2015 Eligible financial collateral 381 651 557 158 938 809 Listed shares 302 938 82 925 385 863 Cash 78 713 76 511 155 224 Debt securities issued by sovereigns 397 722 397 722 Property charge 4 399 279 217 531 4 616 810 Residential property 2 180 115 217 531 2 397 646 Residential development 554 920 554 920 Commercial property developments 271 843 271 843 Commercial property investments 1 392 401 1 392 401 Other collateral 4 064 743 729 614 4 794 357 Unlisted shares 486 524 486 524 Charges other than property 50 423 729 614 780 037 Debtors, stock and other corporate assets 2 353 919 2 353 919 Guarantees 762 092 762 092 Other 411 785 411 785 Total collateral 8 845 673 1 504 303 10 349 976 At 31 March 2014 Eligible financial collateral 407 003 861 779 1 268 782 Listed shares 296 068 95 668 391 736 Cash 110 935 379 300 490 235 Debt securities issued by sovereigns 386 811 386 811 Property charge 4 779 482 973 574 5 753 056 Residential property 2 166 383 973 390 3 139 773 Residential development 636 555 184 636 739 Commercial property developments 182 186 182 186 Commercial property investments 1 794 358 1 794 358 Other collateral 4 151 227 304 944 4 456 171 3 3 Unlisted shares 194 838 194 838 Charges other than propert y 23 643 304 512 328 155 Debtors, stock and other corporate assets 2 822 119 2 822 119 Guarantees 492 741 492 741 Other 617 886 432 618 318 Total collateral 9 337 712 2 140 297 11 478 009 A large percentage of these exposures for example bank placements are to highly rated financial institutions where limited collateral would be required due to the nature of the exposure.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 69 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued our local market knowledge and Equity and investment Equity and investment banking expertise, we are risk in the banking book well positioned to take direct positions investment risk in listed shares where we believe in the banking Equity and investment risk that the market is mispricing the value of the underlying portfolio with the description book represents intention to stimulate corporate activity Equity and investment risk in the banking a moderate book arises primarily from the following Lending transactions: the manner in percentage of our activities conducted within the group: which we structure certain transactions total assets and results in equity, warrant and profit Principal Investments Private Equity shares being held, predominantly within is managed within and Direct Investments : investments unlisted companies are selected based on the track appropriate risk record of management, the Property activities: we source limits attractiveness of the industry and the development, investment and trading ability to build value for the existing opportunities to create value and trade business by implementing an agreed for profit within agreed risk parameters.
In addition, as a result of Management of equity and investment risk As equity and investment risk arises from a variety of activities conducted by us, the monitoring and measurement thereof varies across transactions and or type of activity.
Nature of equity and investment risk Management of risk Listed equities Investment committee, market risk management and ERRF Investment Banking Principal Finance Investment committee and ERRF investments Embedded derivatives, profit shares Credit risk management committees and investments arising from lending andERRF transactions Investment and trading properties Investment committee and ERRF Risk appetite targets are set to limit our exposure to equity and investment risk.
An assessment of exposures against targets as well as stress testing scenario analyses are performed and reported to GRCC, BRCC and the board.
As a matter of course, concentration risk is avoided and investments are well spread across geographies andindustries.
Valuation and accounting methodologies For a description of our valuation principles and methodologies refer to pages 146 to 150 and pages 170 to 181 for factors taken into consideration 3 3 in determining fairvalue.
We have a low level of assets exposed to the volatility of IFRS fair value accounting with level 3 assets amounting to 4.3% of total assets.
Refer to page 171 for further information.
70 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued The table below provides an analysis of income and revaluations recorded with respect to these investments.
Income pre-funding costs Fair value 000 through Category Unrealised Realised Dividends Total equity For the year to 31 March 2015 Unlisted investments 25673 60017 5106 39450 709 Listed equities 19770 1505 772 22047 425 Investment and trading properties 8664 2354 11018 Warrants, profit shares and other embedded derivatives 70947 1873 69074 Total 68186 65749 5878 3441 1134 For the year to 31 March 2014 2 130 30 235 9 120 41 485 10 996 Unlisted investments Listed equities 2 032 7 786 1 571 7 325 888 Investment and trading properties 4 260 10 500 6 240 Warrants, profit shares and other 51 962 200 51 762 embedded derivatives 47 800 48 321 10 691 106 812 10 108 Total Includes Australia, which was previously reported separately.
Unrealised revaluation gains, recognised in the profit and loss account, are included in common equity tier 1 capital.
In line with the Capital Requirements Regulation, for the period ended 31 March 2014, Investec plc did not recognise equity revaluation gains, posted directly to equity, in regulatory capital.
3 3 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 71 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Summary of investments held and stress testing analyses The balance sheet value of investments is indicated in the table below.
On-balance On-balance sheet Valuation sheet Valuation value of change value of change investments stress test investments stress test 000 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Category 2015 2015 2014 2014 Unlisted investments 287821 43173 278 728 41 809 Listed equities 113120 28280 63 869 15 967 Total investment portfolio 400 941 71 453 342 597 57 776 Investment and trading properties 191499 31726 102 058 8 069 Warrants, profit shares and other embedded derivatives 36111 12639 112 591 39 407 Total 628551 115818 557 246 105 252 Includes Australia, which was previously reported separately.
In order to assess our earnings sensitivity to a movement in the valuation of these investments the following stress testing parameters are applied: Stress test values applied Unlisted investments 15% Listed equities 25% Trading properties 20% Investment properties 10% Warrants, profit shares and other embedded derivatives 35% Stress testing summary Based on the information at 31 March 2015, as reflected above, we could have a 116 million reversal in revenue which assumes a year in which there is a severe stress scenario simultaneously across all asset classes.
This would not cause the group to report a loss but could have a significantly negative impact on earnings for that period.
The probability of all these asset classes in all geographies in which we operate being negatively impacted at the same time is very low, although the probability of listed equities being negatively impacted at the same time is very high.
Capital requirements In terms of CRD IV capital requirements for Investec plc, unlisted and listed equities within the banking book are considered in the calculation of capital required for creditrisk.
Refer to page 107 for further detail.
3 3 An analysis of the investment portfolio, warrants, pro t shares and other embedded derivatives by industry of exposure 31 March 2015 437 million 31 March 2014 455 million Manufacturing and commerce 35.7% Manufacturing and commerce 33.7% Finance and insurance 25.3% Finance and insurance 15.9% Retailer and wholesalers 4.2% Retailer and wholesalers 10.4% Agriculture 4.9% Agriculture 8.9% Mining and resources 9.2% Mining and resources 8.4% Real estate 10.7% Real estate 7.9% Communication 5.4% Communication 4.9% Transport 3.0% Transport 4.0% Business services 0.1% Business services 3.0% Medical 1.2% Medical 2.3% Other 0.3% Other 0.6% Restated.
72 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Fitch Ratings, Moodys, S&P and DBRS analysis looks through to the historical Securitisation structured have been involved in rating these and expected future performance of the credit activities abovementioned transactions.
underlying assets, the position of the relevant tranche in the capital structure as exposures During the year we undertook one well as analysis of the cash flow waterfall new securitisation transaction: Temese under a variety of stress scenarios.
Overview Funding2 Plc, a 280 million securitisation External ratings are presented, but only of finance lease receivables which closed The groups definition of securitisation for information purposes, since the in November 2014.
The deal consists structured credit activities as explained bank principally relies on its own internal of a 228million A note AAA rated by below is wider than the definition as risk assessment.
Overarching these S&P and unrated B and C notes of applied for regulatory capital purposes, transaction level principles is the board- 47million and 5.3 million respectively.
which largely focuses on those approved risk appetite policy, which details Allof the notes issued by the structure securitisations in which the group has the groups appetite for such exposures, were retained by Investec Bank plc.
The achieved significant risk transfer.
We, and each exposure is considered relative purpose of the transaction was for longhowever, believe that the information to the groups overall risk appetite.
We term funding at an attractive rate.
The provided below is meaningful in that can use explicit credit risk mitigation group does not apply the securitisation it groups all these related activities in techniques where required: however, the rules to the above originated transactions order for a reviewer to obtain a fuller group prefers to address and manage when calculating risk-weightedassets.
picture of the activities that we have these risks by only approving exposures For regulatory capital purposes, the group conducted in this space.
Some of the to which the group has explicit appetite continues to recognise the underlying information provided below overlaps through the constant and consistent securitised assets in the consolidated with the groupscredit and counterparty application of the risk appetite policy.
regulatory balance sheet and applies the exposureinformation.
Credit analysis Refer to page 53 for the balance In terms of our analysis of our credit and We hold rated structured credit sheet and credit risk counterparty risk, exposures arising from instruments including resecuritisation classification.
securitisation structured credit activities exposures.
These exposures are largely The group applies the standardised reflect only those exposures to which we in the UK and amount to 317 million consider ourselves to be at risk.
approach in the assessment of at 31March2015 31March2014: regulatory capital for securitisation 349 million.
This is intended as a hold exposures within its banking book to maturity portfolio rather than a trading and trading book.
Therefore, since our commercial exposures at 31March2015 are not intention is to hold the assets to maturity, regarded as material, and therefore the portfolio will be valued on an amortised no further information is disclosed for cost basis.
weighted for regulatory capital purposes.
The information below sets out the In the prior year we held 8 million rated initiatives we have focused on over the securitised assets and 448 million of own past few years, albeit that most of these originated private client assets, relating to business lines have been curtailed given Australias professional finance business.
the changes in the securitisation market Thisbusiness and our residual exposures and given the strategic divestments were sold in July 2014.
Investec has undertaken in the last year.
In the prior year we held residual net The bank plays an originator role in the exposures amounting to 927million to securitisation of assets it has originated.
the assets originated, warehoused and 3 3 To date these have largely been traditional securitised by Kensington.
This business securitisations of residential mortgages and our residual exposures were sold in originated through the Kensington January2015.
business which was disposed of in Accounting policies January 2015.
For regulatory purposes, structured entities are not consolidated Refer to page 147. where significant risk in the structured entity has been transferred to third parties.
Risk management The positions we continue to hold in the All existing or proposed exposures to securitisation will be either risk-weighted a securitisation or a resecuritisation are and or deducted from capital.
analysed on a case-by-case basis, with final approval typically required from the The bank has no securitisations backed by groups global credit committee.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 73 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Exposure Exposure At 31 March 2015 2014 Balance sheet and Nature of exposure activity million million credit risk classification Structured credit Other debt securities and other loans and advances gross exposure 350 440 Rated 317 357 Unrated 33 83 Kensington mortgage assets: 927 net exposures Loans and advances to 170 303 Other loans and advances customers and third party intermediary originating platforms mortgage loans with the potential to be securitised net exposure Private Client division assets 448 Own originated loans and advances to customers securitised which have been securitised net exposure Analysed further below.
Assets have been sold, refer to page 19.
Analysis of rated and unrated structured credit 2015 2014 At 31 March million Rated Unrated Total Rated Unrated Total 116 116 15 15 US corporate loans UK and European ABS 3 7 10 UK and European RMBS 153 29 182 256 72 328 UK and European CMBS 6 4 10 7 4 11 UK and European corporate loans 42 42 68 68 Australian RMBS 8 8 Total 317 33 350 357 83 440 Further analysis of rated structured credit at 31 March 2015 C and million AAA AA A BBB BB B below Total US corporate loans 17 61 29 9 116 UK and European RMBS 30 63 17 20 1 22 153 UK and European CMBS 6 6 UK and European 3 corporateloans 17 14 10 1 42 3 Total at 31 March 2015 64 138 56 36 1 22 317 Total at 31 March 2014 126 78 45 62 23 2 21 357 74 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued The information provided below is provided for Investec plc in terms of regulatory definitions and requirements.
Aggregate amount of securitisation positions retained or purchased Banking book At 31 March 2015 million Retained Purchased Total Exposure type Residential mortgages 14 144 158 Commercial mortgages 7 7 Loans to corporates 154 154 Resecuritisation 3 3 14 308 322 Aggregate amount of securitisation positions retained or purchased Banking book At 31 March 2014 million Retained Purchased Total Exposure type Residential mortgages 50 101 151 Commercial mortgages 6 6 Loans to corporates 91 91 Resecuritisation 29 29 50 227 277 Purchased positions include positions we hold as sponsor or investor.
Retained positions include positions we have retained in securitisations we have originated.
Securitisation positions retained or purchased by risk-weight bands Exposure values Capital requirement Banking book Banking book At 31 March 2015 million Retained Purchased Retained Purchased Risk-weight band Greater than 0% and less than or equal to 40% 14 180 3 Greater than 40% but less than or equal to 100% 123 8 Greater than 100% but less than and equal to 225% Greater than 225% but less than and equal to 350% 1 Greater than 350% but less than and equal to 650% Greater than 650% but less than 1 250% Greater than 1 250% deduction 4 4 14 308 15 Securitisation positions retained or purchased by risk-weight bands Exposure values Capital requirement 3 3 Banking book Banking book At 31 March 2014 million Retained Purchased Retained Purchased Risk-weight band Greater than 0% and less than or equal to 40% 29 179 1 3 Greater than 40% but less than or equal to 100% 18 37 1 2 Greater than 100% but less than and equal to 225% 6 1 Greater than 225% but less than and equal to 350% 1 Greater than 350% but less than and equal to 650% 3 2 Greater than 650% but less than 1 250% Greater than 1 250% deduction 3 1 3 1 50 227 5 9 Purchased positions include positions we hold as sponsor or investor.
No further disclosure is provided for deductions due to the materiality of the numbers.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 75 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued scenario analysis are for example the Management and Market risk following: October1987 Black Monday, measurement of traded market in the tradingbook 11September 2001 and the Lehmans risk crisis.
We also consider the impact of Market Risk Management teams review extreme yet plausible future economic Traded market risk the market risks on our books.
Detailed events on the trading portfolio as well description risk reports are produced daily for each as possible worst case not necessarily trading desk and for the aggregate risk of plausible scenarios.
Scenario analysis is Traded market risk is a measure of the trading book.
done once a week and is included in the potential change in the value of a portfolio data presented to ERRF.
of instruments as a result of changes in These reports are distributed to the financial environment resulting from management and traders.
There is All VaR models, while forward-looking, changes in underlying market risk factors a formal process for management are based on past events and depend such as interest rates, equity markets, recognition and authorisation for any on the quality of available market data.
bond markets, commodity markets, risk excesses incurred.
The production The accuracy of the VaR model as a exchange rates and volatilities between of risk reports allows for the monitoring predictor of potential loss is continuously now and a future point in time.
The of every instrument traded against monitored through backtesting.
This Market Risk Management team identifies, prescribed limits.
Valuation models for new involves comparing the hypothetical clean quantifies and manages the effects of instruments or products are independently trading revenues arising from the previous these potential changes in accordance validated by Market Risk Management days closing positions with the one-day with Basel and policies determined by before trading can commence.
Each VaR calculated for the previous day on theboard.
traded instrument undergoes various these same positions.
If the revenue is stresses to assess potential losses.
Each negative and exceeds the one-day VaR, Within our trading activities, we act as trading desk is monitored on an overall a backtesting breach is considered to principal with clients or the market.
Market basis as an additional control.
Over time we expect the risk, therefore, exists where we have limits are generally tiered with the most average rate of observed backtesting taken on principal positions, resulting liquid and least risky instruments being breaches to be consistent with the from proprietary trading, market making, assigned the largest limits.
percentile of the VaR statistic being tested.
arbitrage, underwriting and investments in the foreign exchange, capital and money The Market Risk Management teams The market risk capital requirement markets.
The focus of these businesses perform a profit attribution, where our is measured using an internal risk is primarily on supporting client activity.
daily traded revenue is attributed to the management model, approved by the Ourstrategic intent is that proprietary various underlying risk factors on a dayPRA, for netting certain parts of the trading should be limited and that trading to-day basis.
An understanding of the portfolio, while the capital requirements should be conducted largely to facilitate sources of profit and loss is essential to of the whole portfolio are calculated using clients in deal execution.
understanding the risks of the business.
Measurement techniques used to quantify The graph that follows shows the result of Traded market risk market risk arising from our trading backtesting total daily VaR against profit governance structure activities include sensitivity analysis, and loss figures for our trading activities To manage, measure and mitigate value at risk VaR, stressed VaR sVaR, over the reporting period.
The values market risk, we have independent expected tail loss ETL and extreme shown are for the 99% one-day VaR, i. e. Market Risk Management teams in each valuetheory EVT.
Stress testing and 99% of the time, the total trading activities geography where we assume market scenario analysis are used to simulate will not be expected to lose more than risk.
Local limits have been set to keep extreme conditions to supplement these the values depicted below.
Based on this potential losses within acceptable risk core measures.
graph, we can gauge the accuracy of the tolerancelevels.
VaR numbers are monitored daily at the 3 3 A global market risk forum mandated by 95%, 99% and 100% maximum loss the various boards of directors manages confidence intervals, with limits set at the market risks in accordance with the 95% confidence interval.
ETLs are pre-approved principles and policies.
also monitored daily at the 95% and Risk limits are reviewed and set at the 99% levels.
Scenario analysis considers global market risk forum and ratified at the impact of a significant market event the ERRF in accordance with the risk on our current trading portfolios.
We appetite defined by the board.
Limits consider the impact for the 10 days after are reviewed at least annually or in the the event, not merely the instantaneous event of a significant market event e. g. shock to the markets.
Included in our 11September 2001 or at the discretion of senior management.
76 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued VaR 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 000 Year end Average High Low Year end Average High Low Using 95% VaR Equities 524 573 825 436 751 908 1 596 467 Foreign exchange 23 20 64 1 9 15 73 2 Interest rates 495 300 536 197 299 412 602 204 Consolidated 691 617 921 475 852 1 055 1 496 522 The consolidated VaR is lower than the sum of the individual VaRs.
This arises from the consolidation offset between various asset classes diversification.
Where 31 March 2015 includes Australia and 31 March 2014 excludes Australia.
Australia consolidated VAR at 31 March 2014 was A$45600.
The average VaR utilisation was lower than in 2014, largely as a result of a reduction in risk in the Structured Equity business.
Using hypothetical clean profit and loss data for backtesting resulted in one exception over the year at the 99% confidence level, i. e. where the loss was greater than the 99% one-day VaR.
This is less than expected at the 99% level and is largely due to continued subdued volatility levels over most of the past year.
3 3 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 77 1 Apr 2014 6 May 2014 10 Jun 2014 1 Jul 2014 8 Aug 2014 16 Sep 2014 14 Oct 2014 4 Nov 2014 12 Dec 2014 6 Jan 2015 2 Feb 2015 31 Mar 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued ETL 95% one-day 31 March 31 March 000 2015 2014 663 1 108 Equities Foreign exchange 34 13 Interest rates 717 481 Consolidated 874 1 202 The consolidated ETL is lower than the sum of the individual ETLs.
This arises from the correlation offset between various asset classes diversification.
Australia consolidated ETL at 31 March 2014 was A$72600.
Stress testing The table below indicates the potential losses that could arise if the portfolio is stress tested under extreme market conditions.
The method used is known as extreme value theory EVT, the reported stress scenario below calculates the 99% EVT which is a 1-in-8 year possible loss event.
These numbers do not assume normality but rather rely on fitting a distribution to the tails of the distribution.
31 March 31 March 2015 2014 000 Year end Average High Low Year end Using 99% EVT Equities 1 658 1 960 3 868 1 070 3 844 Foreign exchange 102 57 391 14 24 Interest rates 1 676 1 269 1 929 986 1 457 Consolidated 1 413 1 954 3 340 1 197 3 439 The consolidated stress test number is lower than the sum of the individual stress test numbers.
Australia consolidated stress test at 31 March 2014 was A$137700.
3 3 78 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Profit and loss histogram The histogram below illustrates the distribution of revenue during the financial year for our trading businesses.
The distribution is skewed to the profit side and the graph shows that positive trading revenue was realised on 161 days out of a total of 253 days in the trading business.
The average daily trading revenue generated for the year to 31 March 2015 was 162 486 2014: 132 949.
When setting and reviewing these limits, In June 2014 responsibility for managing Traded market risk current market conditions are taken into the market risk in the Australian portfolio mitigation account.
Bucket limits are set on time was transferred to London.
The market risk managementteam buckets, generally at three-month intervals has a reporting line that is separate out to two years and then, on a less Market risk derivatives from the trading function, thereby granular basis, out to 30 years.
We enter into various derivatives ensuring independent oversight.
The risk It is risk policy that any significant open contracts, largely on the back of customer management software runs independently position in a foreign currency is held in flow for hedging foreign exchange, from source trading systems and values all the trading book.
These positions are commodity, equity and interest rate trades separately.
The values from the two managed within approved limits and exposures and to a small extent as systems are reconciled daily.
The values monitored within VaR models.
These from the risk system are also used for profit include financial futures, options, swaps attribution, another risk management tool.
Traded market risk year and forward rate agreements.
The risks Risk limits are set according to guidelines inreview associated with derivative instruments set out in our risk appetite policy and are monitored in the same manner as for There continues to be ongoing growth are calculated on a statistical and the underlying instruments.
Risks are also in client activity across the Interest Rate 3 3 non-statistical basis.
Statistical limits measured across the product range to and Foreign Exchange Corporate Sales include VaR and ETL analyses at various take into account possible correlations.
The Structured Equity desks retail confidence intervals.
Historical VaR is product sales have remained strong, Information showing our used over 510 days of unweighted data, consistent with the performance of derivative trading portfolio over where every risk factor is exposed to underlying equity markets, and the desk the reporting period on the basis daily moves over a sample period.
With continues to develop both their product of the notional principal and the the equity markets e. g. the price history range and distribution capacity across fair value of all derivatives can be for every share and index is taken into geographies.
Equity market making has found on page 185. account as opposed to techniques where further expanded its coverage of stocks a reduced set of proxies are used.
listed in the United Kingdom, Ireland and The notional principal indicates our activity South Africa.
Market risk exposures across in the derivatives market and represents Non-statistical limits include limits on all asset classes have remained small the aggregate size of total outstanding risk exposure to individual products, throughout the year.
The fair value of a transaction tenors, notionals, liquidity, derivative financial instrument represents buckets and option sensitivities greeks.
the present value of the positive or Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 79 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued activities and the execution of the banks negative cash flows which would have The ALCOs typically comprise the group occurred had we closed out the rights and risk and finance director, the head of risk, policy, continuously assessing the risks obligations arising from that instrument in the head of corporate and institutional while taking changes in market conditions an orderly market transaction at year end.
banking activities and Private banking, into account.
In carrying out its duties the Both these amounts reflect only derivatives economists, divisional heads, the Balance Balance Sheet Risk Management teams exposure and exclude the value of the Sheet Risk Management team, the monitor historical liquidity trends, track physical financial instruments used to treasurer and business heads.
The ALCOs prospective onand off-balance sheet hedge these positions.
liquidity obligations, identify and measure formally meet on a monthly basis to review the exposures that lie within the balance internal and external liquidity warning sheet together with market conditions, signals which permit early detection of Balance sheet risk liquidity issues through daily liquidity and decide on strategies to mitigate any undesirable liquidity and interest rate risk.
reporting, and further perform scenario management The Central Treasury function within each analysis which quantifies our exposure, thus providing a comprehensive and region is mandated to holistically manage Balance sheet risk description the liquidity mismatch and non-trading consistent governance framework.
The Balance sheet risk encompasses the interest rate risk arising from our asset Balance Sheet Risk Management team financial risks relating to our asset and and liability portfolios on a day-to-day proactively identify proposed regulatory liability portfolios, comprising market basis.
The treasurers are required to developments, best risk practice, and liquidity, funding, concentration, nonexercise tight control of funding, liquidity, measures adopted in the broader market, trading interest rate and foreign exchange concentration and non-trading interest and implements changes to the banks risk risks on balance sheet, encumbrance and management and governance framework rate risk within parameters defined by leverage.
the board-approved risk appetite policy.
Non-trading interest rate risk and asset Balance sheet risk governance Scenario modelling and rigorous daily funding requirements are transferred structure and risk mitigation liquidity stress tests are designed to fromthe originating business to the measure and manage the liquidity position Under delegated authority of the board, Treasuryfunction.
such that payment obligations can be the group has established asset and The Central Treasury, by core geography, met under a wide range of normal, liability management committees ALCOs company-specific and market-driven directs pricing for all deposit products within each core geography in which it including deposit products offered to stress scenarios.
These assume the rate operates, using regional expertise and the private clients, establishes and and timing of deposit withdrawals and local market access as appropriate.
drawdowns on lending facilities are varied, maintains access to stable wholesale The ALCOs are mandated to ensure funds with the appropriate tenor and and the ability to access funding and independent supervision of liquidity risk pricing characteristics, and manages liquid to generate funds from asset portfolios and non-trading interest rate risk within a securities and collateral, thus providing isrestricted.
prudential management and a flexible The parameters used in the scenarios are The size, materiality, complexity, maturity response to volatile market conditions.
reviewed regularly, taking into account and depth of the market as well as access The Central Treasury functions are the sole changes in the business environments to stable funds are all inputs considered interface to the wholesale market for both and input from business units.
The when establishing the liquidity and noncash and derivative transactions.
objective is to analyse the possible impact trading interest rate risk appetite for each of economic event risk on cash flows, We maintain an internal funds transfer geographic region.
Specific statutory liquidity, profitability and solvency position, pricing system based on prevailing market requirements may further dictate special rates.
Our funds transfer pricing system so as to maintain sufficient liquidity, in an policies to be adopted in a region.
acute stress, to continue to operate for a charges the businesses the price of Detailed policies cover both domestic and minimum period as detailed in the boardshort-term and long-term liquidity taking foreign currency funds and set out sources approved risk appetite.
into account the behavioural duration of 3 3 and amounts of funds necessary to ensure the asset.
The costs and risks of liquidity The integrated balance sheet risk the continuation of our operations without are clearly and transparently attributed management framework is basedon undue interruption.
We aim to match-fund to business lines and are understood similar methodologies to those in currencies, other than the domestic by business line management, thereby contemplated under the Basel Committee currency, where it is practical and efficient ensuring that price of liquidity is integrated on Banking Supervisions BCBS to do so and hedge any residual currency into business level decision-making and liquidity risk measurement standards and exchange risk arising from deposit and drives the appropriate mix of sources monitoring.
It is compliant with the principles of sound The groups liquidity policy requires each The Balance Sheet Risk Management liquidity risk management and supervision geography to be self-funding so that there team, in their respective geographies as well as guidelines for the management is no reliance on intergroup lines either based within Group Risk Management, of interest rate risk in the banking book.
from or to other group entities.
independently identify, quantify and The BCBS announced that they propose monitor risks, providing daily independent to both strengthen and harmonise Geographic entities have no responsibility governance and oversight of the Treasury for contributing to group liquidity.
global liquidity standards and plan to 80 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued introduce two new liquidity standards.
Sources of interest rate risk include: The management of interest rate risk The Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR and in the banking book is centralised Repricing risk: arises from the timing Net Stable Funding Ratio NSFR are due within the Central Treasury function differences in the fixed-rate maturity and Treasury is mandated by the to be implemented by 2015 and 2018, and floating rate repricing of bank respectively.
The BCBS published the final board to actively manage the liquidity assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet mismatch and non-trading interest rate calibration of the LCR in January2013 derivative positions.
This affects the to be phased in from 2015 and the final risk arising from our asset and liability interest rate margin realised between portfolios consultation paper for the NSFR was lending income and borrowing costs, published in October 2014. when applied to our rate-sensitive The treasurer is required to exercise portfolios tight control of funding, liquidity, Each banking entity within the group concentration and non-trading interest maintains a contingency funding plan Yield curve risk: repricing mismatches rate risk within parameters defined by designed to protect depositors, creditors also expose the bank to changes in the risk appetite policy and shareholders and maintain market the slope and shape of the yield curve confidence during adverse liquidity The non-trading interest rate risk conditions and pave the way for the Basis risk: arises from imperfect appetite has been set based on the correlation in the adjustments of the group to emerge from a potential funding loss under a worst-case 200bps crisis with the best possible reputation rates earned and paid on different parallel shock as a percentage of instruments with otherwise similar and financial condition for continuing capital.
This level applies to both repricing characteristics operations.
The liquidity contingency plans earnings risk and economic value risk outline extensive early warning indicators, Embedded option risk: we are not clear lines of communication, and decisive Internal capital is allocated for nonmaterially exposed to embedded crisis response strategies.
trading interest rate risk option risk, as contract breakage penalties on fixed-rate advances There is a regular internal audit of the The non-trading interest rate risk specifically cover this risk, while balance sheet risk management function, policy dictates that long-term nonprepayment optionality is restricted the frequency of which is determined by trading interest rate risk is materially to variable rate contracts and has no the independent audit committees.
In accordance with the impact on interest rate risk policy the bank swaps its fixed The group operates an industrydeposits and loans into variable rate Endowment risk: refers to the interest recognised third party risk modelling inthe wholesale market via interest rate risk exposure arising from the system in addition to custom-built MIS rate swaps net differential between interest systems designed to identify, measure, rate insensitive assets, interest rate manage and monitor liquidity risk on both Together with the business, the insensitive liabilities and capital.
The treasurer develops strategies regarding system is reconciled to the banks general changes in the volume, composition, The above sources of interest rate risk ledger and audited by Internal Audit pricing and interest rate characteristics affect the interest rate margin realised thereby ensuring integrity of the process.
of assets and liabilities to mitigate the between lending income and borrowing interest rate risk and ensure a high costs, when applied to our rate sensitive Daily, weekly and monthly reports are degree of net interest margin stability asset and liability portfolios, which has a independently produced highlighting bank direct effect on future net interest income over an interest rate cycle.
These are activity, exposures and key measures and the economic value of equity.
presented, debated and challenged in against thresholds and limits and are the liability product and pricing forum distributed to management, ALCO, the Management and and ALCO Central Treasury function, ERRF, GRCC, measurement of non-trading BRCC and the board.
It is the responsibility of the liability interest rate risk product and pricing forum, a subStatutory reports are submitted to the Non-trading interest rate risk in the committee of ALCO, to review 3 3 relevant regulators in each jurisdiction banking book is an inherent consequence the liquidity, interest rate and within which we operate.
of conducting banking activities, and concentration characteristics of all new arises from the provision of retail and products and approve their issuance, Non-trading interest wholesale non-trading banking products ensuring that both standard and nonrate risk description and services.
The group considers the standard deposit products, particularly management of banking margin of vital Non-trading interest rate risk, otherwise those designed for the Private Banking known as interest rate risk in the banking importance, and our core non-trading customers, both match market curves interest rate risk philosophy is reflected in book, is the impact on net interest and can be hedged if necessary earnings and sensitivity to economic day-to-day practices which encompass Pricing for all deposit products value, as a result of unexpected adverse thefollowing: including deposit products offered to movements in interest rates arising The group complies with the BCBS the private clients is set centrally, in so from the execution of our core business framework for assessing banking book doing we manage access to funding strategies and the delivery of products and non-trading interest rate risk at cost-effective levels, considering services to ourcustomers.
also the stressed liquidity value of theliabilities Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 81 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Banking division to be traded with the Balance Sheet Risk Management calculated off the repricing gap.
This independently measures and analyses allows for the detection of interest rate external market.
The treasury mandate risk by concentration of repricing buckets.
allows for a tactical response to market both traditional interest rate repricing mismatch and net present value NPV Net interest income sensitivity measures opportunities which may arise during the change in accruals expected over the changing interest rate cycles.
Any resultant sensitivity to changes in interest rate risk factors, detailing the sources of specified horizon in response to a shift interest rate position is managed under the in the yield curve, while economic value market risk limits.
interest rateexposure sensitivity and stress testing to macroThe bank maintains an internal funds Investec has a relatively small endowment economic movement or changes to the risk due to paying market rates on transfer pricing system based on yield curve measures the interest risk prevailing market rates which charges all deposits, compared to banks with implicit change in net worth as a result of significant low or non-interest-bearing out the price of longand short-term a change in interest rates on the current funding to consumers of liquidity and current and cheque accounts.
Endowment values of financial assets and liabilities.
risk due to free funding, comprising mainly provides long-term stable funding for our asset creation activity Technical interest rate analysis and ordinary share capital and reserves, is managed passively, with the focus economic review of fundamental Daily management of interest rate risk developments are used to estimate a set on measuring and monitoring.
The is centralised within Treasury and is endowment risk is included within our nonof forward-looking interest rate scenarios subject to independent ALCO review incorporating movements in the yield curve trading interest rate risk measures.
level and shape, after taking global trends Treasury is the primary interface to the The Basel Financial Market Committee into account.
wholesale market has indicated that after completing and embedding the current reforms covering These combinations of measures provide We carry out technical interest senior management and the ALCOs with capital, leverage and liquidity, the capital rate analysis and economic review framework for interest rate risk on the an assessment of the financial impact of of fundamental developments by identified rate changes on potential future banking book will be revisited.
In part this geography and global trends.
is due to the increase in the quantum of net interest income and sensitivity to changes in economic value.
high-quality liquid assets HQLA banks will Non-trading interest rate risk is measured need to hold in meeting the new liquidity and analysed by utilising standard tools Our risk appetite policy requires that ratios and the potential increase in interest of traditional interest rate repricing interest rate risk arising from fixed-interest rate risk thereon.
mismatch and NPV sensitivity to changes loans is transferred from the originating in interest rate risk factors.
We detail the business to the Central Treasury function The expectation is that Basel will produce sources of interest rate exposure, whether additional consultation documents in by match-funding.
In turn, Treasury hedges repricing risk, yield curve risk, basis risk or material fixed-rate assets with a term of the next year on minimum standards embedded option risk.
This is performed for interest rate risk measurement in more than one year on a deal-by-deal for a variety of interest rate scenarios, basis with the use of variable versus thebanking book.
The market for these vanilla swaps is deep, with the result Interest rate expectations and perceived risks to the central view that such hedging is efficient.
Likewise, Treasury also hedges all fixed-rate Standard shocks to levels and shapes deposits with a term of more than one year of interest rates and yield curves to variable rate.
These derivative hedging trades are executed with the banks Historically-based yield curve changes.
Limits exist to This is consistent with the standardised ensure there is no undesired risk retained within any business or productarea.
interest rate measurement recommended by the Basel framework for assessing 3 3 Operationally, non-trading interest rate risk interest rate risk in the banking book nonis transferred within pre-defined guidelines trading interest raterisk.
from the originating business to the Central Treasury function and aggregated The aim is to protect and enhance net interest income and economic value in or netted providing Central Treasury with a holistic view of the exposure.
Treasury accordance with the board-approved risk appetite and ensure a high degree of net then implements appropriate balance sheet strategies to achieve a cost-effective interest margin stability over an interest rate cycle.
Economic value measures have source of funding and mitigates any residual undesirable risk where possible, the advantage that all future cash flows are considered and therefore can highlight risk by changing the duration of the banking groups discretionary liquid asset portfolio, beyond the earnings horizon.
The repricing gap provides a basic representation of or through derivative transactions which transfer the risk into the trading books the balance sheet, with the sensitivity of earnings to changes to interest rates within the Corporate and Institutional 82 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Interest rate sensitivity gap The table below shows our non-trading interest rate mismatch.
These exposures affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs assuming no management intervention.
Interest rate sensitivity at 31 March 2015 Three Six One Not months months year three but six but one but five Five Total million months months year years years Non-rate non-trading Cash and short-term funds banks 3 402 2 7 148 3 559 Investment trading assets and statutory liquids 920 201 16 56 581 561 2 335 Securitised assets 412 412 Advances 5 706 603 273 772 260 7 614 Non-rate assets 1 571 1 571 Assets 10 440 806 289 828 848 2 280 15 491 Deposits banks 208 208 Deposits non-banks 7 888 825 776 809 10 298 Negotiable paper 580 7 21 169 191 968 Securitised liabilities 331 331 Investment trading liabilities 3 2 5 Subordinated liabilities 4 18 575 597 Other liabilities 961 961 Liabilities 9 014 832 797 998 766 961 13 368 Intercompany loans 71 76 5 Shareholders funds 2 074 2 074 Balance sheet 1 497 26 508 170 82 831 44 Off-balance sheet 938 176 174 342 598 Repricing gap 2 435 150 682 512 516 831 44 Cumulative repricing gap 2 435 2 585 1 903 1 391 875 44 Includes Australia, which was previously reported separately.
Economic value sensitivity at 31 March 2015 For the reasons outlined above, our preference for monitoring and measuring non-trading interest rate risk is economic value sensitivity.
The table below reflects our economic value sensitivity to a 2% parallel shift in interest rates assuming no management intervention.
Thenumbers represent the change to the value of the interest rate sensitive portfolios should such a hypothetical scenario arise.
Thissensitivity effect does not have a significant direct impact on our equity.
Sensitivity to the following interest rates expressed in original currencies 3 3 million GBP USD EUR AUD ZAR Other GBP All GBP 200bps down 72.9 9.7 4.4 0.8 1.8 0.5 76.9 200bps up 65.8 10.2 0.1 0.8 1.8 0.5 73.3 Includes Australia, which was previously reported separately.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 83 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued but plausible stressed scenarios, in appropriate liquidity for all its operations to Liquidity risk be of paramount importance, and our core which the rate and timing of deposit Liquidity risk description liquidity philosophy is reflected in daywithdrawals and drawdowns on Liquidity risk is the risk that we, despite to-day practices which encompass the lending facilities are varied, and being solvent, have insufficient capacity following robust and comprehensive set the ability to access funding and to to fund increases in assets, or are unable of policies and procedures for assessing, generate funds from asset portfolios to meet our payment obligations as they measuring and controlling the liquidity risk: is restricted.
The objective is to have fall due, without incurring unacceptable sufficient liquidity, in an acute stress, Our liquidity management processes losses.
This includes repaying depositors to continue to operate for a minimum encompass principles set out by or maturing wholesale debt.
This risk is period as detailed in the boardthe regulatory authorities in each inherent in all banking operations and can approved risk appetite be impacted by a range of , namely the PRA, specific and market-wide events.
the Guernsey Financial Service Our liquidity risk parameters reflect Commission and the Swiss Financial a collection of liquidity stress Liquidity risk is further broken down into: Market Supervisory Authority assumptions which are reviewed Funding liquidity: which relates to the regularly and updated as needed.
The group complies with the BCBS risk that the bank will be unable to These stress factors go well beyond Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk meet current and or future cash flow our experience during the height of the Management and Supervision or collateral requirements in the normal recent financial crisis course of business, without adversely The group has committed itself The Balance Sheet Risk Management affecting its financial position or its to implementation of the updated team independently monitors key daily reputation BCBS guidelines for liquidity risk funding metrics and liquidity ratios to measurement, standards and Market liquidity: which relates to the assess potential risks to the liquidity monitoring to be phased in from 2015 risk that the bank may be unable to position, which further act as early trade in specific markets or that it may warning indicators to potential normal The risk appetite is clearly defined by only be able to do so with difficulty the board and each geographic entity market disruption due to market disruptions or a lack of must have its own board-approved The group centrally manages access market liquidity.
policies with respect to liquidity risk to funds in both domestic and offshore management Sources of liquidity risk include: markets through the Corporate and Each geographic entity must be selfInstitutional Banking division Unforeseen withdrawals of deposits sufficient from a funding and liquidity The maintenance of sustainable standpoint so that there is no reliance Restricted access to new funding with prudent liquidity resources takes on intergroup lines either from or to appropriate maturity and interest rate precedence over profitability other group entities characteristics Each major banking entity maintains Geographic entities have no Inability to liquidate a marketable asset an internal funds transfer pricing responsibility for contributing to group in a timely manner with minimal risk of system based on prevailing market liquidity capital loss rates.
The Treasury function charges out the price of longand short-term We maintain a liquidity buffer in Unpredicted customer non-payment of funding to internal consumers of the form of unencumbered, cash, loan obligations liquidity, which ensures that the costs, government or rated securities A sudden increased demand for loans benefits, and risks of liquidity are typically eligible for repurchase with in the absence of corresponding clearly and transparently attributed the central bank, and near cash well funding inflows of appropriate maturity.
to business lines and are understood in excess of the statutory requirements by business line management.
The as protection against unexpected Management and measurement of 3 3 funds transfer pricing methodology is disruptions in cash flows liquidity risk designed to signal the right incentive Funding is diversified with respect Maturity transformation performed to our lending business to currency, term, product, client by banks is a crucial part of financial The group maintains adequate intermediation that contributes to efficient type and counterparty to ensure a contingency funding plans designed resource allocation and credit creation.
satisfactory overall funding mix to protect depositors, creditors and Cohesive liquidity management is vital We monitor and evaluate each banking shareholders and maintain market for protecting our depositors, preserving entitys maturity ladder and funding confidence during adverse liquidity market confidence, safeguarding our gap cash flow maturity mismatch on conditions.
reputation and ensuring sustainable a liquidation, going concern and growth with established funding sources.
Our liquidity risk management reflects stress basis Through active liquidity management, we evolving best practice standards in light of seek to preserve stable, reliable and costDaily liquidity stress tests are carried the challenging environment.
Liquidity risk effective sources of funding.
Inadequate out to measure and manage the management encompasses the ongoing liquidity can bring about the untimely liquidity position such that payment management of structural, tactical day-todemise of any financial institution.
As such, obligations can be met under a day and contingent stress liquidity.
the group considers ongoing access to wide range of normal and unlikely 84 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued rating.
A reduction in these ratings could Management uses assumptions-based wholesale funding well in excess of illiquid planning and scenario modelling that assets.
We target a diversified funding have an adverse effect on the groups considers market conditions, prevailing funding costs, and access to wholesale base, avoiding undue concentrations by interest rates and projected balance sheet investor type, maturity, market source, term funding.
Credit ratings are dependent growth, to estimate future funding and on multiple factors including, business instrument and currency.
This validates our liquidity needs while taking the desired ability to generate funding from a broad model, strategy, capital adequacy levels, nature and profile of liabilities into account.
quality of earnings, risk appetite and range of sources in a variety of geographic These metrics are used to develop our locations, which enhances financial exposure, and control framework.
funding strategy and measure and manage flexibility and limits dependence on any As mentioned above, we hold a liquidity the execution thereof.
The funding plan one source so as to ensure a satisfactory buffer in the form of unencumbered details the proportion of our external assets overall funding mix to support loan growth.
readily available, high-quality liquid assets, which are funded by customer liabilities, We acknowledge the importance of our typically in the form of government or rated unsecured wholesale debt, equity and loan private client base as the principal source securities eligible for repurchase with the capital, thus maintaining an appropriate of stable and well diversified funding for central bank, and near cash well in excess mix of structural and term funding, resulting in strong balance sheet liquidity ratios.
Investecs risk assets and continue to of the statutory requirements as protection develop products to attract and service against unexpected disruptions in cash We measure liquidity risk by quantifying flows, this puts us in a favourable position their investment needs.
We continued and calculating various liquidity risk metrics to successfully raise private client to meet the Basel III liquidity requirements.
and ratios to assess potential risks to the These portfolios are managed within deposits with total deposits excluding liquidity position.
Metrics and ratios include: divestments of businesses increasing by board-approved targets, and apart from acting as a buffer under going concern 9.4% to 10.3billion at 31March 2015.
Local regulatory requirements The growth in retail deposits benefited conditions, also form an integral part of the broader liquidity generation strategy.
Contractual run-off-based actual cash from the wider macro-economic trend flows with no modelling adjustment of expanded money supply, customer Investec remains a net liquidity provider to the interbank market, placing significantly deleveraging and loan growth.
We also 'Business as usual' normal have a number of innovative retail deposit more funds with other banks than our environment where we apply rollover short-term interbank borrowings.
We initiatives within our Private Banking and reinvestment assumptions under division and these continued to experience do not rely on interbank deposits to benign market conditions fund term lending.
From 1 April 2014 to strong inflows during the financial year.
On average our fixed and notice customer 31March2015 average cash and near Stress conditions based on statistical cash balances over the period amounted deposits have amounted to approximately historical analysis, documented 84% of total deposits since April2006 to 4.4 billion.
experience and prudent judgement thereby displaying a strong stickiness The group does not rely on committed Basel standards for liquidity and willingness to reinvest by our funding lines for protection against measurement: retailcustomers.
unforeseen interruptions to cash Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR Entities within the group actively flow.
We are currently unaware of any Net Stable Funding Ratio NSFR participate in global financial markets and circumstances that could significantly our relationship is continuously enhanced detract from our ability to raise funding Quantification of a survival horizon appropriate to ourneeds.
through regular investor presentations under stress conditions.
Entities are only allowed horizon is the number of business days The liquidity contingency plans outline to have funding exposure to wholesale it takes before the banks cash position extensive early warning indicators, markets where they can demonstrate turns negative based on statistical clear lines of communication and that the market is sufficiently deep and historical analysis, documented decisive crisis response strategies.
Early liquid, and then only relative to the size experience and prudent judgement warning indicators span bank-specific and complexity of their business.
We have and systemic crises.
Rapid response 3 3 instituted various offshore syndicated loan Other key funding and balance strategies address action plans, roles and programmes to broaden and diversify term sheetratios responsibilities, composition of decisionfunding in supplementary markets and making bodies involved in liquidity crisis Monitoring and analysing market currencies, enhancing the proven capacity management, internal and external trends and the external environment.
to borrow in the money markets.
The communications including public relations, group remains committed to increasing its This ensures the smooth management sources of liquidity, avenues available core deposits and accessing domestic and of the day-to-day liquidity position within to access additional liquidity, as well as foreign capital markets when appropriate.
conservative parameters and further supplementary information requirements Decisions on the timing and tenor of validates that we are able to generate required to manage liquidity during such accessing these markets are based on sufficient liquidity to withstand short-term an event.
This plan helps to ensure that relative costs, general market conditions, liquidity stress or market disruptions in the cash flow estimates and commitments prospective views of balance sheet growth event of either a firm-specific or general can be met in the event of general market and a targeted liquidity profile.
disruption or adverse bank-specific events, The groups ability to access funding while minimising detrimental long-term We maintain a funding structure with stable at cost-effective levels is influenced by implications for the business.
private client deposits and long-term maintaining or improving the entitys credit Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 85 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued quality liquid assets, typically in the form of The group uses secured transactions to Asset encumbrance government or rated securities eligible for manage short-term cash and collateral An asset is defined as encumbered if it repurchase with the central banks in the needs.
Details of assets pledged through has been pledged as collateral against respective jurisdictions.
repurchase activity and collateral pledges an existing liability and, as a result, is no are reported by line item of the balance longer available to the group to secure The group utilises securitisation in order sheet on which they are reflected on funding, satisfy collateral needs or be to raise external term funding as part of page208.
Related liabilities are also sold to reduce the funding requirement.
An asset is therefore categorised notes issued are also retained by the as unencumbered if it has not been group and which are available to provide On page 183 we disclose further details pledged against an existing liability.
Risk a pool of collateral eligible to support of assets that have been received as Management monitors and manages total central bank liquidity facilities including collateral under reverse repurchase balance sheet encumbrance via a boardthe Bank of England Funding for Lending agreements and securities borrowing approved risk appetite framework.
During the year Investec Bank transactions where the assets are allowed group holds a liquidity buffer in the form of plc issued 280million of notes through to be resold or pledged.
unencumbered, readily available, highsecuritisations in the UK.
The below asset encumbrance disclosures are based on the requirements set out in the Capital Requirements Regulation and the related Guidelines issued by the European Banking Authority in June 2014.
Information on importance of encumbrance Encumbered assets have been identified in accordance with the reporting requirements under European Capital Requirements Regulation CRR.
As at 31 March 2015, 2 039million of the group's assets were encumbered.
An asset is defined as encumbered if it has been pledged as collateral against an existing liability and asa result is no longer freely available to the group.
Assets Carrying Carrying amount of Fair value of amount of Fair value of encumbered encumbered unencumbered unencumbered million assets assets assets assets 010 Assets of the reporting institution 2 039 15 884 030 Equity instruments 114 114 587 587 040 Debt securities 776 776 1 887 1 887 120 Other assets 454 1 272 Collateral received Fair value of collateral Fair value of encumbered received or own debt collateral received or own securities issued available million debt securities issued for encumbrance 130 Collateral received by the reporting institution 383 1 279 150 Equity instruments 5 83 160 Debt securities 378 1 020 230 Other collateral received 107 3 3 240 Own debt securities issued other than own covered bonds or ABSs Encumbered assets collateral received and associated liabilities Assets, collateral received and own debt Matching liabilities, securities issued other contingent liabilities than covered bonds million or securities lent and ABSs encumbered 010 Carrying amount of selected financial liabilities 1 962 2 059 The above tables only include a subset of underlying product categories and therefore when aggregated may not agree back to the total line items indicated.
The numerical row references included in the above tables reference the asset encumbrance reporting instructions specified in AnnexureXVII of the Commission Implementing Regulation and can also be found in the European Banking Authority encumbrance disclosure guidelines which were published in June 2014.
86 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Cash and near cash trend million 6 000 5 000 4 000 3 000 2 000 Near cash other monetisable assets 1 000 Central Bank cash placements and guaranteed liquidity 0 Apr 14 May 14 Jun 14 Jul 14 Aug 14 Sep 14 Oct 14 Nov 14 Dec 14 Jan 15 Feb 15 Mar 15 Cash Increase in cash balances due to the sale of Kensington.
Bank and non-bank depositor An analysis of cash and concentration by type near cash at 31 March 2015 at 31 March 2015 5 039 million 11 103 million Cash 23.0% Banks 7.3% Central Bank cash placements and Individuals 57.3% guaranteed liquidity 72.6% Nonfinancial corporates 26.0% Near cash other monetisable assets 4.4% Other nancials 2.0% Small business 7.4% Includes Australia, which was previously reported separately.
3 3 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 87 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Liquidity mismatch Wehave: The liquidity The table that follows shows our set the time horizon to on contractual liquidity mismatch.
position of the bank demand to monetise our statutory liquid assets for which liquidity is The table will not agree directly to the remained sound guaranteed by the central bank: balances disclosed in the balance sheet with total cash and since the table incorporates cash flows on set the time horizon to one near cash balances a contractual, undiscounted basis based month to monetise our cash and on the earliest date on which the group near cash portfolio of availableamounting to can be required to pay.
for-sale discretionary treasury 5.0 billion assets, where there are deep The liquidity position of the group secondary markets for this elective remained sound with total cash and asset class: and near cash balances amounting to reported the contractual profile 5.0billion.
We continued to enjoy by way of a note to the tables.
strong inflows of customer deposits while With respect to the behavioural liquidity maintaining good access to wholesale mismatch: markets despite the underlying market environment.
Ourliquidity and funding Behavioural liquidity mismatch tends profile reflects our strategy, risk appetite to display a fairly high probability, low .
Many retail deposits, which are included within The table reflects that loans and advances customer accounts, are repayable to customers are largely financed by stable on demand or at short notice on a funding sources.
In practice, these With respect to the contractual liquidity instruments form a stable base for mismatch: the groups operations and liquidity needs because of the broad base of No assumptions are made except as customers.
To this end, behavioural mentioned below, and we record all profiling is applied to liabilities with assets and liabilities with the underlying an indeterminable maturity, as the contractual maturity as determined by contractual repayments of many the cash flow profile for each deal customer accounts are on demand or at short notice but expected cash As an integral part of the broader flows vary significantly from contractual liquidity generation strategy, we maturity.
An internal analysis model maintain a liquidity buffer in the form of is used, based on statistical research unencumbered cash, government or of the historical series of products.
rated securities and near cash against This is used to identify significant both expected and unexpected cash additional sources of structural liquidity flows in the form of core deposits that The actual contractual profile of this exhibit stable behaviour.
Inaddition, asset class is of little consequence, reinvestment behaviour, with profile and as practically Investec would meet attrition based on history, is applied any unexpected net cash outflows by to term deposits in the normal course repoing or selling these securities.
Six Up One Three months One to one to three to six to one to five Five million Demand month months months year years years Total Behavioural liquidity gap 3 776 536 44 447 158 1 843 1 064 Cumulative 3 776 3 240 3 196 2 749 2 907 1 064 Includes Australia, which was previously reported separately.
3 3 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 89 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued internally according to the emerging Basel Balance sheet risk year Regulatory considerations definitions since February 2010.
Investec inreview balance sheet risk already exceeds minimum requirements The bank has maintained a strong surplus The banking industry, continued to of these standards.
We continue to liquidity position throughout the year.
experience elevated levels of prospective reshape our liquidity and funding profile During the first half of the year, the liquidity changes to laws and regulations from where necessary as we approach the surplus was bolstered by raising funds to national and supranational regulators.
fund strong asset growth, including the Regulators propose to both strengthen transfer of residual assets from Australia In June 2013, the European Union and harmonise global liquidity standards as part of thedisposal of Investec Bank published legislation to implement within and to ensure a strong financial sector and Australia Limited.
the EU BaselIII, the international regulatory global economy.
We believe that we are framework for banks via CRD IV.
This The liquidity position in the second half well positioned for the proposed regulatory requires the reporting of the LCR and the of the year was then further enhanced by reform as we have maintained strong NSFR to the EBA from March 2014.
The the disposal of the Kensington and Start capital, funding and liquidity positions.
LCR will be introduced on 1 October2015 Irish mortgage businesses.
A strategy with a minimum requirement of 60% The BCBS published the final calibration to manage down surplus liabilities was increasing to 100% by January 2018 of the LCR in January 2013.
The main initiated following the strategic sales.
as stated in the regulation document.
changes to the LCR were to introduce However, individual member states can This strategy has continued through to the level 2b qualifying assets and recalibrate require a higher standard and the PRA year end and into 2015 16, with the aim run-off factors for non-financial commercial has indicated that it will set the initial of reducing both cash and liquidity back depositors and committed facilities.
The requirement at 80% from October 2015. to normalised levels through both asset LCR ratio will be phased in from 2015 growth and further liability management, to2019.
Investec Bank plc currently comfortably while maintaining our overall conservative exceeds its regulatory liquidity The BCBS published the final consultation approach to liquidity risk management.
requirements and will progress to document on the NSFR in October 2014 implement the forthcoming liquidity Funding rates continued to be driven with a number of changes.
The main proposals included in the CRD IV BaselIII down throughout the year, while the changes to the NSFR were to introduce package.
Investec Bank plc is currently weighted average contractual maturity of a bucket to recognise financial deposits shadowing and comfortably exceeds the the liability book has been lengthening, to greater than six months in sources of draft LCR and NSFR liquidity ratios.
We give closer matching of asset and liability available stable funding, recalibrate run-off will continue to monitor these rules until maturities.
factors for performing loans less than finalimplementation.
one year, and revise treatment of both The bank has continued to diversify its derivative and repo transactions.
The funding mix including utilisation of the NSFR ratio will be introduced in 2018.
Bank of Englands Funding for Lending Scheme and has pre-positioned several The strategic impact of Basel III mortgage portfolios together with retained internationally is significant, and has securitisation investments.
the potential to change the business model of non-compliant banks while Cash and near cash balances at theregulatory developments could result 31March2015 amounted to 5.0billion inadditionalcosts.
2014: 4.3billion, enhanced by the strategic business sales.
Total customer The group has committed itself to deposits excluding divestments increased implementation of the BCBS guidelines by 9.4% to 10.3 billion at 31March2015.
for liquidity risk measurement standards We continue to exceed Basel liquidity and the enhanced regulatory framework requirements for the LCR andNSFR to be established.
proactively reporting on these ratios 90 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Reliance Reporting Risk management continued embedded at all levels of the organisation and Governance Operational risk is continually reviewed to ensure appropriate The governance structure adopted to and effective management of operational risk.
Operational risk definition manage operational risk is enforced in terms of a levels of defence model During the year under review, significant Operational risk is defined as any and supports the principle of combined instance where there is potential or enhancements of all the components of the assurance in the following manner: operational risk management framework actual impact to the group resulting from inadequate or failed internal have been made and the focus on advancing practices will continue.
processes, people, systems, or from external events.
The impacts can be Board and board The process of advancing practices and financial as well as non-financial such committees understanding regulatory requirements is as customer detriment, reputational or Review and appr oval of the supported by regular interaction with the overall risk management regulatory consequences.
regulator and with industry counterparts strategy, including determination of the risk Operational risk exists as part of the atformal industry forums.
appetite and tolerance for thebank normal activities of a bank.
The group An independent group operational risk Monitor and r eview the aims to manage operational risk operational risk exposures management function, mandated by the by adopting sound operational risk and metrics.
board risk and capital committee, ensures management practices which are fit that operational risk policies and procedures for purpose.
These include, inter alia, are developed and applied consistently and minimising internal losses in a cost effectively throughout the bank.
Business unit effective manner in accordance with the External assurance management, supported by operational risk operational risk appetite and tolerance.
and supervision managers ORMs who operate at a business External assessment unit level, are responsible for embedding and Operational risk of operational implementing operational risk practices and riskenvironment management framework policies.
All personnel are adequately skilled Onsite reviews by the SARB, FCA, PRA and The bank continues to operate under at both a business unit and a grouplevel.
the Standardised Approach TSA to operational risk which forms the basis of the operational risk management framework.
The framework is Internal assurance Independent review of framework and its effectiveness The diagram below depicts how the components of operational risk are integrated.
Audit findings integrated into operational risk management process.
Governance and risk appetite Policies and procedures Group operational risk management Challenge and r eview Identification Measurement business unit operational risk practices and data Maintain operational risk framework and policy Report to boar d and board committees Risk and control Scenarios 3 3 on operational risk assessment exposures, events and Capital calculation emerging issues.
Internal risk events External risk events Key risk indicators Business unit management Identify, own and mitigate operational risk Technology Establish and maintain an appropriate operational risk and control environment Maintain an embedded operational risk management capability.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 91 Monitoring Assurance Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Risk appetite and tolerance Enhancement of The Operational Risk Tolerance policy defines the amount of operational risk exposure, or potential adverse impact from a risk event, that the bank is willing to accept or retain.
all the components The objective of the policy is to encourage action and mitigation of risk exposures and of the operational provides management guidance to respond appropriately.
Additionally, the policy defines risk management capturing and reporting thresholds for risk events and guidance to respond to key risk indicators appropriately.
framework have been made and the Operational risk practices focus on advancing The following practices are used for the management of operational risk as illustrated in the diagram below: practices will continue Risk and Internal risk External Key risk Scenarios Reporting Technology control events risk events indicators and capital and assessment calculation monitoring Qualitative Incidents Access to data Metrics are Extreme, A reporting An operational assessments resulting from from an external used to monitor yet plausible process is risk system is in that identify key failed systems, data consortium risk exposures scenarios are in place to place to support operational risks processes, against identified evaluated for ensure that risk operational risk Events are and controls people or thresholds financial and exposures are practices and analysed to external events non-financial identified and processes Identifies inform potential Assists impacts that key risks ineffective A causal control failures inpredictive are appropriately controls and analysis is within the bank capability Used to escalated and improves performed measure managed The output of decision-making exposure Enables this analysis through an arising from key Monitoring business to is used as understanding risks, which is compliance with identify trends in input into the of the considered in operational risk risk events and operational risk operational determining policies and address control assessment riskprofile internal practices ensure weaknesses process operational the framework risk capital is embedded requirements in day-today business activities 3 3 92 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Key operational risk considerations The following key risks may result in loss of value should they materialise.
Definition of risk Approach to mitigation Priority for 2015 16 Financial crime Proactive strategy which includes business-wide and Financial crime awareness training Risk associated with money laundering, terrorist financing, customer risk assessments internally including the use of e-learning bribery, fraud, and tax Development of policies which comply with regulations platforms evasion.
and industry guidance Development of a money laundering, Monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of financial counter terrorist financing, bribery and crime controls and reporting to governance bodies e. g. sanctions compliance risk appetite audit committee statement Training all staff with enhanced bespoke training delivered Enhance money laundering transaction to staff in higher risk functions monitoring capabilities and bespoke Frequent delivery of management information focused on training for staff in key risk functions.
key risk indicators Understanding and proactively managing the emerging threat of cybercrime across theindustry.
Information security Risks associated with the Identification of threats and associated risks to our Ensure appropriate controls are in place confidentiality, availability or information assets including legal and regulatory to manage cyber threats, including the integrity of our information requirements sharing of information with peers, law assets, irrespective Development and monitoring of policies, processes enforcement and industry bodies oflocation or media.
andtechnical controls designed to mitigate the risks to Raising awareness with internal ourinformation and external stakeholders of the Evaluation of risks introduced by our information threats, controls and policies supplychain relating to information security Maintenance and testing of our security incident and andtheir responsibility in protecting breach response processes.
Process failure Risk associated with Weaknesses in controls are identified through the causal Enhancement of processes to identify inadequate internal analysis process following the occurrence of risk events risks related to new products and processes, including human Thematic reviews are performed to monitor the projects.
errors and control failures effectiveness of controls across businessunits within the business.
This Effective management of change remains a focus area includes process origination, forthe year ahead.
Regulatory and compliance Risk associated with Group Compliance and Group Legal Risk assist in the Alignment of regulatory and compliance identification, implementation management of regulatory and compliance risk approach to reflect new regulatory and monitoring of compliance Identification and adherence to legal and regulatory landscapes particularly change of with regulations.
requirements regulatory structures in the UK Review practices and policies as regulatory requirements Managing business impact and change.
implementation challenges as a result of significant volumes of statutory and regulatory changes and developments Ensuring existing monitoring remains focused appropriately as areas of conduct and regulatory risk develop.
3 3 Technology Establishment and maintenance of an IT risk assessment Enhancing resilience of our technical Risk associated with the reliance on technology to framework to consistently and effectively assess IT infrastructure and our process to IT exposures across the business failures or service interruptions support business processes and client services.
Monitoring risk exposures related to adoption of new Identifying, monitoring and reducing Thisrelates to the operations, technologies risks in our digital channel, following the usage, ownership and Identification and remediation of vulnerabilities identified introduction of mobile applications and responsibility of IT systems inIT systems, applications, and processes our increased online presence.
Establishing appropriate IT recovery capabilities to safeguard against business disruptions resulting from systems failures and IT service outages.
Insurance The group maintains adequate insurance to cover key insurable risks.
The insurance process and requirements are managed by the group insurance risk manager.
Regular interaction between Group Operational Risk Management and Group Insurance Risk Management ensures that there is an exchange of information in order to enhance the mitigation of operational risks.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 93 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued difficulties.
The plan is reviewed and Business continuity approved by the board on an annual basis.
We have management various policies The recovery plan for Investec plc: The group maintains a global business and practices Integrates with existing contingency continuity management capability which to mitigate planning incorporates an appropriate level of reputational resilience into the banks operations to Analyses the potential for severe stress minimise the risk of severe operational in the group risk, including disruptions occurring.
strong values Identifies roles and responsibilities In the event of a major disruption, an that are regularly Identifies early warning indicator and incident management framework will be used to manage the disruption.
trigger levels and proactively Continuity will be achieved through a reinforced Analyses how the group could be flexible and adaptable response, which affected by the stresses under various includes relocating impacted business to scenarios the designated recovery site.
Dedicated resources ensure all governance processes Includes potential recovery actions are in place with business and technology available to the board and management teams responsible for activating and to respond to the situation, including managing the recovery process.
immediate, intermediate and strategic actions The group conducts regular exercises and testing of recovery procedures Assesses how the group might recover to ensure that its recovery capability as a result of these actions to avoid remainsappropriate.
Recovery and resolution Reputational risk planning Reputational risk is damage to our reputation, name or brand.
Reputational In the EU, the Bank Recovery and risk arises as a result of other risks Resolution Directive BRRD was manifesting and not being mitigated.
adopted in June 2014 by the European Commission.
The BRRD came into effect We have various policies and practices from 1January 2015, with the option to to mitigate reputational risk, including delay implementation of bail-in provisions strong values that are regularly and until 1January 2016.
Regardless of this, proactively reinforced.
We also subscribe the UK introduced bail-in powers from to sound corporate governance practices, 1January2015.
The UK transposition which require that activities, processes of the BRRD builds on the resolution and decisions are based on carefully framework already in place in the UK.
In January 2015, the PRA published a We are aware of the impact of practices policy statement containing updated that may result in a breakdown of trust requirements for recovery and resolution and confidence in the organisation.
3 3 planning, which revises PRA rules that The groups policies and practices are have been in force since 1 January 2014. regularly reinforced through transparent In addition, the EBA has produced a communication, accurate reporting, number of regulatory technical standards, continuous group culture and values some of which are yet to be finalised, and assessment, internal audit and regulatory will further inform the BRRD requirements.
compliance review, and risk management practices.
In line with PRA and EU requirements, Investec plc maintains a resolution pack and a recovery plan.
Pension risk The purpose of the recovery plans Pension risk arises from obligations arising is to document how the board and from defined benefit pension schemes, management will recover from extreme where Investec plc is required to fund any financial stress to avoid liquidity and capital deficit in the schemes.
94 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued There are two defined benefit schemes The legal risk policy is implemented By conduct risk we mean the risk that within Investec plc and both are closed to detriment is caused to the bank, its through: new business.
Pension risk arises if the customers, its counterparties or the Identification and ongoing review of net present value of future cash outflows is market, as a result of inappropriate areas where legal risk is found to be greater than the current value of the asset execution of business activities.
present pool set aside to cover those payments.
The focus on conduct risk is intended Allocation of responsibility for the to go beyond the current compliance Primary sources at risk include: development of procedures for monitoring frameworks in order to move management and mitigation of A mismatch in the duration of the away from the culture of tick box theserisks assets relative to the liabilities compliance.
As a result, firms are expected to look across their business models and Installation of appropriate segregation Market-driven asset price volatility strategies and assess how to balance the of duties, so that legal documentation pursuit of profits with good outcomes for Increased life expectancy of individuals is reviewed and executed with the clients and proper standards of markets leading to increased liabilities.
appropriate level of independence conduct.
All firms will be expected to take from the persons involved in proposing Investec plc monitors the position of the a holistic approach to assessing their key or promoting the transaction funds closely and regularly assesses conduct risks and to ensure that these are potential adverse movements in the Ongoing examination of the interbeing managed in accordance with FCAs schemes in close conjunction with strategic objectives of protecting clients, relationship between legal risk and external, independent advisers.
other areas of risk management, so as ensuring markets function effectively and promoting competition.
to ensure that there are no gaps in Further information is provided the risk management process on pages 197 to 200.
The groups work on conduct risk, particularly in the UK, includes assessing Establishing minimum standards for mitigating and controlling each risk.
key risks across the business, identifying key controls and ensuring that the board Legal risk management This is the nature and extent of work to be undertaken by our internal and is receiving the right information to enable Legal risk is the risk of loss resulting from it to challenge effectively the management external legal resources any of our rights not being fully enforceable of risks by the business.
This work is set Establishing procedures to monitor or from our obligations not being properly to continue for the coming year and will compliance, taking into account the performed.
This includes our rights and aim to build on the existing controls such required minimum standards as the compliance monitoring, Treating obligations under contracts entered into with counterparties.
Such risk is especially Customers Fairly TCF and operational Establishing legal risk forums bringing riskframeworks.
applicable where the counterparty defaults together the various legal risk and the relevant documentation may managers to ensure we keep abreast not give rise to the rights and remedies of developments and changes in the Capital management anticipated when the transaction was nature and extent of our activities, and entered into.
to benchmark our processes against andallocation best practice.
Our objective is to identify, manage, Capital measurement monitor and mitigate legal risks throughout Overall responsibility for this policy rests the group.
We seek to actively mitigate with the board.
The board delegates Investec Limited and its subsidiaries these risks by identifying them, setting responsibility for implementation of the and Investec plc and its subsidiaries are minimum standards for their management policy to the global head of legal risk.
managed independently and have their and allocating clear responsibility for such The global head assigns responsibility for respective capital bases ring-fenced: management to legal risk managers, as controlling these risks to the managers however, the governance of capital 3 3 well as ensuring compliance through of appropriate departments and focused management is consistent across the units throughout the group.
The DLC structure requires proactive monitoring.
the two groups to independently manage A legal risk forum is constituted in each The scope of our activities is continuously eachgroups balance sheet and hence significant legal entity within the group.
reviewed and includes the following areas: capital is managed on this basis.
This Each forum meets at least half-yearly and approach is overseen by the BRCC viathe Relationship contracts more frequently where business needs Investec DLC capital committee which dictate, and is chaired by the global head Legislation governance is a board sub-committee with ultimate of legal risk or an appointed deputy.
responsibility for the capital adequacy of Litigation both Investec Limited and Investec plc.
Corporate events The legal and regulatory treatment Conduct risk Incident or crisis management of capital is independent of existing As part of the regulatory restructure, the shareholder arrangements that are in Ongoing quality control.
new Financial Conduct Authority FCA place to ensure that shareholders have in the UK has outlined its approach to common economic and voting interests as managing firms conduct.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 95 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued if Investec plc and Investec Limited were a The mark-to-market method is used to information about risks, as well as their single, unifiedenterprise.
calculate the counterparty credit risk risk measurement and management.
The market risk capital review proposed greater use of templates Investec Limited and Investec plc are requirement is calculated using standard to achieve consistency.
The final standard separately regulated entities.
The group has obtained permission was published in January 2015 and will provides a brief outline of the regulatory from its regulator to apply an internal risk take effect from year end 2016 Investecs environment relevant to Investec plcs management model when netting certain first disclosure will be for year end capital management framework.
Operational risk Subsidiaries of Investec plc may be Regulatory capital In October 2014, the BCBS proposed subject to additional regulations, as revisions to the standardised approach Current regulatory framework implemented by local regulators in other for measuring operational risk capital.
Investec plc is authorised by the PRA and relevant jurisdictions.
Where capital is Once finalised, the revised standardised is regulated by the FCA and the PRA on a a relevant consideration, management approach will replace the  basis.
Since1January2014 within each regulated entity pays close based approaches, which comprise the Investec plc has been calculating capital attention to prevailing local regulatory basis indicator approach, the standardised resources and requirements at a group rules as determined by their respective approach and the alternative standardised level using the Basel III framework, as regulators.
No implementation timeframe implemented in the European Union purposes, it is the prevailing rules applied has been set.
through the Capital Requirements to the consolidated Investec plc group that Directive IV CRDIV.
The group continues Market risk are monitored closely.
With the support of to phase-in the remaining CRD IV rule the groups capital management function, The BCBS continues to consult on the changes, notably the grandfathering local management of each regulated entity fundamental review of the trading book, provisions applicable to non-qualifying ensures that capital remains prudently and in December 2014 issued a third capital instruments reducing by 10% above minimum requirements at all times.
consultation paper, addressing outstanding per annum until fully derecognised in issues.
The proposals make further 2022 and the increase in the minimum Regulatory considerations refinements to the new proposed market regulatory capital ratios.
With effect from The UK regulatory environment has risk framework.
A further Quantitative 1 January2015, the common equity tier 1 continued to evolve during 2015, with Impact Study QIS will be carried out in capital requirement increased from 4% to a vast number of new consultations, early 2015 to inform the final calibration 4.5%, while the tier 1 capital requirement regulatory and implementing technical of the new framework.
The final standard increased from 5.5% to 6%.
The group standards and other proposals being will be published once all comments and continues to hold capital in excess of the published or adopted, notably by the PRA, the results of the QIS exercise have been new minimum requirements.
the BCBS and the European Banking assessed by the committee.
No formal Investec plc have also implemented Authority EBA.
implementation date has been published the PRA Pillar 2A rule change and by the BCBS to date.
International has from 1 January 2015 met at least 56% of its individual capital guidance, Securitisation risk Counterparty credit risk as determined by the internal capital In December 2014 the BCBS published The BCBS continues to review the adequacy assessment and supervisory the revised securitisation framework, which capital framework and its balance of review process, with common equity tier 1 aims to address a number of shortcomings simplicity, comparability and risk sensitivity.
During April2015 the PRA issued in the Basel II securitisation framework InMarch 2014 the BCBS published a final the Investec plc group with a revised Pillar and to strengthen the capital standards standardised approach for measuring 2A requirement of 2.5% of risk-weighted forsecuritisations held in the banking counterparty credit risk exposures.
The assets effective from 30 April 2015, of book.
The framework will take effect in new standardised approach replaces which 1.4% has to be met from common January 2018.
The revised framework both the Current Exposure Method equity tier 1 capital.
has been through multiple consultation and the Standardised Method and will 3 3 processes and two separate QIS exercises The Investec plc group has changed apply to OTC derivatives, exchangeto ensure the standard is appropriately significantly during the financial year traded derivatives and long settlement calibrated andrefined.
due to three strategic disposals, namely transactions.
In August 2014 the BCBS the sale of Investec Bank Australia published a technical paper explaining Credit risk Limiteds professional finance business, the different modelling assumptions In addition to the above reforms, the asset finance and leasing businesses used in developing this new approach.
BCBS released a consultation paper in late and deposit book and the sales of The new standardised approach for December 2014 recommending changes Start Mortgage Holdings Limited and counterparty credit risk will take effect to the current standardised approach.
The committee seeks to substantially on these disposals can be found on improve the standardised approach for Pillar III disclosures page19.
credit risk in a number of ways, including In June 2014, the BCBS consulted Investec plc uses the standardised reducing the reliance on external credit on revisions to the Pillar 3 disclosure approach to calculate its credit and ratings, increasing risk sensitivity, reducing requirements, to promote greater counterparty credit risk, securitisation national discretions, and more importantly consistency in the way banks disclose and operational risk capital requirements.
strengthening the link between the 96 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued standardised approach and the internal to issue final rules in July 2015, ahead of leverage ratio buffer of 35% of the ratings-based approach so as to enhance implementation from 1January2016.
relevant risk-weighted countercyclical comparability of capital requirements capital buffer rates applicable from 2018.
The committee will conduct Theminimum leverage ratio requirement a comprehensive QIS as part of the In April 2014 the PRA published its and countercyclical leverage ratio buffer BaselIII monitoring exercise collecting final rules and supervisory statement will also apply to all PRA regulated banks, data as of end December 2014.
This to implement the CRD IV provisions on building societies and investment firms information will help inform the overall capital buffers in the UK.
The CRD IV from 2018, subject to a review of progress calibration of the new standard before the creates a combined capital buffer that of the international standards in 2017. final standard is published.
The committee all firms will be expected to meet in Europe will consider this proposal along with all addition to their Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 capital other reforms currently under discussion requirements.
The combined buffer will Leverage ratio to ensure sufficient time is given for include the capital conservation buffer, In October 2014 the European implementation, including providing countercyclical capital buffer, buffer for Commission adopted the leverage ratio appropriate grandfathering provisions global systemically important institutions delegated Act, establishing a common where appropriate.
G-SIIs and the systemic risk buffer if definition of the leverage ratio for EU banks applicable and must be met with common The revised standards published by which will be the basis for publishing the equity tier 1 capital.
These buffers will be the BCBS will need to be adopted by leverage ratio from the beginning of 2015 phased-in from 1 January 2016.
Firms that the European Commission before they onwards.
Itdoes not introduce a binding do not meet their combined buffer shall become binding on UK firms.
A decision on whether or face restrictions on their distributions.
not to introduce a binding leverage ratio The CRD IV rules also require HM Treasury will only be made in 2016.
The Act aims to UK to designate authorities responsible for align the leverage ratio currently included Pillar 2 framework setting certain CRD IV buffers in the UK.
in the Capital Requirements Regulation From 1 May 2014 the Bank of England CRR with the internationally agreed With effect from 1 January 2015 the PRA is the designated authority for the BCBS standard.
requires firms to meet at least 56% of countercyclical capital buffer CCB with their individual capital guidance under Capital targets policy decisions delegated to the Financial the Pillar2A capital framework with Policy Committee FPC.
At the FPCs Over recent years, capital adequacy common equity tier 1 capital.
Previously policy meeting held in March 2015, the standards for banks have been raised as the individual capital guidance, which committee chose to maintain the CCB part of attempts to increase the stability is determined by the internal capital and resilience of the global banking sector.
buffer rate for UK exposures at 0%.
adequacy assessment and supervisory Investec plc has always held capital in review process, could be met with The PRA will be responsible for identifying excess of regulatory requirements and the totalcapital.
G-SIIs and setting their buffers and will group continues to remain well capitalised.
also be responsible for identifying other In January 2015, the PRA released a Accordingly, we are targeting a minimum systemically important institutions from consultation paper proposing changes common equity tier 1 capital ratio of above 1January 2016. to their Pillar 2 framework, including 10% by March 2016, a tier 1 capital ratio introducing the PRAs methodologies of above 11% by March 2016 current Leverage ratio for setting Pillar 2 capital.
In addition the 10.5% target and a total capital adequacy In July 2014 the FPC launched a PRAproposed to introduce the PRA buffer, ratio target in the range of 14% to 17%.
consultation on the design of the leverage These targets are continuously assessed which will replace the current Capital ratio framework for the UK.
In November Planning Buffer known as Pillar2B.
2013 the Chancellor of the Exchequer ThePRA buffer will be met from common The DLC capital committee is responsible asked the FPC to conduct a review into equity tier 1 capital, and will transition in for ensuring that the impact of any the role for the leverage ratio within the from January 2016 at 25%, increasing by regulatory change is analysed, understood, capital framework for UK banks and to 25% in each consecutive year until fully prepared and planned for.
To allow the 3 3 consider the case for the FPC having phased-in by January 2019.
All firms will committee to carry out this function, the power to implement a leverage ratio be subject to a PRA buffer assessment the groups Regulatory and Capital requirement ahead of the international and the PRA willset a PRA buffer only if Management teams closely monitor timetable, or to set a higher baseline it judges that theCRD IV buffers capital regulatory developments and regularly ratio in some circumstances for UK conservation buffer and systemic risk present to the committee on the latest banks.
The FPC issued its final report buffer, if applicable are inadequate for developments and proposals.
As part of in October 2014 introducing a leverage a particular firm given its vulnerability any assessment the committee is provided ratio framework ahead of the international in a stress scenario, or where the PRA with analysis setting out the groups capital timetable for G-SIIs and other major has identified risk management and adequacy position taking into account the domestic UK banks and building societies.
governance failings, which the CRDIV most up to date interpretation of the rule The final recommendations included a buffers are not intended to address.
In addition, regular sessions with minimum leverage ratio requirement of Toaddress weak risk management and the board are held to ensure that members 3% to be implemented immediately, a governance, the PRA proposes applying a are kept up to date with the most salient supplementary leverage ratio buffer of 35% scalar ranging from 10% to 40% of a firms changes to ensure the impact on the of corresponding risk-weighted systemic group and its subsidiaries is monitored common equity tier 1 Pillar1 plus Pillar 2A buffer rates, and a countercyclical andunderstood.
The PRA are expected Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 97 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued level capital sufficiency and on internal Management of leverage capital for ensuring that returns are Internal capital In the UK, the leverage ratio is a non-riskappropriate for the level of risk taken at an requirements based measure, with public disclosure individual transaction or business unit level.
applicable from 1 January 2015, applying are quantified by The determination of target capital is the rules set out in the leverage ratio analysis of the driven by our risk profile, strategy and risk delegated Act.
The leverage ratio is appetite, taking into account regulatory subject to a monitoring period from potential impact and market factors applicable to the 1January 2014 to 30 June 2016, at which of key risks to a group.
At the most fundamental level, we point the EBA will report to the European seek to balance our capital consumption Commission suggesting adequate degree consistent between prudent capitalisation in the calibration and appropriate adjustments to with our risk context of the groups risk profile and the capital andtotal exposure measure.
appetite As with the governance of capital Our internal capital framework is designed management, the DLC capital committee to manage and achieve this balance.
The is responsible for ensuring that the internal capital framework is based on impact of any regulatory changes on the the groups risk identification, review and leverage ratio is calculated, analysed and assessment processes and is used to understood at all reporting levels.
provide a risk-based approach to capital allocation, performance and structuring of Leverage ratio target our balance sheet.
The objectives of the Investec is currently targeting a leverage internal capital framework are to quantify ratio above 6%, but will continue to the minimum capital required to: reassess this target for appropriateness Maintain sufficient capital to satisfy the pending the outcome of the EBAs report boards risk appetite across all risks in 2016. faced by the group Capital management Provide protection to depositors Philosophy and approach against losses arising from risks Both the Investec Limited and Investec inherent in the business plc groups operate an approach to Provide sufficient capital surplus to capital management that utilises both ensure that the group is able to retain regulatory capital, as appropriate to that its going-concern basis under relatively jurisdiction, and internal capital, which severe operating conditions is an internal risk-based assessment of capital requirements.
Capital management Inform the setting of minimum primarily relates to management of the regulatory capital through the interaction of both, with the emphasis on supervisory review process SREP.
regulatory capital for managing portfolio The simplified integration of risk and capital management Risk modelling Pricing and Risk Risk Internal and performance identification assessment capital quantification measurement 3 3 Managed by each Managed by Risk reporting business unit group Capital Capital and business as and group Risk Management Group management usual risk departments with oversight by strategy and planning management with oversight by DLC capital ERRF BRCC GRCC committee BRCC Scenario testing 98 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Ongoing risk management Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued The DLC capital committee seeks to Equity and investment risk in the Capital planning and stress optimise the balance sheet such that banking book scenario testing capital held is in excess of internal capital.
Balance sheet liquidity and non-trading A group capital plan is prepared and Internal capital performs a critical role in: interest rate risk maintained to facilitate discussion of Investment decision-making and pricing the impact of business strategy and Operational, conduct and that is commensurate with the risk market conditions on capital adequacy.
reputationalrisk being taken This plan is designed to assess capital adequacy under a range of economic Legal risk considered within Allocating capital according to the and internal conditions over the medium operational risk for capital purposes.
greatest expected marginal risk-based term three years, with the impact on return, and tracking performance on Each of these risk categories may consist earnings, asset growth, risk appetite and this basis of a number of specific risks, each of liquidity considered.
The plan provides the which are analysed in detail and managed board via the BRCC with an input into Determining transactional risk-based by ERRF, GRCC and BRCC.
strategy and the setting of risk appetite by returns on capital considering business risks and potential Risk modelling and Rewarding performance, taking into vulnerabilities, capital usage and funding account the relative levels of risk quantification internal capital requirements given constraints where adopted by forming a basis for the these exist.
Internal capital requirements are quantified determination of economic value added by analysis of the potential impact of key at a transactional level, and hence Capital planning is performed regularly, risks to a degree consistent with our risk with regulatory capital being the key the basis for discretionary variable appetite.
Internal capital requirements are remuneration driver of decision-making.
The goal of supported by the board-approved risk capital planning is to provide insight into assessment process described above.
Comparing risk-based performance potential sources of vulnerability of capital Quantification of all risks is based on across business areas.
adequacy by way of market, economic analysis of internal data, management or internal events.
As such, we stress The framework has been approved by expertise and judgement, and external the capital plans based on conditions the board and is managed by the DLC benchmarking.
most likely to place us under duress.
The capital committee, which is responsible for conditions themselves are agreed by the The following risks are included within the oversight of the management of capital on DLC capital committee after research and internal capital framework and quantified a regulatory and an internal basis.
consultation with relevant internal experts.
for capital allocation purposes: In order to achieve these objectives, the Such plans are used by management internal capital framework describes the to formulate balance sheet strategy and Credit and counterparty risk, including: following approach to the integration of agree management actions, trigger points Underlying counterparty risk risk and capital management.
and influence the determination of our risk Concentration risk appetite.
Securitisation risk Risk assessment and reporting The output of capital planning allows Market risk We review the business continuously to senior management to make decisions maintain a close understanding of our Equity and investment risk held in the to ensure that the group continues universe of risks, which are analysed banking book to hold sufficient capital to meet its through the risk management governance regulatory and internal capital targets.
framework under stewardship of BRCC.
Balance sheet risk, including: On certain occasions, especially under Key risks are reviewed and debated by Liquidity stressed scenarios, management may senior management on a continuous basis.
Banking book interest rate risk plan to undertake a number of actions.
Assessment of the materiality of risks is Assessment of the relative merits of directly linked to the boards stated risk Strategic and reputational risks 3 3 undertaking various actions is then appetite and approved risk management Pension risk considered using an internal view of policies covering all key risks.
relative returns across portfolios which are Operational risk, which is considered as Key identified risks are monitored by Group themselves based on internal assessments an umbrella term and covers a range Risk Management and by Internal Audit of risk and capital.
of independent risks including, but not to ensure that each risk is managed to an Our capital plans are designed to allow acceptable level.
Detailed performance limited to, fraud, litigation, business continuity, outsourcing and out of policy senior management and the board to and control metrics of these risks are review: reported to each ERRF and BRCC meeting trading.
The specific risks covered are including, where appropriate, the results assessed dynamically through constant Changes to capital demand caused of scenario testing.
Key risk types that are review of the underlying business by implementation of agreed strategic considered fall within the following: environment.
objectives, including the creation or Credit and counterparty risk acquisition of new businesses, or as a result of the manifestation of one Market risk or more of the risks to which we are potentially susceptible Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 99 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued The impact on profitability of current or repayment of liabilities among the Accounting and regulatory and future strategies parent undertaking and its subsidiary treatment of group undertakings.
subsidiaries Required changes to the capital structure The table which follows reconciles the Investec plc and Investec Limited are the Investec plc groups financial accounting two listed holding companies in terms of The impact of implementing a proposed balance sheet to the regulatory scope the DLC structure.
Investec Bank plc is the dividend strategy balance sheet.
main banking subsidiary of Investec plc.
The impact of alternate market or The alphabetic references included in the Basis of consolidation operating conditions on any of the reconciliation provide a mapping of the above.
The regulatory basis of consolidation balance sheet items to elements included differs from the basis of consolidation in the capital structure table, set out on At a minimum level, each capital plan used for financial reporting purposes.
pages 105 and 106. assesses the impact on our capital The financial accounting position of the adequacy over expected case, upturn Investec plc group is reported under IFRS The regulatory capital requirements are and downturn scenarios.
On the basis driven by the regulatory balance sheet and and is described on page 144 ofthe of the results of this analysis, the DLC annual financial statements.
not the financial accounting balance sheet.
capital committee and the BRCC are presented with the potential variability in A detailed list of principal subsidiaries The regulatory consolidation includes capital adequacy and are responsible, all financial sector subsidiaries, the and associates included in the financial in consultation with the board, for accounting scope of consolidation are majority of which are wholly owned by the consideration of the appropriate response.
Investments in disclosed on pages 214 to 217. financial sector associates that are equity Pricing and performance Regulatory capital accounted in the financial accounting measurement and requirements consolidation, whereas their exposures are proportionally consolidated in the The use of internal capital as an allocation For regulatory capital purposes, our regulatory consolidation.
Subsidiaries tool means that all transactions are regulatory capital is divided into three main and associates engaged in non-financial considered in the context of their categories, namely common equity tier 1, activities are excluded from the regulatory contribution to return on risk-adjusted tier 1 and tier 2 capital as follows: consolidation.
In addition SPEs are not capital.
This ensures that expected returns consolidated for regulatory purposes, are sufficient after taking recognition of Common equity tier 1 capital comprises where significant credit risk has been shareholders equity and related eligible the inherent risk generated for a given transferred to third parties.
This approach allows us to non-controlling interests after giving the firm continues to hold in these effect to deductions for disallowed embed risk and capital discipline at the securitisation SPEs will either be risklevel of deal initiation.
Using expectations items e. g. goodwill and intangible weighted and or deducted from common assets and other adjustments of risk-based returns as the basis for equity tier 1capital.
pricing and deal acceptance ensures that Other tier 1 capital includes qualifying risk management retains a key role in The principal SPEs excluded from the capital instruments that are capable ensuring that the portfolio is appropriately regulatory scope of consolidation are of being fully and permanently written managed for that risk.
2 plc down or converted into common equity and Tamarin Securities Limited.
In addition to pricing, returns on internal tier 1 capital at the point of non-viability of the firm and other additional tier 1 capital are monitored and relative Investec Bank plc, a regulated subsidiary performance is assessed on this basis.
instruments, which no longer qualify as of Investec plc, applies the provisions additional tier 1 capital and are subject Assessment of performance in this way laid down in article 9 of the CRR solois a fundamental consideration used in to grandfathering provisions consolidation waiver and reports to setting strategy and risk appetite as well the PRA on a solo-consolidation basis.
3 3 Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying asrewarding performance.
Investec Bank plc has two solosubordinated debt and related eligible consolidation subsidiaries, namely Investec non-controlling interests and other These processes have been embedded Finance plc and Investec Investments across the business with the process tier2 instruments, which no longer UK Limited.
qualify as tier 2 capital and are subject designed to ensure that risk and capital management form the basis for key to grandfathering provisions.
There are no current or foreseen material decisions at both a group and at a practical or legal impediments to the transactional level.
Responsibility for prompt transfer of capital resources oversight for each of these processes ultimately falls to the BRCC.
100 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Capital disclosures The composition of our regulatory capital under a CRD IV basis is provided in the table below.
Reconciliation of the financial accounting balance sheet to the regulatory scope of consolidation Deconsolidation of Accounting Regulatory non-financial Consolidation At 31 March 2015 balance other of banking balance million Ref sheet entities associates sheet Cash and balances at central banks 2 181 2 181 Loans and advances to banks 1 054 33 6 1 027 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral onsecurities borrowed 1 448 1 448 Sovereign debt securities 1 213 1 213 Bank debt securities 226 226 Other debt securities 222 1 221 Derivative financial instruments 775 3 772 Securities arising from trading activities 670 670 Investment portfolio 401 5 406 Loans and advances to customers 7 061 13 7 074 Other loans and advances 555 116 439 Other securitised assets 412 180 232 Capital invested in insurance and other entities 6 6 Interests in associated undertakings 22 17 5 Deferred taxation assets 74 74 of which: relates to losses carried forward a 8 8 Other assets 1 336 24 12 1 324 of which: pension asset b 36 36 Property and equipment 63 23 40 Investment property 66 66 Goodwill c 356 6 362 Intangible assets c 137 137 Total assets 18 272 369 20 17 923 The references identify balance sheet components which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital.
3 3 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 101 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Reconciliation of the financial accounting balance sheet to the regulatory scope of consolidation continued Deconsolidation of Accounting Regulatory non-financial Consolidation balance balance At 31 March 2015 other of banking million Ref sheet entities associates sheet Deposits by banks 222 73 7 156 Derivative financial instruments 953 953 Other trading liabilities 252 252 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 597 597 Customer accounts deposits 10 306 64 10 370 Debt securities in issue 1 352 160 1 192 Liabilities arising on securitisation of other assets 331 134 197 Current taxation liabilities 105 105 Deferred taxation liabilities 45 11 34 of which: in respect of acquired intangibles c 26 26 in respect of pension assets b 7 7 Other liabilities 1 438 10 13 1 461 Subordinated liabilities 597 597 of which: term subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital d 597 597 Total liabilities 16 198 304 20 15 914 Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests e 1 914 65 1 849 of which: perpetual preference shares included in additional tier 1 capital f 130 130 perpetual preference shares included in tier 2 capital d 20 20 Non-controlling interests g 160 160 of which: preferred securities included in additional tier 1 capital h 144 144 Total equity 2 074 65 2 009 Total liabilities and equity 18 272 369 20 17 923 The references identify balance sheet components which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital.
3 3 102 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Reconciliation of the financial accounting balance sheet to the regulatory scope of consolidation continued Deconsolidation of Accounting Regulatory non-financial Consolidation balance balance At 31 March 2014 other of banking million Ref sheet entities associates sheet Cash and balances at central banks 1 743 1 743 Loans and advances to banks 1 307 25 6 1 288 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral onsecurities borrowed 1 215 1 215 Sovereign debt securities 1 232 1 232 Bank debt securities 371 371 Other debt securities 229 11 218 Derivative financial instruments 920 149 771 Securities arising from trading activities 587 587 Investment portfolio 343 12 355 Loans and advances to customers 7 775 14 7 789 Own originated loans and advances to customers securitised 448 448 Other loans and advances 1 673 57 1 616 Other securitised assets 2 798 2 166 632 Capital invested in insurance and other entities - 5 5 Interests in associated undertakings 21 17 4 Deferred taxation assets 105 105 of which: relates to losses carried forward a 38 38 Other assets 1 199 195 17 1 411 of which: pension asset b 25 25 Property and equipment 66 17 49 Investment property 62 62 Goodwill c 427 7 434 Intangible assets c 153 153 Total assets 22 674 2 213 27 20 488 The references identify balance sheet components which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital.
Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 21.
3 3 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 103 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Reconciliation of the financial accounting balance sheet to the regulatory scope of consolidation continued Deconsolidation of Accounting Regulatory non-financial Consolidation balance balance At 31 March 2014 other of banking million Ref sheet entities associates sheet Deposits by banks 1 433 217 10 1 226 Derivative financial instruments 669 669 Other trading liabilities 392 392 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 615 615 Customer accounts deposits 10 956 98 11 054 Debt securities in issue 1 369 259 1 110 Liabilities arising on securitisation of own originated loans andadvances 449 30 479 Liabilities arising on securitisation of other assets 2 374 1 745 629 Current taxation liabilities 107 19 88 Deferred taxation liabilities 69 69 of which: in respect of acquired intangibles c 29 29 in respect of pension assets b 5 5 Other liabilities 1 231 2 17 1 246 Subordinated liabilities 741 741 of which: term subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital d 741 741 Total liabilities 20 405 2 114 27 18 318 Shareholders' equity excluding non-controlling interests e 2 092 99 1 993 of which: perpetual preference shares included in additional tier 1 capital f 130 130 perpetual preference shares included in tier 2 capital d 20 20 Non-controlling interests g 177 177 of which: preferred securities included in additional tier 1 capital h 165 165 Total equity 2 269 99 2 170 Total liabilities and equity 22 674 2 213 27 20 488 3 3 The references identify balance sheet components which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital.
104 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Capital management and allocation Capital structure and capital adequacy Summary information on the terms and conditions of the main features of all capital instruments is provided on pages 201 to 206.
The transitional own funds disclosure template and capital instruments main features template, prescribed by the Capital Requirements Regulation, will be available on the Investec group website.
31 March 2015 31 March 2014 Investec Investec million Ref Plc IBP plc IBP Tier 1 capital Shareholders equity 1 642 1 734 1 782 1 854 Shareholders equity per balance sheet e 1 914 1 800 2 092 1 915 Foreseeable dividends 57 15 61 32 Perpetual preference share capital and sharepremium f: d 150 150 Deconsolidation of special purpose entities e 65 51 99 29 Non-controlling interests 9 4 3 Non-controlling interests per balance sheet g 160 1 177 3 Non-controlling interests transferred to tier 1 h 144 165 Non-controlling interests in deconsolidated entities 1 Surplus non-controlling interest disallowed in common equity tier 1 7 8 Regulatory adjustments to the accounting basis 44 15 32 11 Defined benefit pension fund adjustment b 29 20 Unrealised gains on available-for-sale equities 7 7 Additional value adjustments 15 15 12 11 Cash flow hedging reserve 7 7 Deductions 485 394 608 480 Goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred taxation c 473 382 558 431 Deferred taxation assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences a 8 8 38 38 Securitisation positions 4 4 4 3 Connected funding of a capital nature 8 8 Common equity tier 1 capital 1 122 1 325 1 146 1 360 Additional tier 1 capital 205 234 Additional tier 1 instruments f: h 274 295 Phase out of non-qualifying additional tier1instruments 69 61 Tier 1 capital 1 327 1 325 1 380 1 360 3 3 Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
The information for Investec plc includes the information for IBP.
The 31 March 2014 capital information has been restated to reflect the implementation of IFRIC 21.
The capital adequacy disclosures for Investec plc and IBP include the deduction of foreseeable dividends when calculating common equity tier 1 capital as now required under the CRR and EBA technical standards.
These disclosures are different to the capital adequacy disclosures included in Investecs 2015 integrated annual report, which follow our normal basis of presentation and do not include the deduction for foreseeable dividends when calculating common equity tier 1 capital.
Investec plc and IBPs common equity tier 1 ratios will be 50bps 31 March 2014: 40bps and 10bps 31 March 2014: 30bps higher on thisbasis.
The references refer to those in the reconciliation of the regulatory scope balance sheet set out on pages 101 to 104.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 105 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Capital management and allocation continued Capital structure and capital adequacy continued 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 million Ref Investec plc IBP Investec plc IBP Tier 2 capital 556 590 662 637 Tier 2 instruments d 610 590 686 642 Phase out of non-qualifying tier 2 instruments 3 Non-qualifying surplus capital attributable to non-controlling interests 54 24 2 Total regulatory capital 1 883 1 915 2 042 1 997 Risk-weighted assets 11 608 10 967 13 711 12 668 Capital ratios Common equity tier 1 ratio 9.7% 12.1% 8.4% 10.7% Tier 1 ratio 11.4% 12.1% 10.1% 10.7% Total capital ratio 16.2% 17.5% 14.9% 15.8% Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
Theinformation for Investec plc includes the information for IBP.
3 3 106 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Capital management and allocation continued Capital requirements 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 million Investec plc IBP Investec plc IBP Capital requirements 929 878 1097 1 014 Credit risk prescribed standardised exposure classes 649 634 830 787 Corporates 287 285 298 294 Secured on real estate property 133 133 161 154 Retail 36 36 102 102 Institutions 36 33 41 38 Other exposure classes 146 136 218 189 Securitisation exposures 11 11 10 10 Equity risk standardised approach 11 11 21 21 Listed equities 4 4 5 5 Unlisted equities 7 7 16 16 Counterparty credit risk 35 35 22 22 Credit valuation adjustment risk 3 4 16 16 Market risk 74 71 55 52 Interest rate 26 26 21 21 Foreign exchange 20 17 8 5 Securities underwriting 1 1 Equities 23 23 22 22 Options 5 5 3 3 Operational risk standardised approach 157 123 153 116 Risk-weighted assets banking and trading 11 608 10 967 13711 12 668 Credit risk prescribed standardised exposure classes 8 111 7 923 10374 9844 Corporates 3 588 3 561 3 728 3 683 Secured on real estate property 1 657 1 657 2007 1923 Retail 453 450 1281 1278 Institutions 450 410 506 473 Other exposure classes 1 822 1 704 2 729 2 364 Securitisation exposures 141 141 123 123 Equity risk standardised approach 140 140 267 267 Listed equities 52 52 62 62 Unlisted equities 88 88 205 205 Counterparty credit risk 436 436 271 271 Credit valuation adjustment risk 42 47 194 194 3 3 Market risk 922 888 689 648 Interest rate 328 328 262 262 Foreign exchange 246 212 98 57 Securities underwriting 13 13 Equities 291 291 276 276 Options 57 57 40 40 Operational risk standardised approach 1 957 1 533 1916 1444 Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 107 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued disposals, partially offset by strong loan Market risk RWAs Investec plc growth across various business lines in our Movement in risk-weighted assets We apply the standardised approach for core loan book.
Market risk Total risk-weighted assets RWAs have RWAs increased by 233 million, primarily decreased by 15% over the period, Counterparty credit risk RWAs and due to an increase in foreign exchange predominantly within credit risk RWAs.
Credit Valuation Risk risk, driven by the removal of an Australian Counterparty credit risk RWAs increased Credit risk RWAs Dollarhedge.
by 165 million mainly due to increased For Investec plc consolidated reporting, we trading volumes, while CVA RWAs Operational risk RWAs have adopted the standardised approach decreased by 152 million driven by the Operational risk RWAs are calculated using for calculating credit risk RWAs.
Credit application of CVA exemptions, post an the standardised approach and increased risk RWAs, which include equity risk, internal review.
The increase is due to decreased by 2.4 billion.
The decrease a higher three-year average operating is primarily attributable to the strategic income.
A summary of capital adequacy and leverage ratios 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 Investec Investec plc IBP plc IBP Common equity tier 1 as reported 9.7% 12.1% 8.4% 10.7% Common equity tier 1 fully loaded 9.7% 12.1% 8.4% 10.8% Tier 1 as reported 11.4% 12.1% 10.1% 10.7% Total capital adequacy ratio as reported 16.2% 17.5% 14.9% 15.8% Leverage ratio permanent capital 7.8% 7.5% 7.4% 7.2% Leverage ratio current 7.4% 7.5% 7.1% 7.2% Leverage ratio fully loaded 6.3% 7.5% 5.9% 7.3% Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
The capital adequacy disclosures for Investec plc and IBP include the deduction of foreseeable dividends when calculating common equity tier 1 capital as now required under CRR and EBA technical standards.
These disclosures are different to the capital adequacy disclosures included in Investecs 2015 integrated annual report, which follow our normal basis of presentation and do not includethe deduction for foreseeable dividends when calculating common equity tier 1 capital.
Investec plc and IBPs common equity tier 1 ratios will be 50bps 31March 2014: 40bps and 10bps 31 March 2014: 30bps higher on this basis.
Based on the groups understanding of current regulations fully loaded is based on Basel III capital requirements as fully phased in by2022.
The leverage ratios are calculated on an end-quarter basis.
3 3 108 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Reconciliation of the leverage ratio The 31 March 2015 leverage ratio is calculated using the CRR definition of leverage which was adopted by the European Commission via a delegated Act in October 2014 and came into force from 1 January 2015.
The leverage ratio has been disclosed using both a transitional and fully loaded capital measure.
The 2014 comparative leverage ratios, included in the summary of capital adequacy and leverage ratios table were calculated following the original definition of leverage as per the CRR adopted in June 2013.
The leverage ratio at both reporting levels has improved with the increase mainly attributable to a decrease in the exposure measure due to the strategic disposals.
A change in the credit conversion factors applied to off-balance sheet exposures, as required by the delegated Act, has also contributed to the decrease in the exposure measure.
These improvements in the exposure measure are marginally offset by the delegated Act requirement to include securities financing transactions at their accounting value plus a further add-on for counterparty credit risk.
At 31 March 2015 million Investec plc IBP Total assets per accounting balance sheet 18 272 17 943 Deconsolidation of non-financial other entities 369 372 Consolidation of banking associates 20 12 Total assets per regulatory balance sheet 17 923 17 583 Reversal of accounting values: Derivatives 772 803 Regulatory adjustments: 792 964 Market risk Derivatives market value 264 289 Derivative add-on amounts per the mark-to-market method 449 452 Securities financing transaction add-on for counterparty credit risk 324 324 Off-balance sheet items 315 301 Add-on for written credit derivatives 7 7 Exclusion of items already deducted from the capital measure 567 409 Exposure measure 17 943 17 744 Tier 1 capital 1 327 1 325 Leverage ratio current 7.4% 7.5% Tier 1 capital fully loaded 1 122 1 325 Leverage ratio fully loaded 6.3% 7.5% Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
Based on the groups understanding of current regulations fully loaded is based on capital requirements as fully phased in by 2022.
3 3 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 109 Risk management and corporate governance Risk management continued Movement in total regulatory capital The table below analyses the movement in common equity tier 1, additional tier 1 and tier 2 capital during the year.
Total regulatory capital flow statement 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 million Investec plc IBP Investec plc IBP Restated opening common equity tier 1 capital 1 146 1 360 1210 1402 New capital issues 25 16 20 Dividends 121 172 70 Loss profit after taxation 31 110 93 52 Treasury shares 55 58 Gain on transfer of non-controlling interests 1 73 Share-based payment adjustments 35 4 37 Movement in other comprehensive income 46 53 51 42 Goodwill and intangible assets deduction net of related taxationliability 85 49 40 41 Deferred taxation that relies on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences 30 30 38 38 Deconsolidation of special purpose entities 34 22 31 34 Foreseeable dividend 4 17 61 32 Other, including regulatory adjustments and transitional arrangements 17 2 14 9 Closing common equity tier 1 capital 1 122 1 325 1 146 1 360 Opening additional tier 1 capital 234 295 Other, including regulatory adjustments and transitional arrangements 29 61 Closing additional tier 1 capital 205 234 Closing tier 1 capital 1 327 1 325 1 380 1360 Opening tier 2 capital 662 637 834 681 Redeemed capital 13 13 Amortisation adjustments 27 15 Sale of subsidiaries 63 39 Collective impairment allowances 120 20 Other, including regulatory adjustments and transitional arrangements 30 5 25 9 Closing tier 2 capital 556 590 662 637 Opening other deductions from total capital 57 54 Connected funding of a capital nature 6 6 Investments that are not material holdings or qualifying holdings 51 48 Closing other deductions from total capital 3 3 Closing total regulatory capital 1 883 1 915 2 042 1 997 Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
110 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015
