Risk management Managing risk: our framework for balancing risk and reward A robust and effective risk management framework is essential for the Group to achieve its strategic objectives and to ensure that the directors are able to manage the business in a sustainable manner, which protects its employees, partners, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Ongoing consideration of, and regular updates to, the policies intended to mitigate risk enable the effective balancing of risk and reward.
Overall responsibility for the risk framework and and mitigants in place to reduce each risk.
Those risks definition of risk appetite rests with the Board, who that are considered to pose the greatest threat to through regular review of risks ensure that risk the Group and score the highest pre-mitigation are exposure is matched with an ability to achieve the identified as principal risks.
The operations of the Groups strategic objectives.
Risk identification, using Group, and the implementation of its objectives and a structured risk framework, is carried out primarily strategy, are subject to a number of principal risks by the management team with non-executive review and uncertainties.
Were more than one of the risks to being primarily carried out by the audit committee.
occur together, the overall impact on the Group may All of the Groups employees have an important role be compounded.
to play in the identification and management of risk.
The key controls over the Groups identified principal In this way, a comparison of bottom up and top down risks are reviewed by management, the audit risks is used to ensure emerging risks are captured committee and the Board at least twice a year.
The and managed appropriately by the Group.
design and ongoing effectiveness of these controls Ranking of the Groups risks is carried out are reviewed using an assurance map.
However, by combining the economic, operational or the Groups risk management programme can only environmental impact of risks and the likelihood that provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that they may occur, both before and after the controls principal risks are managed to an acceptable level.
Ongoing process to evaluate and update the risk The framework for management framework, to consider the level of risk appetite for each risk and the operating Develop and evaluating, mitigating communicate effectiveness of each level of defence.
and monitoring risk is: strategy and objectives Risk assessments Review and Risk Financial and non-financial risks are monitored regularly by monitor Identify and are recorded in the Groups risk the Audit Committee and success of Framework assess risks register.
Risks are analysed for actions overseen by the Board.
Mitigate risk Required actions are agreed and assigned, and deadlines are set.
34 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:01 PM Strategic Report Risk management Levels of defence applied by the Group: Strategic Board 1 Audit Committee 2 Remuneration Committee 3 Nomination Committee 4 Operational Executive management 5 Investment Committee 6 Legal Compliance 7 External Independent assurance 8 1.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups 5.
Executive management identify, assess and risk management and internal controls, sets the manage the risks identified.
tone from the top, sets the strategic objectives, 6.
The Investment Committee reviews the merits defines the risk appetite and monitors the risk of each investment proposal and ensures that exposure.
The whistleblowing policy encourages investment decisions are aligned with the Groups disclosures to be addressed to the Board Chairman strategic objectives and within the acceptable risk and or any other Non-executive Director.
The Audit Committee oversees the effectiveness of 7.
The compliance function ensures that all regulated the internal control function and risk management activity undertaken is within the regulated systems within the Group.
The Remuneration Committee ensures the 8.
Independent assurance is provided by the appropriate incentivisation of Executive Directors independent auditors and various external and staff.
The Nomination Committee ensures that the and advisers support management and the Board Board has the appropriate balance of skills and through ad hoc consulting activities, as required.
knowledge required to assess and address risk, and that appropriate succession plans are in place.
com 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:01 PM Risk management continued Summary of principal risks A summary of the key risks affecting the Group and the steps taken to manage these is set out below.
Further discussion of the Groups approach to principal risks and uncertainties are given on pages 34 to 41 and on pages 59 to 60 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Risk and description Impact Mitigation Risk trend Developments during the year Strategy KPI The success of those portfolio The Group has significant balance sheet The Group raised 178.8m net of expenses Change in 1 It may be difficult for the companies which require and managed funds capital to deploy in through the issue of new equity capital in the fair value of Group and its early-stage significant funding in the future attractive portfolio opportunities.
year, secured a 30m, 8-year debt facility from equity and debt companies to attract capital.
may be influenced by the the European Investment Bank and increased investments.
The Group operates a corporate finance markets appetite for investment capital deployment into the portfolio.
The Groups operations are reliant on Total equity function which carries out fundraising in early stage companies, which capital markets, particularly those in net assets.
The Group hosted investor relations roadshows in may not be sufficient.
As the Groups operations, the UK and US during the year including its first Profit loss The Group maintains close relationships Failure of companies within the and the operations of the majority of US technology summit.
attributable to with a wide variety of co-investors that Groups portfolio may make it its portfolio companies, are based in equity holders.
focus on companies at differing stages of more difficult for the Group or the UK, the financial and operational development.
its spin-out companies to raise performance of the Group and The Group frequently forecasts cash additional capital.
particularly the ability of its portfolio requirements of the portfolio and ensures companies to attract development all capital allocations are compliant capital is influenced by the general with budgetary limits, treasury policy economic climate and trading guidelines and transaction authorisation conditions in the UK.
Portfolio company failure directly The Groups staff have significant The Group increased its rate of capital Change in 2 The returns and cash impacts the Groups value and experience in sourcing, developing deployment into its portfolio in the year and fair value of proceeds from the Groups profitability.
and growing early-stage technology portfolio companies raised approximately 300m equity and debt early-stage companies can be companies to significant value, including of capital.
At any time, a large proportion very uncertain.
use of the Groups systematic opportunity of the Groups portfolio value Purchase of The Group maintained board representation on evaluation and business building may be accounted for by one, or The following risks are typically equity and debt more than 70% of companies by number.
methodologies within delegated board very few, companies, which could associated with early-stage companies: investments.
Some increasing volatility and reduced liquidity authorities.
exacerbate the impact of any Proceeds from was observed in the capital markets during late may not be able to secure later impairment or failure of one or Members of the Groups senior team the sale of equity 2015 and 2016. rounds of funding: more of these companies.
Oxford often serve as non-executive directors investments.
Nanopore is an example of such or advisers to portfolio companies to may not be able to source or retain a portfolio company that has the help identify and remedy critical issues appropriately skilled staff: potential to materially impact the promptly.
competing technologies may enter Groups results.
Support on operational, legal and the market: Cash realisations from the company secretarial matters is offered technology can be materially Groups portfolio through trade to minimise failures due to common unproven and may fail: sales and IPOs could vary administrative factors.
significantly from year to year.
IP may be infringed, copied or The Group has spin-out company stolen: holdings across different sectors managed by experienced sectormay be more susceptible to cyberspecialist teams to reduce the impact of a crime: and single company failure or sector demise.
other administrative, taxation or The Group maintains significant cash compliance issues may lead to balances and seeks to employ a capital company failure.
efficient process deploying low levels of initial capital to enable identification and mitigation of potential failures at the earliest possible stage.
Key: Increase Decrease Create Develop Deliver No change 36 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:01 PM Strategic Report Risk management Risk and description Impact Mitigation Risk trend Developments during the year Strategy KPI The success of those portfolio The Group has significant balance sheet The Group raised 178.8m net of expenses Change in 1 It may be difficult for the companies which require and managed funds capital to deploy in through the issue of new equity capital in the fair value of Group and its early-stage significant funding in the future attractive portfolio opportunities.
com 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:01 PM Risk management continued Risk and description Impact Mitigation Risk trend Developments during the year Strategy KPI Termination or non-renewal of Dedicated new business & partnerships New business and Partnerships team established Number of 3 Universities or other research arrangements through failure to to service existing partnerships and source new new portfolio team to service existing partnerships and intensive institutions may perform obligations may result in opportunities.
terminate their partnerships source new opportunities.
the loss of exclusive rights.
Completed investments with all three US Ivy or other collaborative The Group continues to consider The loss of exclusive rights may League partner universities.
limit the Groups ability to secure and, where appropriate, enter into Oxford Chemistry contract expired in November The Groups business, results of attractive IP opportunities to new and innovative partnerships and 2015 but broadened exposure to Oxford through operations and prospects are at least commercialise.
the acquisition of a strategic shareholding in collaborations with research institutions.
partially dependent on competitive This could potentially have Oxford Sciences Innovation plc.
advantage gained from access to The Group has been able to source a material adverse effect Group re-branding, website and communications leading scientific research through on the Groups long-term opportunities through non-exclusive updated during the year to increase awareness of partnerships and other collaborative business, results of operations, the Group.
arrangements with research intensive performance and prospects.
institutions and commercial partners Members of the Groups senior team work With several new entrants to such as Oxford Sciences Innovation closely with partner institutions to ensure our market, this may reduce our plc, Technikos LLP and Cambridge opportunities to create new spinthat each commercial relationship is Innovation Capital.
The Group may out businesses.
be unable to recreate these elements of its competitive advantage in other The Groups track record in IP geographies in which it may seek to commercialisation may make the operate such as the US.
Group a partner of choice for other institutions, acting as a barrier to entry to competitors.
Loss of key executives and Senior team succession plans are in place The Group continues to dedicate resources to Total equity 4 The Group may lose key employees of the Group or an and updated regularly.
personnel or fail to attract inability to attract, retain and The Groups corporate culture and values Staff attrition remained low and the Group Number of and integrate new personnel.
integrate appropriately skilled are well-articulated and consistently recruited seven new members to the team.
new portfolio The industry in which the Group and experienced staff could have promoted.
Approximately 40% of staff have been with the companies.
operates is a specialised area and an adverse effect on the Groups Company for at least five years.
The Group carries out regular market the Group requires highly qualified competitive advantage, business, comparisons for staff and executive Deepening of sector expertise and increased and experienced employees.
There financial condition, operational remuneration and seeks to offer a autonomy through divisional approach.
is a risk that the Groups employees results and or future prospects.
balanced incentive package comprising Optimal organisation planning and structuring could be approached and solicited by a mix of salary, benefits, performanceongoing, including the recruitment of a full-time competitors or other technology-based based long-term incentives and benefits HR director during the year.
companies and organisations, or could such as flexible working and salary otherwise choose to leave the Group.
Given the relatively small size of the The Group encourages staff development Group, its operations are reliant on a and inclusion through coaching and small number of key individuals.
Scaling mentoring and carries out regular the team, particularly into foreign objective setting and appraisal.
jurisdictions such as the US, presents an additional potential risk.
The UKs recession has had Management team receives regular Macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions Change in 5 Macroeconomic conditions and may continue to have capital market and economic updates remain uncertain in the UK, Europe and the rest fair value of may negatively impact the an adverse effect on trading from the Groups capital markets team of the world.
equity and debt Groups ability to achieve its conditions and availability of and its brokers.
Poor post year-end performance in the UK strategic objectives.
capital in the UK, particularly for and numerous other stock exchanges have Six-monthly budget and capital allocation Total equity Adverse macroeconomic conditions smaller businesses.
This has caused a flight to process and monitoring against agreed net assets.
could reduce the opportunity to deploy The success of those portfolio historically safe assets.
Primary drivers for this are budget.
Profit loss capital into opportunities or may limit companies which require a slowdown in Chinese economic growth and low Regular oversight of upcoming capital attributable to the ability of such portfolio companies significant external funding may commodity prices.
requirements of portfolio from both the equity holders.
to raise third party funds, develop be influenced by the markets Political stability in the UK has increased since Group and 3rd parties.
profitable businesses or achieve appetite for investment in early the 2015 elections.
However, this is expected increases in value or exits.
stage companies, which may not to become more uncertain as we near the 2016 be sufficient.
Political uncertainty, including impacts referendum over Britains EU membership.
from Brexit or similar scenarios, could A significant proportion of the have a number of potential impacts Groups portfolio value is held in including changes to the labour market companies quoted on the AIM available to the Group for recruitment market and decreases in values or regulatory environment in which the to this market could result in a Group operates.
material fair value impact to the portfolio as a whole.
38 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:01 PM Strategic Report Risk management Key: Increase Decrease Create Develop Deliver No change Risk and description Impact Mitigation Risk trend Developments during the year Strategy KPI Termination or non-renewal of Dedicated new business & partnerships New business and Partnerships team established Number of 3 Universities or other research arrangements through failure to to service existing partnerships and source new new portfolio team to service existing partnerships and intensive institutions may perform obligations may result in opportunities.
com 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:01 PM Risk management continued Risk and description Impact Mitigation Risk trend Developments during the year Strategy KPI Changes could result in University partners are incentivised to Ongoing focus on regulatory compliance Total equity 6 There may be changes to, universities and researchers no protect their IP for exploitation as the including third party reviews.
impacts from, or failure to longer being able to own, exploit partnership agreements share returns UK and US Governments have emphasised their comply with, legislation, or protect intellectual property between universities, academic founders ongoing support for scientific research with UK government policy and on attractive terms.
Changes to tax legislation The Group utilises professional advisers Specialist therapeutics advisory panel continually There may be unforeseen changes in, or the nature of the Groups as appropriate to support its monitoring consulted.
or impacts from, government policy, activities, in particular in relation of, and response to changes in, tax, Increased focus on cyber security including regulation or legislation including to the substantial shareholder insurance or other legislation.
further development of the Groups controls using taxation legislation.
This could include exemption, may adversely The Group has internal policies and the UK Governments ten steps approach and changes to funding levels or to the affect the Groups tax position procedures to ensure its compliance with review of the Cyber Essentials regime and how terms upon which public monies are and accordingly its value and applicable FCA regulations and these are this applies to the Group.
made available to universities and operations.
research institutions and the ownership Regulatory changes or MBS utilises an experienced specialist of any resulting intellectual property.
breaches could ultimately lead advisory panel covering all aspects of to withdrawal of regulatory clinical trial design and delivery.
permissions for the Groups FCAThe Group maintains D&O, professional authorised subsidiary resulting indemnity and clinical trial insurance in loss of fund management policies.
contracts, reputational damage The Group reviews its data and cyberor fines.
security processes with its external A material adverse event could outsourced IT provider and applies the occur during an MBS clinical trial.
UK Governments ten steps framework.
A data security or cyber breach could occur or the Group could otherwise fail to adhere to data protection regulations.
Key: Increase Decrease Create Develop Deliver No change 40 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:01 PM Strategic Report Risk management Risk and description Impact Mitigation Risk trend Developments during the year Strategy KPI Changes could result in University partners are incentivised to Ongoing focus on regulatory compliance Total equity 6 There may be changes to, universities and researchers no protect their IP for exploitation as the including third party reviews.
Viability statement The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meets its liabilities, as they fall due, for the next three years.
The Directors robust assessment has been made with reference to the Groups current position and prospects, the Groups strategy, the Boards risk appetite and the Groups principal risks and how these are managed, as detailed table above.
The strategy and associated principal risks underpin the Groups three year plan and scenario testing, which the Directors review at least annually.
The three year plan is built using a bottom up model.
The three year plan makes certain assumptions about the level of capital deployed into, and realisations from, its portfolio of companies, the financial performance and valuation of the underlying portfolio companies, the Groups utilisation of its debt finance facility and ability to raise further capital, and the level of the Groups net overheads.
The plan is stress-tested in a robust downside scenario as part of the Boards review of the principal risks of the business, primarily through reducing the fair value of the Groups portfolio company interests, reducing the amount of capital that the Group is able to raise, lowering the deployment of capital and decreasing portfolio company divestment proceeds.
The three year plan review is underpinned by the regular Board briefings provided by the sector heads and the discussion of any new strategies undertaken by the Board in its normal course of business.
These reviews consider both the market opportunity and the associated risks, principally the required level of investment into the Groups portfolio companies and its ability to raise equity capital.
These risks are considered within the Boards risk appetite framework.
com 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:01 PM Building a sustainable business Our Values: Passionate, Pioneering, Principled that we support with financial and human capital.
Our Our Business ethics and portfolio companies, which are primarily focused on social responsibility the biotechnology, technology, healthcare and clean Our goal is to build a sustainable and viable business.
technology sectors, are developing solutions to some As part of that, the Group seeks to conduct all of of the most significant social, environmental and its operating and business activities in an honest, health challenges faced in the world today.
While the ethical and socially responsible manner and these Group is pleased to support these world-changing values underpin our business model and strategy.
innovations, it recognises the importance of ensuring We are committed to acting professionally, fairly that the businesses it establishes and nurtures and with integrity in all our business dealings and comply with all applicable environmental, ethical and relationships with consideration for the needs of all social legislation.
IP Groups direct involvement in its of our stakeholders which include university partners, portfolio companies allows greater scope to engage investors, suppliers, employees, and the businesses in with the management teams of these companies and which the Group has holdings.
guide them on these matters.
IP Group pioneered the concept of the long-term IP Group aims to conduct its business in a socially partnership model and has arrangements covering responsible manner, to contribute to the communities 14 of the UKs leading universities and 3 of the Ivy in which it operates and to respect the needs of its League universities in the US.
Our New Business employees and all of its stakeholders.
The Group is & Partnerships Team and sector teams work committed to growing the business while ensuring a closely with the universities to identify exciting safe environment for employees as well as minimising opportunities and to ensure these partnerships are the overall impact on the environment.
We believe that our approach endeavours to conduct its business in accordance to providing executive and administrative support, with established best practice, to be a responsible where appropriate, to portfolio companies gives employer and to adopt values and standards their founders the best possible chance of building designed to help guide staff in their conduct and a successful business.
Our support of early-stage business relationships.
businesses demonstrates our alignment with The Group works with a variety of suppliers and seeks government initiatives in science and innovation to ensure that there is diversity in the supply chain, and contributes to employment growth in the working with SMEs as well as larger organisations.
communities in which our portfolio companies Where possible we work with local suppliers therefore operate.
impacting positively on the communities where we In addition to the support they receive from operate.
The Group is a signatory to the Prompt the Group, our portfolio businesses often seek Payment Code.
funding from other sources, both public such as The Group seeks to operate as a responsible government-backed grant funding and private employer and has adopted standards which from sources ranging from angel investors and promote corporate values designed to help and small privately-owned funds to large institutional guide employees in their conduct and business investors, and the Group will often assist in gaining relationships.
The Group seeks to comply with all access to this financial capital.
The Group complies laws, regulations and rules applicable to its business with all applicable legislation in this respect and and to conduct the business in line with applicable communicates with its co-investors in an appropriate established best practice.
We take a zero tolerance and transparent manner.
As a publicly traded entity, approach to bribery and corruption and implement IP Group actively seeks to engage and maintain and enforce effective systems to counter bribery.
The an open dialogue with its private and institutional Group is bound by the laws of the UK, including the shareholders through its investor relations Bribery Act 2010, and has implemented policies and programme.
procedures based on such laws.
All employees who The Groups day-to-day activities have limited are involved with the regulated business of managing adverse social and environmental impact.
There can, investment transactions receive compliance and antihowever, be a more significant impact indirectly money laundering training, with periodic refresher through the nature and operations of the companies courses.
42 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:01 PM Strategic Report Building a sustainable business Breakdown of staff by gender as at 31 Dec 2015 Total Staff: 63 excl.
NEDs Male Female Board 70% 30% Senior Management 69% 31% All Employees 48% 52% significant number of start-up enterprises and seeing Employee diversity and first-hand what works and what doesnt.
Sharing employment policies knowledge and discussing these experiences as well Diversity is key to how we work and great ideas as structured training is key to leveraging this learning can come from anyone.
As such, quite naturally, across the Group.
we believe in equal opportunity for all people To this end, we encourage employees to build very when it comes to recruitment, selection and career strong relationships with all their colleagues by development.
This belief is enshrined in our policies, keeping everyone updated regularly and often in which have been revamped and modernised in 2015 person on the Groups objectives and progress.
with relevant training provided for all employees.
Exceptional people doing exceptional things should For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group be well-rewarded for achieving exceptional results.
employed an average of 63 employees and had five While heavily weighted to successful performance non-executive directors.
A breakdown of our people over the medium to long-term, we consider that by gender can be seen in the table above.
IP Group the Group offers an attractive overall remuneration supports the rights of all people as set out in the UN package to all our employees with both shortUniversal Declaration of Human Rights and, insofar and longer-term components.
We benchmark as it is able to, ensures that all transactions the Group remuneration and benefits regularly against the enters into uphold these principles.
Our remuneration and benefits package focuses on supporting health through private Talent Management medical and Ride-to-Work and family insurance We believe in recruiting exceptional people to do and through inclusion of families in some of our other exceptional things and we know how important our benefit options and Childcare Vouchers while also unique culture is to attracting and retaining talent.
offering opportunities for investment and saving Our values passionate, principled, pioneering truly through certain schemes.
describe what it feels like to work within IP Group.
People are given an unusual degree of freedom and Health and Safety authority to accomplish the extraordinary things All our people are responsible for the promotion we do and we are necessarily highly supportive of of, and adherence to, health and safety measures flexible working.
We consider these to be important in the workplace.
The Chief Operating Officer has in our approach to turning ground-breaking science overall responsibility for the implementation of the into world-changing businesses.
Groups health and safety policies and procedures.
Because we operate in a highly specialised segment The primary purpose of the Groups health and of our industry, we recruit talent with a combination safety policy is to enable all of the Groups people of rare skills such as scientists with commercial and to go about their everyday business at work in the entrepreneurial backgrounds, who can operate with expectation that they can do so safely and without equal confidence in both academia and fast-paced risk to their health.
During the years ended 31 start-ups while speaking the language of the City.
December 2015 and 31 December 2014, no reportable Development comes to a very large degree from accidents occurred under UK Health and Safety the experience our people gain from working with a regulations.
com 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:01 PM Building a sustainable business continued Copies of the Groups policies in relation to equal The Group also continued its work experience opportunities and diversity, health and safety and programme in 2015 which gives students a taste anti-corruption and bribery can be found on the of working life and illustrates how each employee Groups website: www.
com contributes to the Groups business.
This year, the Group partnered with Petchey Academy, inviting Community engagement 15 students to a taster session following which they were given the opportunity to apply for a one week The Group seeks to have a positive impact on the programme.
The successful student then spent communities in which it operates and one of the ways the week following the story of IP Group meeting in which it achieves this is through charitable support different teams and making a visit to portfolio at both a Group level and by staff.
The Group aims to company Ceres.
The feedback from both students donate up to 1% of the previous years realised profits and teachers has been very positive.
to one or more charities which have a particular relevance to IP Groups activities or to members of Organisation boundary our team.
The Groups chosen charities in 2015 were the Multiple Sclerosis Society, which helps support and scope of emissions people with MS and fund research, and The Percy The following section includes our mandatory Hedley Foundation, which provides specialist and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions.
The reporting personalised care and education support to disabled period is the same as the Groups financial year.
We people and their families.
A list of charities the Group have reported on all of the emission sources required has supported to date can be found on the Groups under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and website: www.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statement.
In 2015, the Group donated a total of 17,239 to charitable causes, with 15,655.50 going to the An operational control approach has been used in charities listed above and 1,801.50 being donated order to define our organisational boundary.
This is to other charities for employee match funding or the basis for determining the Scope 1 and 2 emissions discretionary donations.
Employee initiatives included for which the Group is responsible.
a lunchtime feast and a half marathon walk through For avoidance of doubt, this excludes any emissions the night raising a total of 733.43 in addition to from our investment subsidiary companies.
Management believe the approach taken best captures the emissions for which the Group is directly responsible and has control over.
Case Study Mentoring for Career Ready Career Ready is a national charity committed to preparing students for the world of work, including a one year mentoring partnership for students to work in industry.
Students may not always have friends or family to act as role models and mentors can support the students giving career and life guidance, acting as a soundboard and being a critical friend.
Anne-Sofie Lagander, part of the IP Exec team, piloted the mentoring programme for the Group and found it to be a challenging, yet interesting process: Throughout the last year I have been meeting with an A-Level student, who is really at a crossroads in her life and has to make the difficult decision as to what follows after college.
Through our monthly discussions and meetups we have explored different options and I have taken a holistic approach, discussing University and work, but also lifestyle choices and how these may play a part in planning her future.
It hasnt always been a straightforward and easy process, but I hope that my time with the student has been a support now and in the future.
I have found the mentor programme has challenged some of my thinking.
I will continue as a mentor for Career Ready and hope to maintain the relationship with last years student.
44 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:01 PM Strategic Report Building a sustainable business Methodology Intensity ratio The Group has employed the services of a specialist As well as reporting the absolute emissions, the adviser, Verco, to quantify the GHG emissions Groups GHG emissions are reported below on the associated with the Groups operations.
metric of tonnes per square metre of occupied office space.
This is considered the most appropriate metric The following methodology was applied by Verco in given that the majority of emissions result from the the preparation and presentation of this data: operation of the Groups offices and the day-to-day the Greenhouse Gas Protocol published by activities of the employees.
the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute Target and baselines the WBCSD WRI GHG Protocol : Given the comparatively low GHG impact of the application of Defra emission factors to the Groups operations, the Groups objective is to Groups activities to calculate GHG emissions: maintain or reduce its GHG per square metre of office inclusion of all the applicable Kyoto gases, space each year and will report each year whether it expressed in carbon dioxide equivalents, or CO e: 2 has been successful in this regard.
presentation of gross emissions as the Group does For 2015, the intensity metric has increased from 0.13 not purchase carbon credits or equivalents.
2 2 tCO e per m to 0.27 tCO e per m. This is primarily 2 2 due to the increase in Scope 1 emissions from Absolute emissions refrigerant gas loss.
If like for like Scope 1 emissions The total greenhouse emissions from IP Group plcs without refrigerant gas loss across the two periods operations in the financial year 2015 year ending are considered only, then the performance for 2015 is 31 December 2015 were: 460.5 tonnes of CO 2 2 0.13 tCO e per m. 2 equivalent tCO e. 2 The increase in emissions comes from Scope 1 emissions, due to emissions from refrigerant gas losses and Scope 3 due to Business travel.
Scope 1 being emissions from the Groups combustion of fuel and operation of facilities.
Scope 2 being electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for the Groups own use.
Scope 3 being emissions which the Group is not directly responsible for, but arise as a by-product of its operation.
Board approval The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 1 to 45, has been approved by the Board.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD Mike Humphrey Chairman 29 February 2016 45 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:01 PM Develop To build and maintain a pipeline of compelling intellectual propertybased opportunities 46 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:02 PM Our Governance Committee Reports Our Governance Overview Board of Directors 48 Corporate Governance 50 Committee Reports Did you know that Directors Remuneration Report 62 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 87... in helping Ultrahaptics Limited on Other Statutory Directors report 91 its journey, IP Group worked with Statement of Directors the company from a very early Responsibilities 93 stage, providing management time, funding and business strategy.
IP Exec, the Groups executive search arm, found the companys chairman, Michael Tobin, while IP Capital, the Groups FCAauthorised subsidiary, advised on and co-ordinated Ultrahaptics 10m Series A funding round.
