STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT As a global company, JLT faces a range of risks, each of which has the potential to impact on the achievement of our strategic business objectives, as well as providing opportunity in the right circumstances.
JLTS INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK JLT 3 lines of defence 3RD LINE Independently assess risk The Group operates a 3 lines of defence management and control model as a core component of its governance GROUP INTERNAL AUDIT effectiveness arrangements, as shown.
2ND LINE Provides policy advice, guidance and challenge CONTROL FUNCTIONS to the 1st line Fully accountable for the 1ST LINE identification, assessment THE BUSINESS and management of risk The current 3 lines model has been in place and operating for three years, which provides a solid governance platform from which to develop.
During 2015, JLT began a review to further enhance the framework over the next 3 years, building on the work done to date.
Its focus is to ensure that specialist knowledge is readily available to the businesses to enable them to take and be fully accountable for risk-based decisions, whilst providing an effective level of risk and compliance oversight for the Group.
JLT reviews its governance arrangements through Board and Audit & Risk Committee ARC effectiveness reviews on an annual basis.
JLT Audit and Risk Committees JLT has implemented a consistent governance model across the Group, run through Boards and ARCs on an individual business level Entity Boards and Entity ARCs.
Each Entity ARC is chaired by a Non-Executive Director who, in most instances, is also independent.
Group Risk & Compliance and Group Internal Audit are attendees at meetings of each body and provide independent reporting to each meeting to ensure there is adequate discussion on key risks, mitigating controls and issues.
A Non-Executive Director forum meets regularly and allows the sharing of new initiatives and discussion of common topics of interest.
The following diagram shows the interaction of the 3 lines of defence within the governance model.
The Group-wide ARC membership, terms of reference and key areas of focus are outlined in the Audit & Risk Committee Report on pages 58 to 63: Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Board Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Audit & Risk Committee Group Risk & Group Internal Entity Boards Compliance Audit Entity Audit & Risk Committees External Audit st nd rd 1 Line 2 Line 3 Line The Business Control Functions Group Internal Audit & External Audit 40 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In addition to the above, the businesses maintain their own INTERNAL CONTROLS risk registers, which are produced by each executive team and Underpinning JLTs governance is a suite of policies, which regularly reviewed by their Entity ARC.
The ARCs consider the are authored and managed by the relevant Group function and key risks and any mitigating action that can be taken to keep accessible to employees across JLT via the Groups Policy Portal.
the identified risks within the risk appetite of the firm, as well as Adherence to the Groups policies is monitored by the functions assessing new opportunities.
that own them and by Group Internal Audit, who refer to the Entity ARCs and to the Group ARC.
An example of some key PRINCIPAL RISKS policies include: The principal risks faced by the Group are summarised in the Anti-bribery and corruption table below.
Complaints Human Resources FINANCIAL RISKS IT Security The principal financial risks are also discussed in more detail in the Sanctions Finance Directors Review on page 38.
Whistleblowing Each business maintains an Operating Procedures Manual, which contains all key procedures for the business to conduct itself in a compliant and sustainable manner.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK JLTs risk management framework is regularly reviewed and is being refreshed during 2016.
Each risk category IT, HR, Finance, Charles Rozes Operations etc.
has a Group level sponsor whose daily role is Finance Director aligned to the subject matter.
The Group specialists are engaged 1 March 2016 in defining the Group level risk profile, which is used in deriving the Principal Risks shown below and in arriving at the Viability Statement shown on page 85.
PRINCIPAL RISKS NATURE OF RISK RISK MITIGATION STRATEGIC RISKS Economic Instability JLTs business is more tied to economic activity Global business operations balanced across a broad range of and growth rather than re insurance market rates, territories and business types.
since greater levels of corporate activity generally Well funded balance sheet and cash generation.
drive greater demand for the Groups services.
Annual strategy review at Board and Group Executive There is a risk that economic instability reduces Committee.
Annual strategy review at Board and Group Executive Strategic Risks There are risks to the companys strategic plan Committee.
arising from changes in the external environment, Formal three year planning process for every business.
markets and customer behaviour, as well as risks arising from acquisitions and strategic change Acquisition due diligence and risk assessment processes.
Programme governance over strategic change initiatives, including adequate resourcing.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Loss of Key Staff The Groups principal asset is its people: there is a Distinctive entrepreneurial, collaborative, results and team risk that the organisation may not be able to attract orientated culture and environment.
and retain market leading talent.
Effective staff reward and retention strategies.
Effective staff appraisal and development programmes.
Dedicated Group Business Continuity Management function.
Business Interruption The Group operates from over 100 offices in 40 Detailed Group business continuity policy and procedures for territories across the world, each with a unique each business unit.
There is a risk of a business interruption due to a large, unexpected incident.
Regular independent review and testing of business continuity plans.
Governance procedures over IT outsourcing and service level Loss of IT Environment The Group is reliant on the ability to process its agreements.
transactions on behalf of its clients.
Risks arise Dedicated IT Security function.
from non-performance of an IT supplier, malicious Monitoring of compliance with group IT security policy and act and or cyber-crime.
Annual IT Disaster Recovery Plan test by each business.
41 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS NATURE OF RISK RISK MITIGATION Group Information Security Policy and procedures.
Information Security Intermediaries and pension administrators retain Dedicated Information Risk and Data Protection functions.
confidential data in the normal course of business.
Risks relate to loss of customer records or breach Risk-based monitoring and reviews performed by Group IT of confidentiality due to inadequate security.
Common operating procedures and compliance policy.
Errors & Omissions Intermediaries run a risk of incurring a loss if Continuous training in errors and omissions avoidance.
the operating procedures in place across the Central and regional risk and compliance monitoring.
Group in relation to market security, placement and claims are not complied with or alleged Strong procedural and systems controls including workflow negligence breach of contract in the provision of management.
Regular and ongoing quality assurance programmes.
Market security processes, monitoring and Insurer Impairment Plan.
Dedicated Legal and M&A functions with oversight Litigation Litigation risk can arise from a number of different responsibilities.
sources such as: Continuous staff training in HR policies and procedures.
M&A litigation e. g. breach of Sale & Formal recruitment processes based upon HR and legal advice.
Tortious liability arising from the recruitment of individuals where appropriate recruitment controls are not adhered to.
Regulatory Breach Risks arise from non-compliance with or Regular sanctions and third party payments screening Financial Crime misinterpretation of local and international programme.
regulations and failure to meet regulatory standards both in the present, and retrospectively, in relation Continuous staff training programmes.
Central and regional risk and compliance oversight.
FINANCIAL RISKS Capital Risk and Liquidity Risks arising from an inability to maintain an Management reviews of business unit balance sheets and cash effective and efficient capital structure and ensure flows.
an optimal cost of capital, or meet the short term Maintenance of committed credit facilities.
financial demands of the business.
Compliance with regulatory minimum capital requirements and regular stress testing.
Maintenance of a conservative funding profile.
Prudent management of transactional currency exposures Foreign Currency The Group has foreign exchange exposures to: through a structured hedging programme.
Translational risk arising from the need to Regular review and sensitivity analysis of currency translation convert currencies into GBP for reporting impacts to financial reports.
Transactional risk arising from revenues and costs being denominated in different currencies.
Board approved investment and counterparty policy to: Counterparty Risk There is a risk associated with a failure of a key - Limit the concentration of funds and exposure with any counterparty resulting in a loss of own cash, one counter-party.
fiduciary funds, investments & deposits, derivative assets and or trade receivables.
- Defined cash and investments policy.
Active management and monitoring of counterparty limits, financial strength and credit profile of key counterparties.
Regular review by Board and Audit & Risk Committee of counterparty limits, ratings, credit default swap spread rates, utilisation levels and compliance with applicable regulation.
Regular monitoring and reporting of scheme asset performance Defined Benefit Pension Risk of adverse impact on the balance sheet and liability positions.
Scheme income statement as a consequence of increase Appropriate scheme investment strategy and diversification.
in the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme deficit.
Triennial actuarial valuations and regular trustee funding updates.
Regular review of long term fide-risking strategy.
Regular scheme membership data verification.
Regular review of employer covenant.
42 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015
