John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35 Link to Change in strategic risk since objectives 31 December Risk note Mitigation 2014 Counterparty risk The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk with 3 The Group works with multiple clients, joint venture regards to i governmental entities, sub-contractors, partners, sub-contractors and institutional investors so as No change lenders and suppliers at a project level and to reduce the probability of systemic counterparty risk in ii consortium partners, financial institutions and its investment portfolio.
In establishing project contractual suppliers at a Group level.
arrangements prior to making an investment, the credit standing and relevant experience of a sub-contractor are In overseas jurisdictions, the Groups investments considered.
Post contract award, the financial standing of backed by governmental entities may ultimately be key counterparties is monitored to provide an early warning subject to sovereign risk.
PPP projects are normally supported by central and local government covenants, which significantly reduce the Groups risk.
Risk is further reduced by the increasing geographical spread of the Groups investments.
Counterparties for deposits at a Group level, project debt swaps and deposits within project companies are required to be banks with a suitable credit rating and are monitored on an ongoing basis.
Entry into new geographical areas which have a different legal framework and or different financial market characteristics is considered by the Board separately from individual investment decisions.
Typically, a substantial proportion of the revenue generated by renewable energy projects is backed by governmental support mechanisms.
Major incident A major incident at any of the projects invested in by the At financial close, projects benefit from comprehensive 2, 3 Group, such as a terrorist attack or war, could lead to a insurance arrangements, either directly or through No change loss of crucial business data, technology, buildings and contractors insurance policies.
reputation and harm to the public, all of which could Detailed business continuity plans have been designed and collectively or individually result in a loss of value for are tested at frequent regular intervals.
procedures are also regularly updated in order to maintain their relevance.
John Laing operates to independent, third party-certified management systems in respect of health and safety OHSAS 18001:2007 and environmental management ISO 14001:2004.
In addition it routinely monitors health, safety and environmental issues in the projects it invests in or manages.
Investment adviser agreements with JLIF and or JLEN A loss of JLCMs investment adviser agreements with 2 Through JLCM, and supported by other parts of the Asset JLIF and JLEN respectively would be detrimental to the Management division, the Group focuses on delivering a No change Groups Asset Management business.
high quality service to both funds.
Future returns from investments The Groups historical returns and cash yields from 1, 2, 3 In bidding for new projects, the Group sets a target internal investments may not be indicative of future returns.
rate of return taking account of historical experience, No change current market conditions and expected returns once the The Groups expected hold-to-maturity internal rates of project becomes operational.
The Group continually looks return from investments are based on a variety of for value enhancement opportunities which would improve assumptions which may not be correct at the time they the target rate of return.
are made and may not be achieved in the future.
At the investment appraisal stage, projects are tested for their sensitivity to changes in key assumptions.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 36 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Link to Change in strategic risk since objectives 31 December Risk note Mitigation 2014 Taxation The Group may be exposed to changes in taxation in the 1, 3 Tax positions taken by the Group are based on industry jurisdictions in which it operates, or it may cease to practice and or external tax advice.
Increased satisfy the conditions for relevant reliefs.
Tax authorities At the investment appraisal stage, projects are tested for may disagree with the positions that the Group has taken their sensitivity to changes in tax rates.
Project valuations or intends to take.
are regularly updated for changes in tax rates.
Project companies may be exposed to changes in The Groups understanding is that not all governments will taxation in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
implement the OECD recommendations in the same way.
In October 2015, the OECD published its recommendations Some believe their existing rules are adequate to limit for tackling Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS by the scope for BEPS.
Others may take advantage of international companies.
The governments of OECD grandfathering provisions or the potential for exemptions countries are now considering how best to implement for projects with a public benefit.
The Group has contributed these recommendations into their domestic law.
The to the UK Governments consultation on how to implement OECD has identified the use of tax deductible interest as the OECD recommendations.
one of the key areas where there is opportunity for BEPS The Groups effective tax rate tends to be lower than the by international companies.
To the extent that one or standard rate of UK corporation tax principally because the more of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates contributions the Group makes to JLPF are deductible for changes its rules to limit tax deductible interest, this tax purposes.
could significantly impact the way in which future project-financed infrastructure investments are structured in those jurisdictions.
Personnel The Group may fail to recruit or retain key senior 1, 2, 3 The Group regularly reviews pay and benefits to ensure management and skilled personnel in, or relocate they remain competitive.
The Groups senior managers No change high-quality personnel to, the jurisdictions in which participate in long term incentive plans.
The Group plans it operates or seeks to expand.
its human resources needs carefully, including appropriate local recruitment, when it bids for overseas projects.
Note: The Groups three strategic objectives, as set out in the Chief Executive Officers review, are: 1.
Growth in primary investment volumes new capital committed to greenfield infrastructure projects over the medium term.
Growth in the value of external AuM and related fee income.
Management and enhancement of the Groups investment portfolio, accompanied by realisations of investments which, combined with the Groups corporate banking facilities and operational cash flows, enable it to finance new investment commitments.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The John Laing Group has committed for the long term to its corporate responsibility agenda which is endorsed by the John Laing Executive Committee.
However in relation to our community investment strategy, it is the engagement of our employees that makes the difference.
Our intent is to be a good corporate citizen and to support our employees to contribute positively in their own capacities to good causes where they live and work.
Our policies and procedures reflect the values, of a responsible employer which operates with integrity, and in a manner that is both ethical and transparent.
Olivier Brousse CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMMUNITY INVESTMENT THE JOHN LAING CHARITABLE TRUST JLCT Our community investment strategy is delivered through our JLCT supports the work of welfare visitors who look after the employees and a number of partners.
needs of former employees and their surviving partners.
Its trustees set aside considerable funds each year to provide Since 2006 we have been an active Patron of the Princes Trust, financial help and assistance.
which has allowed us to support disadvantaged and vulnerable young people across the UK, to help them move into work, All John Laing employees or members of their immediate education or training.
In May 2015, a team of 26 John Laing staff family directly involved in a charity are able to apply to JLCT and members of their families undertook a mountain challenge for a grant of up to 1,000 to support a good cause: in the UKs Lake District.
Through sponsorship matched by the additionally JLCT is able to match charitable donations raised John Laing Charitable Trust JLCT, the team raised 18,770 for by employees, up to a value of 1,500 per employee.
JLCT, the Company was able to reward the loyalty of long serving staff as well as recognising their contribution to the The Group encourages its staff to become involved in activities business through the annual Star Awards see Workplace and initiatives that benefit local communities and environments.
In 2015, employees qualifying for Star Awards were During the year our Asset Management finance team undertook given the opportunity to donate up to 1,000 towards a charity community work on the Thrive garden project in Battersea Park, of their choice.
During 2015, the combined donations on all London, an initiative set up by Business in the Communitys these fronts equated to over 70,000.
This involved cleaning planting areas, clearing walkways and assisting in the projects on-site shop as well as working with people living with disabilities and ill health.
During 2015, staff in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the US They also included the New Generation Rollingstock team successfully applied to JLCT for donations to charities they are in our Brisbane office becoming actively involved in Oz Harvest, involved with and wished to support.
Their activities included a a perishable food rescue organisation in Australia that collects 2km open sea swim from Bondi Beach for seven colleagues excess food from commercial outlets and delivers it to in excess from Sydney supporting The Kids Cancer charity project.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 38 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED HEALTH AND SAFETY Methodology We quantify and report our organisational GHG emissions in John Laing holds independent third party certification for the alignment with the World Resources Institute GHG Protocol  occupational health and safety Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and in alignment management system BS OHSAS 18001:2007, and operates in with the new Scope 2 Guidance update to the Corporate Standard.
accordance with the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 and all We report on GHG emissions where we have operational control.
As an international organisation, we operate to UK legislated standards across all our undertakings, We have voluntarily reported on our Scope 3 indirect emissions or country specific standards if higher.
from business travel and water consumption using the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain Scope 3 Standard.
We have These arrangements enable us to demonstrate our ongoing worked with Carbon Credentials Energy Services to calculate our commitment to the health and safety of all our staff and anyone GHG emissions.
who may be directly or indirectly affected by our activities.
We strive to deliver continual improvement in all areas of our The GHG sources that are covered for the 2015 reporting period are: health and safety performance and regularly engage with our Scope 1: Natural gas combustion within boilers and fuel employees to ensure that their occupational health and combustion within leased vehicles wellbeing is considered a key business priority.
We have systems in place to monitor the implementation of health and safety Scope 2: Purchased electricity consumption for our own use throughout the business.
within buildings and leased electric vehicles Scope 3: Business travel and the supply and treatment of water ENVIRONMENT In some cases, values have been estimated using either We seek to reduce the impact on the environment from extrapolation of available data from the reporting period or data infrastructure projects in which we invest through engagement from 2014 as a proxy.
with both projects public sector clients and contractors alike.
Wherever possible, we develop joint strategies to reduce both TOTAL EMISSIONS 2015 greenhouse gas emissions and the volume of waste to landfill 426.9 produced by such projects.
tCO e 2 John Laing captures energy data covering head office and business travel activities, in order to determine, and where feasible reduce, our direct consumption and associated carbon footprint.
The majority of our office accommodation is fitted with energy efficient technology to ensure our operations do not cause unnecessary detriment to the environment.
152.9 152.9 In order to comply with the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme Regulations 2014 ESOS Regulations, John Laing issued a 52.2 52.2 qualifying and independently audited submission to the Environment Agency during November 2015.
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Location-based As a listed company, we have an obligation to report greenhouse The new Scope 2 Guidance in the GHG Protocol referred to above gas emissions pursuant to Section 7 of the Companies Act 2006 requires that we quantify and report Scope 2 emissions from Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013. purchased electricity consumption for our own use using two The table below shows our greenhouse gas GHG emissions different methodologies: the location-based method, using for the year ended 31 December 2015.
We listed on the London average emissions factors for the country in which the reported Stock Exchange in 2015 and accordingly do not provide operations take place, and the market-based method, which comparable figures for 2014. uses the actual emissions factors of the energy procured.
This is known as dual reporting.
Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide tCO or 2 carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e The bar chart below shows John Laings Scope 2 emissions from 2 purchased electricity, which have been calculated using the two Emissions source Emissions different methodologies.
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 52.2 tCO e 2 SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS tCO e tCO 152.9 Electricity purchased for our own use within buildings 2 2 and leased electric vehicles Scope 2: location-based 152.9 tCO e 2 Electricity purchased for our own use within buildings and leased electric vehicles Scope 2: market-based 105.9 tCO 2 105.9 105.9 Other indirect emissions Scope 3 426.9 tCO e 2 Emissions resulting from the consumption of electricity outside the UK and emissions from purchased electricity calculated on the market-based approach using supplier-specific emission factors are reported in tCO rather than tCO e due to the 2 2 availability of emission factors.
Location-based Market-based approach tCO e approach tCO 2 2 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 The two methodologies are also illustrated in the table below.
The Group has a number of work-life balance policies and practices in place which support flexible working, working Gross greenhouse gas emissions and emissions intensity metric parents and periods of absence from the work place.
The Group in tCO e or tCO 2 2 seeks to exceed statutory minimum requirements where it can.
For example we offer enhanced maternity, paternity and adoption Location-based Market-based pay arrangements.
approach approach The Group also provides an employee assistance programme which is available to all employees, their partners and their Scope 1 & 2 emissions 205.1 tCO e 158.1 tCO 2 2 immediate family.
This is an independent service which offers Scope 1 & 2 emissions per full-time support and counselling on a wide range of work, personal and equivalent FTE employee 0.61 tCO e 0.42 tCO 2 2 family issues.
Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 632.0 tCO e 585.0 tCO 2 2 Learning and Development We support the skills, development and learning of employees Scope 1 and 2 emissions per FTE are based on a figure of through a range of means, including external courses and 250 FTE employees.
seminars, sponsorship for undertaking professional qualifications, secondments, development assessments, Improving Performance and coaching and mentoring.
As part of compliance with the UK Energy Savings Opportunities Scheme, we have identified savings which could lead to a reduction Retention of our employees through effective development is in electricity consumption at our headquarters at 1 Kingsway, key to the success of the business.
During the year, we provided London, as well as reductions in emissions from business mileage.
personal development, mentoring and coaching support for employees with high potential.
We also provided a programme WORKPLACE of courses and workshops that support the development of key management skills.
Throughout 2015, we also focused on the Our People development requirements of individuals and teams, supported John Laing aims to attract, retain, engage, develop and reward where necessary with external facilitation, to ensure teams are its high quality employees.
We fully support our people to operating effectively.
maximise their career potential through learning and development We continue to focus on the development of our people through and to achieve a work-life balance.
We recognise that investing an annual Performance Development Review.
This encourages in our people is critical to the success of our business.
discussion on performance and objectives between individuals and their managers.
It also allows individuals to discuss their Employment career aspirations and identify with their manager development At 31 December 2015, the Group employed 252 people in the UK opportunities to support these.
During 2015 we continued to align our resource base with the needs of the markets in which we During 2015, the Group ran an in-house training programme operate.
As a result the percentage of staff located outside the which covered a wide range of subjects, including management UK increased from 18% to 22%.
development, negotiation, personal effectiveness, professional development and information technology.
During 2016, we are Employee Engagement placing a premium on on-the-job training and also putting the Employees are regularly informed of progress and updates in the onus on staff to identify their own training needs.
business through conference calls conducted by the Executive We also offer a personal financial planning course to assist Committee as well as through briefings on topical and relevant employees in planning for their longer-term financial future business issues.
The Groups 15-20 most senior managers met including pension planning.
on three occasions in 2015 over one to two days to address specific business issues as well as future strategies.
We offer a flexible benefits package which allows people to select and choose from a variety of benefits and we conduct annual staff We are committed to a positive working environment free from awards the Star Awards which provide for recognition of the any discrimination or unfair treatment which provides all achievements and contributions employees make to both the employees with equal opportunities to develop within the Group.
Recognition and Reward Staff numbers at 31 December 2015, broken down by certain We regularly review our pay and benefits structure to ensure remuneration and gender criteria, were: that we remain competitive within the market, are attractive to potential employees, and provide the right link between Total Male % Female % performance and reward.
As well as a competitive pay and benefits structure, we recognise and reward employee Total Group 252 153 61 99 39 performance through bonuses and long-term incentive plans.
Senior Managers Work-Life Balance Policies earning above 70,000 per annum 103 91 88 12 12 We recognise the importance of a working environment which enables employees to achieve a balance between Executive Directors 22 100 their work and personal life to the mutual benefit of the individual, the business and society.
Our aim is to create an environment that supports staff and their general wellbeing, maintains effective working practices and enables a productive and positive balance between work and life outside work.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
