Strategic report 44 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties Through a strong risk culture, we are confident of achieving our aspirations of competitive advantage through better business decisions Risk management Risk evaluation and reporting understand the capital consumed by our Purpose We evaluate risks in our operating principal risks.
By applying stress and We use risk management to make better environment supported by scenario analysis scenario testing, we gain insights into how informed business decisions that generate and decide how best to manage the risks risks might impact the Group in different value for shareholders while delivering within our risk appetite.
appropriate outcomes for our customers regularly review their risks and produce and providing confidence to other reports to provide assurance that material Own Risk and Solvency Assessment stakeholders.
Our risk management risks in the business are being mitigated.
The Own Risk and Solvency Assessment processes are designed to ensure that our The Risk team, led by the Chief Risk Officer ORSA, introduced under Solvency II, understanding of risk underpins how we CRO, challenges the management has brought a welcome opportunity to run the business.
team on the effectiveness of its risk further embed comprehensive risk reviews management.
The CRO provides the Group into our Group management structure.
Risk framework Boards Risk and Compliance Committee Our annual ORSA report is a key part of Our risk management framework with his independent assessment of the our business cycle and informs strategic is developed in line with the risk principal risks to the business and emerging decision making.
ORSA updates are environment and best practice.
prepared each quarter to keep the framework, owned by the Group Board, Board appraised of the Groups evolving covers all aspects of risk management Financial risk modelling is used to assess risk profile.
including risk governance, reporting and the amount of each risk type against our policies.
Our appetite for different types risk appetite.
This modelling aligns to our of risk is embedded across the business to economic and regulatory capital create a culture of confident risk taking.
requirements to allow the Board to Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic Risk Risk link Description and impact Mitigation and management action outlook Just Retirement operates in a highly regulated Our approach to legislative and regulatory Risks from our market: changes in relevant legislation and change is to focus on active participation chosen market regulation can have a considerable effect on and engagement with policy makers and environment our strategy and could reduce our sales and regulatory bodies in the UK and Europe, profitability or require us to hold more capital.
The pension reforms introduced in April 2015 The Group has responded to the pension have had a fundamental impact on the reforms by evolving its strategy and developing retirement income market.
At present it is new products and advice offerings.
This difficult to predict what the new norm of followed a careful appraisal of the inherent customer behaviour will be in the longer term.
risks presented by the changes.
However, the Just Retirement expects that a sizeable Group will need to remain agile and prepared segment for guaranteed income for life to flex its assumptions in response to market solutions will still operate as many consumers dynamics.
The Group believes it is well placed surveyed say that they want an income that to adapt to the changing market, supported by will not run out before they die.
Other changes our brand promise, innovation credentials and being considered by the government such as financial strength.
secondary annuity trading and alternative approaches to the taxation of pension The most influential factors in the successful contributions may in time affect the market in delivery of the Groups plans are closely which we operate.
monitored to help inform the business.
The factors include market forecasts and market The Groups strategy and business plans are share, supported by insights into customer and highly sensitive to changes in the assumptions competitor behaviour.
we make about these market factors and uncertainties.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 45 Strategic priorities Risk outlook Ensure our sustainable future Drive efficiency and adaptability No change Increase our customer-centricity Build a winning organisation Increasing risk Decreasing risk New risk Strategic Risk Risk link Description and impact Mitigation and management action outlook The financial services industry continues to see The regulatory agenda for the forthcoming Risks from a high level of regulatory change and more year covers many areas directly relevant to regulatory intense regulatory supervision with proactive the Group.
We monitor these developments on changes and punitive enforcement activity.
an ongoing basis, assess their potential impacts and engage fully with regulatory bodies to The FCA 2015 16 Business Plan identified areas implement regulatory change effectively, with of focus across the financial services industry the overall aim of delivering a better outcome including the actions resulting from the for our customers and competitive advantage thematic review into the retirement income for the business.
market and possible remediation activity for customers who may have been mis-sold It is recognised that adapting to these annuities by their incumbent pension provider.
regulatory changes may involve a high degree of strategy execution risk associated with the Solvency II, the new European prudential scale and pace of change.
regulatory framework, has introduced wide-ranging changes for the insurance Our preparations for Solvency II are well industry in terms of governance, risk advanced and on target to ensure full management and solvency capital compliance ahead of implementation.
requirements and comes into force on Notably considerable effort has been invested 1 January 2016. in submitting high quality applications for regulatory approval of the internal model, The Group is seeking regulatory approval to matching adjustment and technical provision use an internal model and a matching transitional measures.
We are providing adjustment to calculate its solvency capital and additional information as required by to employ transitional measures to calculate its the regulator to facilitate approval of the technical provisions.
Any approvals not being applications and have contingency plans forthcoming, or being given subject to onerous in place should any approvals not be terms, could increase the Groups solvency forthcoming.
The writing of long-term retirement income To manage the risk of our longevity Risks from and LTM business requires a range of assumptions being incorrect, the Group has our pricing assumptions to be made based on market data developed its own proprietary underwriting assumptions and historical experience, including customers system, PrognoSys, which provides insights longevity, corporate bond yields, interest rates and enhanced understanding of the longevity and expenses.
These assumptions are applied risks that the Group chooses to take.
to the calculation of the reserves needed for future liabilities and solvency margins using Longevity experience is analysed to identify recognised actuarial approaches.
any outcomes materially different from our assumptions and is used for the regular review The Groups assumptions on these risk factors of the reserving basis for liabilities.
No changes may be materially inaccurate requiring them to have been made to GIfL longevity assumptions be recalibrated.
This could affect the level of and reserves during the year.
reserves needed with an impact on profitability and the Groups solvency position.
Some longevity risk exposure is shared with reinsurance partners, who perform due diligence on the Groups approach to risk selection.
The related counterparty risk of the reinsurer failing to meet its repayment obligations is managed by the reinsurer depositing the reinsurance premiums back to the Group for the financing treaties and by collateral arrangements for the longevity swaps.
Strategic report 46 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Strategic Risk Risk link Description and impact Mitigation and management action outlook The premiums paid by the Groups customers Economic conditions are actively monitored Risks from are invested to enable future benefit payments and alternative scenarios modelled to the economic to be made.
The economic environment and better understand the potential impacts of environment financial market conditions have a significant significant economic changes and to inform influence on the value of assets and liabilities management action plans.
and on the income the Group receives.
An adverse market could increase the risk The Groups strategy is for its investment of credit downgrades and defaults in our portfolio to comprise high quality, low-risk corporate bond portfolio.
assets to facilitate management of the asset and liability matching position.
Portfolio credit Loose monetary policy has supported global risk is managed by specialist fund managers growth since the financial crisis.
As recovery executing a diversified investment strategy in becomes more evident, the UK and US central investment grade assets while adhering to banks will cautiously tighten monetary policy counterparty limits.
with interest rates expected to rise in the next 12months.
In a low interest rate environment, improved returns are sought by diversifying the In an environment of very low risk-free interest types, geographies and industry sectors of rates and large-scale purchases of assets by investment assets.
Such diversification can central banks across advanced economies, create an exposure to foreign exchange investors are more willing to accept higher risk, which is controlled using derivative credit and liquidity risk to improve investment instruments.
Swaps and swaptions are used returns.
These conditions could make it difficult to reduce exposures to interest rate volatility.
to source sufficient assets to offer attractive The credit exposure to the counterparties retirement income terms.
Low credit spreads with whom we transact these instruments similarly affect the income that can be made is mitigated by collateral arrangements.
available although margins from our LTM portfolio help offset this risk.
The Groups exposure to inflation risk through DB business volumes is managed with inflation Most defined benefit pension schemes hedging mechanisms.
link member benefits to inflation through indexation.
As the Groups DB business For LTM, the Group underwrites the properties volumes grow, its exposure to inflation against which it lends using valuations from risk increases.
The Groups property risk is controlled by limits to the loan to property A fall in residential property values could value ratio supported by product design reduce the amounts received from LTM features, initial underwriting and monitoring of redemptions and may affect the relative the exposure to adverse house price attractiveness of the LTM product.
capital needed to support the no-negative equity guarantee in the LTM product also Liquidity risk is managed by ensuring that increases if property values drop.
Significant assets of a suitable maturity and marketability rises in property values could increase early are held to meet liabilities as they fall due.
Sufficient liquid assets are maintained so the Group can readily access the cash it needs Market risks may affect the liquidity position should business cash inflows unexpectedly of the Group by, for example, having to realise reduce.
assets to meet liabilities during stressed market conditions or to service collateral requirements There is little short-term volatility in the Groups due to the changes in market value of financial cash flows, which can be reliably estimated in derivatives.
terms of timing and amount.
Regular cash flow forecasts predict liquidity levels both short-term and long-term and stress tests help us understand any potential pinch points.
The Groups liquidity requirements have been comfortably met over the past year and forecasting confirms that this position can be expected to continue for both investments and business operations.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 47 Strategic Risk Risk link Description and impact Mitigation and management action outlook The Groups vision is to be the leading The Group has a low appetite for reputational Risks to Just retirement brand known and trusted for damage and actively seeks to differentiate its Retirements enriching our customers lives.
Damage to our business from competitors by investing in the brands brands and or reputation may adversely affect Groups brands.
Fairness to customers and high our underlying profitability, through reducing service standards are at the heart of our brand sales volumes, limitation of distribution promise.
channels and increasing capital requirements.
Risks to Just Retirements reputation are Brand image and our reputation could be mitigated in part by actively engaging with threatened by external risks such as regulatory government policy makers and regulators interpretation or enforcement action, either to ensure the retirement needs of customers directly or as a result of contagion from are understood.
We develop our strategy other insurers in our sector.
Equally large by giving consideration to planned political organisations are increasingly becoming and regulatory developments and allow for targets for cyber-crime, particularly if those contingencies should outcomes differ from organisations hold customers personal our expectations.
Just Retirement is no exception and a cyber-attack could affect customer Our information security is under constant confidence.
review as the cyber-threat evolves.
Due diligence is performed on all partners to ensure that they work to the same high security standards as the Group.
We remain vigilant to the range of cyber-risks but recognise the speed of change in cyber-threats means that a risk exposure remains.
On 11 August 2015 the Group announced its We have announced that the Group will raise Risks arising intention to merge with Partnership Assurance, up to 150m to support new business and from the and in doing so deliver significant strategic and product development, meet one-off proposed financial benefits for the Combined Group.
transaction and integration costs and support Merger with the regulatory capital strength of the Merger integration is a complex process and Combined Group under Solvency II.
Partnership it may cost more to realise the intended Assurance synergies, take more time or indeed result in Due to the overlapping nature of the two fewer than intended synergies.
During the organisations, we believe that it will be integration process, there is a risk that possible to maintain business as usual activity management are distracted from running and move strategic development forward at the day-to-day business, which could result the same time as integrating the businesses.
The integration plans will reflect this approach.
The impacts of combining two organisations The integration philosophy that we have may produce undesirable impacts on the adopted is best of both and this will set the culture of the future organisation, which in tone for the culture of the new organisation.
turn may impact its future effectiveness.
The Board confirms in the Directors responsibility statement on page 55 that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and business model of the Group.
This Strategic report has been approved by the Board and signed by order of the Board: Martin Smith Group Company Secretary 16 September 2015 48 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Mix and match for a just retirement Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 49 The last couple of years have not been the easiest but we He said that the adviser made them realise that their are looking forward to enjoying retirement without any combined State pensions plus Joannas small company money worries, says Jim Smith, sitting with his wife pension income she already receives would fall far short of Joanna and sipping tea in their small, neat garden.
the target level of income required to meet essential spending on items such as utility bills, food and transport.
The freedom and choice pension reforms were directly And they were still about 100 a month short even after aimed at helping retirees like Jim and Joanna make the including the secure income from his membership of a most of their accumulated funds.
After steady careers, defined benefit pension scheme early in his career.
they approached retirement with a mix of pensions between them plus some modest savings and investments My main private pension fund looked like a big number that were recently boosted by a small inheritance.
but it has to last the rest of our lives.
The adviser showed us that we could use some of that fund to buy a I was never a high flier and saw good and bad times guaranteed income that would provide the 100 we but we always earned enough to pay the bills and bring needed to top us up to our essential spending target.
up the family and sometimes even to save a little too, And by taking my minor heart issues into account, she said the 65-year-old.
The last few years were touch and was able to secure a bit more income too which meant go because my company was struggling which meant we did not have to use so much of the fund.
more work for less money and the threat of redundancy.
At the same time we were looking after my father in his Mr Smith accepted the recommendation to invest his last months and the stress was having an impact on personal pension through Just Retirement, splitting it my health too.
between providing guaranteed income up to the level of their essential spending, with the rest in a Flexible Pension There was a huge sense of relief when we finally realised Plan invested in low-cost passive funds reflecting their we could afford to retire without too many worries about cautious attitude to taking investment risks.
At the moment we have the income we need and some While Jim sensed that the pension reforms would give savings to treat ourselves and the grandchildren if we feel him more options when using their pension money, he like it.
And there is still some pension money to call on struggled to understand many of the finer details or to later, either as a lump sum or more income, or to pass on decide the best course of action for their personal if we dont need it.
We had planned to take the tax-free cash from our pensions but there were so many choices This is really the first time in my life that I know with total about what to do with the rest, he said.
confidence that we have the income we need plus a little extra tucked away.
Weve always been sensible with our In the end I contacted a professional adviser who money but now we have enough for the rest of our lives.
explained what the options were and then recommended a mix and match combination that enabled us to have the income we needed now while still keeping some of our pension for later.
The people in this case study are for illustrative purposes only.
Any resemblance to actual people is unintentional.
