42 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT Can you tell us a bit more about Simon Gadd, group chief risk your Solvency II internal model?
Our internal model seeks to officer for Legal & General, provide a quantitative assessment of the risks that the group is exposed to, so as to ensure that we hold reviews the groups risk prole sufficient capital reserves to survive our assessment of a worse case and the evolution of risk 1-in-200 year event.
Our capital requirement effectively reects our assessment of the additional capital management under Solvency II.
that we may need should our assumptions for factors such as life expectancy or investment returns prove to be incorrect.
The model covers all the material quantiable risk exposures across the Group.
Our entry into the lifetime mortgage And how different are these new market is new, but it draws upon our capital measures to those you have expertise in longevity and interest been using?
rate management, while the exit of We have been using risk based a number of non-core and sub-scale capital for many years as a tool in businesses has acted to reduce the running of our business, but the management stretch risks.
Our Solvency II rules do introduce a new increasing use of capital-lite additional material provision, the risk strategies for longevity and credit margin, intended to provide further risk also acts to transfer some of capital for the orderly wind down our balance sheet risks to selected of insurance business.
This margin strongly rated counterparties.
Simon, a lot has been happening creates more inherent volatility to be over the last 12 months.
Has this Solvency II came into operation on managed in the Solvency II balance changed the groups risk prole?
What is the impact of the sheet than the underlying economic new regime on Legal & General?
Whilst we have done a lot this position would dictate and greater year, including writing our first US volatility than under the previous Obviously the main change under and European pension risk transfer capital regime.
Solvency II is that the group will deals, building our portfolio of direct now use a risk-based capital model, Finally, what are the key risks investments and continuing to known as an internal model, to on your radar for 2016?
grow our scale businesses, our risk calculate regulatory capital landscape still predominantly reects: 2016 has already seen a period requirements.
Solvency II, however, of volatility on the financial markets, Longevity, mortality, morbidity also introduces other regulations and the economic outlook is looking and household insurance risks covering the design of our risk less positive than six months ago.
transferred to us by customers management framework, internal Although we have now implemented of our annuities, protection and control systems and remuneration Solvency II, there continue to be general insurance businesses policies.
We have been preparing regulatory and legislative changes for the Solvency II regime for the last Investment risks, from holding which can lead to uncertainty in our six years, ensuring that our business portfolios of assets to meet our operating environments and the practices are aligned with the new obligations to our customers and forthcoming EU referendum is likely rules so in practice many changes are to deliver returns to shareholders to further unsettle financial markets.
incremental, and we have realigned Operational risks in respect of Cyber threats also continue to be a our strategies to optimise risk-based our business processes and IT risk for the financial services sector capital requirements as the rules systems, as well as broader as a whole.
Solvency II, regulatory and legislative risks however, is fundamentally a new We monitor new and emerging risks that can arise in the environments regime and there will inevitably be to ensure we have appropriate in which we operate further developments as regulatory responses and that our exposures understanding of its practical remain within acceptable tolerances.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 43 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT Our business is to manage risks We summarise below our core risk exposures and our risk management approach.
Our risk landscape Our risk management Our risk appetite framework We are exposed to longevity, We have clearly dened mortality, morbidity and Our structure of formal risk quantitative and qualitative household insurance risks policies, reporting procedures expressions for the types from the products we write: and risk oversight activities, of risk that we are prepared market and credit risks from is designed to enable us to to be exposed to in pursuit the investments and select those risks that can give of our business strategy, reinsurance contracts we us sustainable returns and to the minimum capital hold to meet our obligations: closely manage those risks requirements that we wish and operational and liquidity that are unrewarded, and to to maintain and the degree risks from the environments optimise the capital that we of volatility of earnings that in which we operate.
hold so that we can deliver we will seek to avoid.
information is provided on page 44.
Our risk-based capital model Our principal risks and uncertainties FURTHER DETAIL We assess on an ongoing basis Detailed information can be found the capital that we need to An assessment of principal in our risk supplement.
Please visit: hold above our liabilities risks and uncertainties along www.
com reporting-centre supplements to meet the groups strategic with the associated trends objectives and ensure and outlooks, and the steps In prior years, within this section, we have continued solvency.
we take in mitigation is on included descriptions of the risks we face, how our risk management framework pages 46 and 47.
Our model seeks to measure operates, as well as a narrative description of our appetite in relation to our main risk by business line and risk type, A more detailed review of areas.
As our risk management processes the capital we assess as being the groups inherent risk and policies are well established, the reality required to survive a worse exposures and high level is that these descriptions do not signicantly change from year to year.
Accordingly, case 1-in-200 year event, taking control processes are set out we have created a Risk management account of correlations at notes 8, 17, and 43 of the supplement that contains all of these between risks.
narrative descriptions, which can be found within our Corporate Reporting Centre.
|| L LE EG GA AL & G L & GE EN NE ER RA AL G L GR RO OU UP P P PL LC C A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T A AN ND AC D ACC CO OU UN NT TS S 2 20 015 15 44 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT Focus on risk appetite ENSURING RISK APPETITE IS AT THE HEART OF OUR DECISION MAKING Our risk appetite sets the ranges Further information on our appetite and limits of acceptable risk taking for specic risks can be found in Our risk appetite is used to govern the nature and quantity of risks that we are for the group as a whole.
We express the Risk management supplement: exposed to.
Whether we are making a our overall attitude to risk using the www.
com direct property investment or pricing a following statements and measures.
reporting-centre supplements pension risk transfer deal, we will use our risk appetite framework to assess the risk prole and potential rewards to ensure we Focus Measure continue to operate within the ranges of acceptable risk taking that we have set.
Strategy: We manage a diversied Minimum return on equity over portfolio in which we accept risk in the the planning cycle.
The Group Risk Committee leads an annual normal course of business and aim to review of the groups risk appetite, and the key measures and tolerances used to deliver sustainable returns on risk based assess risk.
The Group Risk Committee, capital in excess of cost of capital.
as part of the annual planning cycle, also considers the level of risk taking proposed in the group plan relative to the groups overall risk appetite and capacity to Strategy: We have an appetite for risks Maximum economic capital to be take risk.
we understand and are rewarded for, deployed over the planning cycle.
The groups risk appetite is approved and which are consistent with delivery annually by the Group Board and the of our strategic objectives.
regular management information received by Group Board and Group Risk Committee includes our risk appetite dashboard setting out actual positions relative to the key Capital: We aim to maintain an Minimum statutory and economic targets and limits set in our risk appetite.
appropriate buffer of capital resources capital coverage ratios.
We cascade the parameters of our risk over the minimum regulatory and appetite to our business managers through economic capital requirements.
Risk and Capital Mandates, empowering them to make decisions that are consistent with our overall appetite for risk.
Earnings: We have a low appetite Maximum acceptable variance The mandates articulate the products that for volatility of earnings: in particular in earnings to plan over the may be written: the assets classes that volatility arising from risks where planning cycle.
may be held: the target capital positions and ranges of earnings volatility within Legal & General has more exposure which the overall prole of risks should than the wider market.
be managed: and tolerances for specic risk exposures.
Activities that would result in a business operating outside agreed parameters require formal approval from Customer: We treat our customers Customer and reputation the group centre.
with integrity and act in a manner risk dashboard.
The group chief risk officer oversees that protects or enhances the group the overall operation of our risk appetite franchise.
framework, providing an annual review to the Group Risk Committee.
Liquidity: We expect to be able to meet Minimum liquidity coverage ratio.
our payment and collateral obligations under extreme, but plausible, liquidity scenarios.
Focus on risk-based capital The key output from our capital below.
Market risk, which includes model is the generation of capital equity, spread and interest rate Our risk-based capital model seeks requirements calculated on an risks, are also more material risks to provide a quantitative assessment economic basis.
We calibrate our for which we hold capital.
of the groups risk exposures.
It model to a 99.5% value at risk forms part of the suite of tools that Bond default confidence level over one year, we use to evaluate our strategic equivalent to ensuring that we hold The capital requirement for credit plans, set risk appetite, allocate sufficient capital to survive our risk reects that the issuers of capital and evaluate product pricing.
assessment of a worse case bonds could default on their We also use our model to assess 1-in-200 year event.
In terms obligations to us.
We actively significant transactions, including of capital requirement, credit manage our bond portfolio to large pension risk transfer deals.
and longevity risks are our most mitigate the risk, however, residual significant risks.
We discuss these risk remains that in very extreme | LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 45 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT conditions a systematic default ALIGNING RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT event could result in the failure of even strongly rated issuers of debt.
Legal & Generals Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA is our ongoing analysis Longevity of the groups risk prole and the sufciency of capital resources to sustain the business Our capital requirement reects strategy over the plan horizon.
that annuitant life expectancy The process, which covers the whole group, may improve faster than our includes: consideration of how the nature of assumptions.
We undertake the risks to which we are exposed may evolve over the planning cycle: the impacts on our extensive analysis of trends in risk prole of a range of more extreme Risk prole life expectancy to ensure that stresses and scenarios: and the consequential Credit risk Operational risk our assessment of future rates impacts on the solvency position.
Market risk Miscellaneous of mortality remains appropriate.
The ORSA process is integrated into our Insurance risk However, as set out on page 46, business risk and capital management a dramatic advance in medical activities and aligned with the strategic Miscellaneous includes non-internal planning process to inform forward looking model rms and pension scheme science could improve the life capital requirements decision-making.
As such, it is a key business expectancy in our annuity portfolio.
management tool for the group.
Group Board viability statement The business plan includes a number This three year assessment is of assumptions in line with the overall based upon the business plan, The Directors confirm that they have group strategy including: which is underpinned by the groups a reasonable expectation that the strategy and principal risks detailed i Gr owth in the international asset group will continue in operation and on pages 46 and 47, respectively.
management and insurance meet its liabilities, as they fall due, The business plan is built from the businesses over the next three years.
The Directors ground up on a divisional basis and make this assessment with reference ii Op timisation of capital strategies the Directors use the plan to assess to the current position and potential for Solvency II the prospects of the group through impact of principal risks together with iii Continued focus on core business the strategic planning process.
The the groups strategy, the risk appetite activities and decluttering the strategic planning process includes of the Board and the processes and non-core activities an annual review of the ongoing controls in place to mitigate the The business plan represents the plan with full Board participation principal risks and uncertainties Boards best estimate of the groups as part of the Group Board Strategy as detailed in this Strategic Report future prospects.
Part of the Boards role is to and below.
testing, including consideration of the consider whether the plan continues The Directors note that the group is principal risks and uncertainties, is to be reective of changes in subject to the Prudential Regulatory carried out on the plan as part of the macroeconomic trends.
The Regime for Insurance Groups which groups Own Risk and Solvency latest annual review process was monitors the groups compliance with Assessment ORSA see chart above.
conducted in January 2016 which Solvency Capital Requirements.
Whilst The results of the ORSA have been resulted in the detailed business the Directors have no reason to believe submitted to the groups prudential plan for 2016 to 2020. that the group will not be viable over regulator, the PRA.
These stresses The business plan includes detailed a longer period, given the inherent included a prolonged period of weak financial information across all of uncertainty which increases as longer economic growth, deation, disorderly the groups key metrics including the time-frames are considered, the defaults in geographic regions and other ongoing regulatory capital position.
Directors consider three years to be geopolitical events.
The results of these The Board receives regular updates an appropriate time-frame upon which stresses showed that the group would from the business units and risk they can report with a reasonable be able to withstand the impact over committees in the normal course degree of confidence.
Although a three the forecast plan period and could of business to perform ongoing year time-frame has been selected further improve the position by making monitoring of performance across all for this statement, the group, as with adjustments in its operating activity metrics and to consider changes in any insurance group, has certain in the normal course of business.
policyholder liabilities in excess of three years and therefore performs planning, stress and scenario testing on timeframes in excess of the three year period including the groups business plan and other longer-term outlooks.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 46 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT Principal risks and uncertainties The directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The principal risks are set out below including details of how they have been managed or mitigated.
Further details of the groups inherent risk exposures are set out at Notes 8, 17, and 43 of the financial statements.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES TREND AND OUTLOOK MITIGATION Reserves for long-term business may We regularly appraise the assumptions We undertake significant analysis of longevity require revision as a result of changes underpinning the business that we write.
and mortality risks to ensure an appropriate in experience, regulation or legislation.
In our annuities business we are, however, premium is charged for the risks we take The writing of long-term insurance business exposed to factors such as dramatic advances on and that our reserves remain appropriate.
requires the setting of assumptions for in medical science beyond those anticipated We remain focused on developing a long-term trends in factors such as mortality, leading to unexpected changes in life comprehensive understanding of annuitant lapse rates and persistency, valuation expectancy.
In protection business we remain mortality and we continue to evolve and interest rates, expenses and credit defaults.
inherently exposed to rates of mortality develop our underwriting capabilities.
Actual experience may result in the need diverging from assumptions and to loss from Our risk based capital model also takes to recalibrate these assumptions reducing events that cause widespread mortality account of unanticipated rates of mortality profitability.
Forced changes in reserves morbidity or significant policy lapse rates.
improvements in determining our prudential can also be required because of regulatory There is also potential for legislative capital requirement.
The sensitivities of our or legislative intervention in the way that intervention in the pricing of insurance business to a range of scenarios are set products are priced, reducing profitability products irrespective of risk factors, such out on page 156 note 20. and future earnings.
Investment market performance or Ongoing uncertainty in the global economic We model our business plans across a broad conditions in the broader economy outlook is expected to cause continued volatility range of economic scenarios and take account may adversely impact our earnings in financial markets as they respond to falling of alternative economic outlooks within our and profitability.
growth rates in emerging economies and overall business strategy.
Our ORSA process The performance and liquidity of investment speculation to future monetary policies, with plays an integral part in our business planning markets, interest rate movements and potential for more disruptive asset price shifts ensuring a clear link between capital ination impact the value of investments we should markets reappraise the degree to which sufciency and the nature of risks to which hold in shareholders funds and those to meet a further deterioration in the outlook has been we may be exposed.
As set out within the the obligations from insurance business, with priced into asset values.
Current illiquidity in Strategic Report on pages 6 to 13, we have the movement in certain investments directly bond markets could exaggerate the impacts sought to ensure focus upon those market impacting profitability.
Interest rate of a significant market correction further segments that we expect to be resilient in movement and ination can also change the depressing asset prices.
Whilst the international projected conditions.
For example, investing value of our obligations.
We use a range of impact of a euro default has diminished, there our long-term funds into real assets provides techniques to manage mismatches between also remains potential for renewed financial both enhanced returns to our slow money assets and liabilities.
However, loss can still stress in Europe driven by political uncertainty, and reduces exposure to the volatilities of arise from adverse markets.
In addition, as well as from geo-political events.
Sensitivities to significant falls in investment values can referendum on UK membership of the interest rates, exposure to worldwide equity reduce fee income to our investment European Union also has potential to increase markets and currencies are set out on page 156 management business, while broader financial market volatility as markets speculate note 20, page 140 note 16i and page 142 economic conditions can impact the purchase on the impact of potential outcomes.
and the retention of retail financial services products, impacting profitability.
In dealing with issuers of debt and other The current economic outlook inherently We actively manage our exposure to default types of counterparty the group is increases the risk of default by some issuers risks, setting counterparty selection criteria and exposed to the risk of financial loss.
of bonds, and recent months have seen a exposure limits, and using the capabilities of A systemic default event within the corporate widening of credit spreads, with high yield LGIMs credit management team to ensure risks sector, or a major sovereign debt event, could markets showing particular signs of stress.
in our bond portfolio are effectively controlled, result in dislocation of bond markets, There remain, however, a range of factors that and if appropriate traded out.
Alongside holding signicantly widening credit spreads with could lead to more widespread stress in bond reserves for our assessment of default, we consequential impacts on the value of our bond markets as a whole resulting in reduced continue to diversify the asset classes backing portfolios, and may result in default of even profitability or financial loss to the group.
our annuities business, investing in real assets strongly rated issuers of debt, exposing us to Such factors include a significant deterioration and property lending investments.
We are also exposed to banking, in global economic conditions or a banking capital-lite strategy for bulk annuities will money market and reinsurance counterparties, crisis.
An economic shock or significant increase our counterparty risk exposure, we and settlement, custody and other bespoke change in the current economic outlook may continue to be selective in the counterparties business services, a failure of which could also increase potential for a supplier of with which we will deal.
Exposures to credit risk expose us to both financial loss and operational business services being unable to meet their are on page 144 note 17 and sensitivities to disruption of our business processes.
changes in credit spreads on page 156 note 20.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 47 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES TREND AND OUTLOOK MITIGATION A material failure in our business Our plans for growth together with the Our risk governance model seeks to ensure processes may result in unanticipated regulatory change agenda will inherently that business management are actively financial loss or reputation damage.
increase the prole of operational risks across engaged in maintaining an appropriate We have constructed our framework of our businesses.
We continue to invest in our control environment, supported by risk internal controls to minimise the risk of system capabilities and business processes functions led by the group chief risk officer, unanticipated financial loss or damage to our to ensure that we meet the expectations of our with independent assurance from Group reputation.
However, no system of internal customers: comply with regulatory, legal and Internal Audit.
The work of the Group Audit control can completely eliminate the risk of financial reporting requirements: and mitigate Committee in the review of the internal error, financial loss, fraudulent actions or the risks of loss or reputational damage from control system is set out on page 62. reputational damage.
Changes in regulation or legislation may Although the Solvency II regime came into We are supportive of regulation in the markets have a detrimental effect on our strategy.
operation on 1 January 2016, there continues where we operate where it ensures trust and Legislation and government scal policy to be a significant pipeline of other regulatory confidence and can be a positive force on inuence our product design, the period change.
EU driven regulation includes UCITS business.
We remain, however, vigilant to of retention of products and our required V, MiFID II and PRIIPs, as well as various new the risk that future legislative and regulatory reserves for future liabilities.
Within the US, a new statutory change may have unintended consequences defines the overall framework for the design, reserving regime, Principle Based Reserves for the sectors in which we operate.
We seek marketing, taxation and distribution of our PBR, will come into operation in January to actively participate with government and products: and the prudential capital that 2017.
In the UK, alongside the PRA ensuring regulatory bodies in the UK and Europe to we hold.
significant changes in legislation the effective operation of the Solvency II assist in the evaluation of change so as to or regulation may increase our cost base, regime and an ongoing requirement upon develop outcomes that meet the needs of all reduce our future revenues and impact Legal & General to ensure compliance with stakeholders, and have actively participated profitability or require us to hold more capital.
the new regulatory framework, the FCA in the Financial Advice Market Review, the The prominence of the risk increases where continues to develop its approach to Capital Markets Review and various tax change is implemented without prior consumer regulation, and there remain consultations.
Internally, we evaluate the engagement with the sector.
The nature challenges in ensuring that regulatory impact of all legislative and regulatory change of long-term business can also result in interpretation of rules is proportionate and as part of our formal risk identication and some changes in regulation, and the cost effective for the insurance sector, and assessment processes, with material matters re-interpretation of regulation over time, aligns with the industry as businesses being considered at the Group Risk Committee having a retrospective effect on our in-force become increasingly digitalised.
The FCA and the Group Board.
Our internal control books of business, impacting the value of programme of thematic reviews of industry framework includes processes that seek to embedded future profits.
practices may also lead to additional business ensure ongoing compliance with relevant remediation costs.
More broadly, we continue legislation and regulation.
We cannot, to see legislative and regulatory change however, completely eliminate the risks that particularly in relation to the UK pensions controls processes may fail or that historic market, and in the applicable tax framework accepted practices may be reappraised including as a result of devolution and by regulators.
implementation of the OECD BEPS recommendations.
New entrants may disrupt the landscape Customer facing businesses are becoming As set out on page 26, we are executing a of the markets in which we operate.
Huge structural strategy that has digital at its heart, using As has been seen other business sectors, changes have already changed the face of digital platforms that allow for globalisation it is possible that alternative digitally enabled travel, music, retail and media industries.
We have already delivered providers of financial service products emerge There is already strong competition in all online facilities for auto-enrolment, investment with lower cost business models or innovative our markets, and although we have had platforms and individual retirement products service propositions and capital structures considerable past success at building and continue to focus on ensuring that disrupting the current competitive landscape.
sufficient scale to offer low cost products it customer engagement is at the heart of the is possible that alternative providers emerge digital experience.
Weve a clear strategy, with with lower cost or new service models that the diversity and scale to expand organically present new challenges for our businesses.
The financial services sector is The financial services sector continues to Were focused on maintaining a robust increasingly becoming a target see attempts by third parties to seek and and secure IT environment.
Working with of cyber crime.
exploit perceived vulnerabilities in IT systems.
our business partners, we seek to ensure As we and our business partners increasingly Potential threats include denial of service the security of our systems with proactive digitalise our businesses, we are inherently attacks, network intrusions to steal data for responses to emerging threats.
However, exposed to the risk that third parties may seek the furtherance of financial crime, and the the evolving nature of cyber threats means to disrupt our online business operations, steal electronic diversion of funds.
that residual risks will remain.
During 2015 customer data or perpetrate acts of fraud the Group Board received an update using digital media.
A significant cyber event on cyber risks and our control framework.
could result in reputation damage and financial loss.
| LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 48 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Board of directors 50 Letter from the Chairman 52 Governance report 54 Nominations Committee report 60 Audit Committee report 62 Group Risk Committee report 66 Directors report on remuneration 68 | | L LE EG GA AL & G L & GE EN NE ER RA AL G L GR RO OU UP P P PL LC C A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T A AN ND AC D ACC CO OU UN NT TS S 2 20 015 15 49 GOVERNANCE A POSITIVE FUTURE FOR ALL Rachel is 40, but like many first time buyers, she was struggling to get on to the housing ladder.
In May 2014, she managed to buy a one-bedroom apartment in Plymouths Quadrant Quay, a development funded by our long-term direct investments into UK infrastructure projects.
Rachel told us how shes lived with her family in Plymouth all her life and was amazed to see how the Millbay area has been transformed into a safe, family-friendly environment, with fantastic views from my apartment and shops and restaurants right on my doorstep.
FURTHER DETAIL ON OUR INVESTMENTS www.
com 2015fastread || L LE EG GA AL & G L & GE EN NE ER RA AL G L GR RO OU UP P P PL LC C A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T A AN ND AC D ACC CO OU UN NT TS S 2 20 015 15
