Risk management Risk management continued EMERGING RISKS The Group considers the following to be risks that have the potential to increase in significance and affect the performance of the Group.
These risks are considered alongside the Groups operating plan.
Risk Key mitigating actions Regulatory and legal change: The pace and volume of regulatory Continue to implement our conduct strategy ensuring the customer and legal change and developments including: competition: pensions: is at the heart of our business planning whilst working closely with capital requirements: payments: accounting standards changes: Senior regulatory authorities and industry bodies to ensure that the Group Managers and Certification Regime SM&CR : and consumer protection can identify and respond to the evolving regulatory landscape.
laws, all have the potential to impact the delivery of our strategic Programmes in place to deliver SM&CR by March 2016 implementation objectives.
and ring-fencing and resolution by January 2019.
Low interest rate environment: Continuation of the present low Regular reviews and updates to strategic milestones provide interest rate environment has the potential to negatively impact the opportunity to reposition and reprioritise to minimise and negate delivery of the Groups strategic and operational objectives.
there may be a requirement to review our cost and investment priorities.
Response to market changes agility : The dynamic nature of external Organisational and behavioural effectiveness is reviewed through influences has the potential to impact the delivery of the strategy and risk regular Group Strategic Reviews, ensuring the continued drive for profile of the Group.
As technology advances, the typical banking model simplicity and efficiency, and the building of new capabilities to is evolving, and as such, operational complexity has the potential to support sustainable growth.
restrict the Groups speed of response.
Sustained and continuing investment in digital capability and customer channels with our plans progressively updated to reflect market trends and customer behaviour.
Conduct risk: In a low growth environment we cannot compromise on Rigorous implementation of our conduct strategy with customer needs our Conduct Strategy for revenue growth.
Further provisions for legacy at the centre rather than a product driven model.
issues may be required if issues emerge which require remediation.
Programmes in place to deliver redress to customers with Groupwide rectification governance in place to enhance effectiveness.
Data integrity, IT and cyber: Cyber remains an evolving threat to the Delivery of the Group cyber control framework, aligned to Group and its strategic objectives.
Increased digital interconnectivity industry-recognised cyber security framework, and continued across the Group, its customers and suppliers has the potential to investment in the Groups Cyber Programme to ensure integrity heighten our vulnerability to cyber-attacks, which could disrupt service of key systems and processes remains a priority.
for customers, and cause financial loss and reputational damage.
Resilience programmes in place to protect the integrity and availability of the Groups systems and mitigate the impacts of cyber-attacks.
Market liquidity: Financial markets continue to exhibit signs of a lack Market liquidity is reviewed on a regular basis through specific of liquidity and potential impacts include the speed at which structural committees which approve funding plans, based on detailed analysis hedging can be undertaken and relevant asset portfolio liquidated.
to ensure regulatory compliance and future liquidity requirements are satisfied.
Ring-fencing and resolution: UK ring-fencing legislation, regulation and Engagement with relevant governmental and regulatory bodies rules impact the Groups business and operating model and could impact and other agencies to deliver compliance by January 2019. the ability to, and cost of, serving customers effectively to a greater extent Business model design will optimise delivery of the full range than current assumptions, with potential changes in the competitive of services to ring-fenced Bank customers through the provision landscape and changes to customer and market behaviour.
of certain propositions from Group entities outside the ring-fence.
Leveraging data: Increasing regulatory scrutiny under EU Data Assessment of the possible impacts of legislation is ongoing Protection Regulation may limit the extent to which customer data can and the Group expects to deliver enhanced systems to fulfil related be used to support the Group in achieving its strategic objectives.
Chief Data Officer reviewing Groupwide operating model and aligning the Groups appetite appropriately.
UK political uncertainty: An EU in-out referendum has been called for The Group will monitor and assess the potential impacts on an the 23June 2016.
In the event that the referendum outcome determines on-going basis, manage exposures according to its current risk an exit from the EU, there may be an impact on UK trade, the domestic appetite and continue to review our existing contingency plans economy and inward investment and, in the short term, the potential for for market volatility before and after the referendum.
Geopolitical shocks: Current uncertainties could further impede Current risk appetite criteria limits single counterparty bank and the global economic recovery and adjustment from a period of non-bank exposures complemented by a UK-focused strategy.
Events in China, Russia and the The Groups Financial Stability Forum is in place to develop and Middle-East, as well as terrorist activity, have the potential to trigger maintain the Groups Stability Response Plan, whilst also acting changes in market risk pricing which could lead to rising funding costs.
as a Rapid Reaction Group, meeting when external crises occur.
