Strategic report Risk overview Achievements in 2015 Effective risk management, We have continued our strategic journey and created a governance and control foundation to deliver our objectives, through reacting to changing customer behaviour, maintaining our strong capital position and increasing dividend payments, whilst continuing to adapt to the ever changing regulatory environment.
Close How we manage risk is a fundamental part of our strategy.
and collaborative working across the Group within risk culture Weoperate as a simple, low risk, UK focused, retail and and appetite has supported key risk-related deliverables inthe commercial bank with a culture founded on a prudent year.
These included: through the cycle appetitefor risk.
Conduct Our approach to risk is founded on an effective control framework and a strong risk management culture which guides Deploying a consistent and relentless approach under the how our employees approach their work, the way they behave Group conduct strategy to ensure we deliver customer needs and the decisions they make.
Risk appetite, defined as the with an open and transparent culture.
amount and type of risk that we are prepared to seek, accept or tolerate, works in tandem with our strategy and is approved Credit rating by the Board.
Our risk appetite is then embedded within In recognition of the delivery of the Groups strategy, the policies, authorities and limits across the Group.
threemain credit rating agencies have either reaffirmed orupgraded our credit rating in the year.
Risk as a strategic differentiator Group strategy and risk appetite are developed together State aid commitments to ensure one informs the other and creates a strategy that We have satisfied all material structural and behavioural delivers on becoming the best bank for our customers commitments following the successful carve-out and disposal whilst helping Britain prosper and creating sustainable of TSB with respect to the State Aid commitments agreed growth over time.
withthe European Commission under the State Aid regime Risks are identified, managed and mitigated using our Risk in 2009.
We are therefore no longer subject to restrictive Management Framework see page 29.
The principal risks behavioural commitments including the constraint on we face, which could significantly impact the delivery of our acquisitions, but continue to be bound by two remaining strategy, are discussed on pages 30 to 33. limited ancillary commitments which means that we remain subject to supervision by the European Commission with We believe effective risk management can be a strategic respect to these commitments until they cease to have effect differentiator, in particular: on or before June 2017.
Our strong risk management has assisted in the governments continued sell-down of shares Sustainable growth toa holding which is approximately 9 per cent.
Embedding a risk culture that ensures proactive support and constructive challenge takes place across the business in order Capital strength to deliver sustainable growth.
We have maintained our strong capital position through acombination of increased underlying profit and lower Prudent approach to risk risk-weighted assets, partially offset by PPI and other conduct Implementing a prudent approach to risk appetite across the charges, which enabled the Group to pay both an interim Group, aligned to the embedding of a strong risk culture, dividend at half year and to recommend the payment of driven both from the top and across the wider business, both afull year ordinary dividend and a special dividend ensures we operate within risk appetite.
whilst maintaining strong capital ratios.
In 2015 the Group participated in the UK-wide concurrent stress testing run by Strong control framework the Bank of England, comfortably exceeding both the capital and leverage minimum thresholdsset.
The Groups Risk Management Framework RMF acts asthefoundation for the delivery of effective risk control Impairments andensures that the Group risk appetite is adhered to.
Through effective risk management our impairment charge Effective risk analysis, management has fallen to 568million, while the impairment ratio fell to 0.14percent.
Reduction in run-off assets and the sustained andreporting improvement in asset quality across the Group reflects our Close monitoring and stringent reporting to all levels of robust risk management framework which is ingrained across management and the Board ensures appetite limits are the entire business, as detailed on page 29. maintained and are subject to stressed analysis at a risk type and portfolio level.
Business focus and accountability Effective risk management is a key focus and is included in key performance measures against which individual business units are assessed.
The business areas in the first line are accountable for risk but with oversight from a strong and importantly, independent, Second Line Risk Division.
28 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Theframework is periodically reviewed, updated and approved Risk governance by the Board to reflect any changes in the nature of our business The Board approves the Groups overall RMF and sets risk and external regulations, law, corporate governance and industry appetite, both of which are designed to ensure that we bestpractice.
This helps us to ensure we continue to meet our manage our risks in the right way to achieve our agreed responsibilities to our customers, shareholders and regulators.
It has a dedicated risk committee Our risk appetite and the policy framework define clear of non-executive directors who keep the design and parameters within which our business units must operate in order performance of the Groups RMF under close and regular to deliver the best outcome for customers and stakeholders.
scrutiny, and interact closely with the executive risk The Board delegates authorities for risk management through management committee operating at Group Executive Committee level.
The Board and senior management the Group Chief Executive and the management hierarchy to individuals, an approach which is consistent with the focus of encourage a culture of transparency and openness to ensure that issues are escalated promptly to themwhere required.
theSenior Managers and Certification Regime SM&CR on the principle of individual accountability.
At a senior level, The Board approved RMF and risk appetite areput into effect executives are supported in their decision-making by a using an enterprise-wide framework which applies to every committee-based governance structure.
The concept of area of the business and covers all types ofrisk.
The framework individual accountability for risk management is embedded is designed to ensure we follow a consistent approach to risk in the RMF and culture at every level, and guides the way all management and reporting throughout the Group, so that all employees approach their work, behave and make decisions.
risks are fully understood andmanaged in relation to our An important element of the framework is the maintenance agreed risk appetite.
It includes our policies, procedures, of strong internal controls which are owned and operated controls and reporting.
The Groups risk governance Ahigh level structure is shown in the diagram below.
arrangements will support the effective implementation of the requirements of the SM&CR which comes into force in 2016.
Accountability for ensuring risk is Conrmation of the effectiveness of managed consistently with the Risk the Risk Framework and underlying Framework approved by the Board risk and control Setting risk appetite and strategy.
Approval Board Authorities Board of the risk management framework and Role Groupwide risk principles Review risk appetite, frameworks and Through Board-delegated Executive Senior principles to be recommended to the Board.
Authorities there is effective oversight of risk Management Be exemplars of risk management management consistent with risk appetite Role Determined by the Board and Senior The Risk Appetite Framework ensures Management.
Business units formulate their our risks are managed in line Risk appetite strategy in line with the Groups risk appetite with our risk appetite Supporting a consistent approach to Supports a consistent approach Groupwide behaviour and risk decision to enterprise-wide behaviour Governance frameworks making.
Consistency is delivered through the and decision making policy framework and risk committee structures Monitoring, oversight and assurance ensures Maintains a robust control framework, effective risk management across the Group identifying and escalating emerging risks Three Lines of Mandate of the and supporting sustainable growth defence model Risk Division Dened processes exist to Carried out by all three Risk identication, Risk monitoring, identify, measure and control lines of defence and is an measurement aggregation and our current and emerging risks integral part of our control and control reporting effectiveness assessment In line with our Codes of Processes and infrastructure Responsibility.
Culture ensures are being invested in to Resources and Culture performance, risk and reward further improve our risk capabilities are aligned management capabilities Risk-type specic Risk-specic needs dened in detail for implementation sub-frameworks Primary risk drivers by each business e. g. credit risk 29 Strategic report Risk overview continued This year we have added two new principal risks: The most significant risks we face which Insurance risk, reflecting that we are increasing our exposure to longevity could impact the delivery of our strategy, risk, following our entry into the bulk annuity market in 2015: and Governance risk, given increasing societal and regulatory focus on together with key mitigating actions, are governance arrangements.
All risks have the potential to impact our strategic priorities and the summary below illustrates the most predominant strategic priority impacted by the principal risks and uncertainties detailed.
PRINCIPAL RISKS KEY MITIGATING ACTIONS KEY RISK INDICATORS ALIGNMENT TO STRATEGIC PRIORITIES AND FUTURE FOCUS Credit policy, incorporating prudent lending criteria, aligned Delivering sustainable growth Credit risk Impairment charge withBoard approved risk appetite, to effectively manage risk.
The risk that customers to whom we have lent money or other We have a UK customer focused, low risk, conservative and well balanced credit portfolio, managed through 2015 568m Robust risk assessment and credit sanctioning, with clearly defined counterparties with whom we have contracted, fail to meet their theeconomic cycle and supported by strong credit portfolio management.
2014 1,102m levels of authority to ensure we lend appropriately and responsibly.
financialobligations, resulting in loss to the Group.
Credit risk decisions are consistent, fair and responsible, taking account of customers circumstances.
Extensive and thorough credit processes and controls to ensure Adverse changes in the economic and market environment we Impaired assets effective risk identification, management and oversight.
We support sustainable growth and meet our targets in the Helping Britain Prosper Plan while staying operatein or the credit quality and or behaviour of our customers withinprudent risk appetite.
2015 Effective, well-established governance process supported by 9,590m andcounterparties could reduce the value of our assets and potentially independent credit risk assurance.
2014 14,308m increase our write downs and allowances for impairment losses, Impairments remain below long term levels and are expected to normalise over adversely impacting profitability.
Early identification of signs of stress leading to prompt action time.
Emerging credit risks that have the potential to increase impairment include in engaging the customer.
the global and UK economic environment as it can impact customer and Example: counterparties affordability.
Whilst we have a deep understanding of credit risks across our commercial, mortgage and other portfolios: a changing economic environment, e. g. interest rate rises, can impact on customer affordability 121 and therefore our performance.
The Legal, Regulatory and Mandatory Change Committee ensures Legal, regulatory and Delivering sustainable growth Regulatory and legal risk we develop plans for delivery of all legal and regulatory changes and mandatory investment spend The risks of changing legislation, regulation, policies, voluntary codes of We are committed to operating sustainably and responsibly, and commit significant tracks their progress.
Groupwide projects implemented to address practice and their interpretation in the markets in which we operate can resource and expense to ensure we meet our legal and regulatory obligations.
have a significant impact on the Groups operations, business prospects, We respond as appropriate to impending legislation and regulation and associated 2014 406m Continued investment in people, processes, training and IT to assess structure, costs and or capital requirements and ability to enforce consultations and participate in industry bodies.
We continue to be subject to significant impact and help meet our legal and regulatory commitments.
ongoing and new legislation, regulation and court proceedings, with numerous Engage with regulatory authorities and relevant industry bodies Examples: developments in each of these areas.
on forthcoming regulatory changes, market reviews and Competition Increased regulatory oversight and Prudential regulatory requirements.
Increased legislative requirements, such as ring-fencing legislation.
Customer focused conduct strategy implemented to ensure FCA reportable complaints Creating the best customer experience Conduct risk 1 customers are at the heart of everything we do.
PPI Conduct risk can arise from a number of areas including selling As we transform and simplify our business, minimising conduct risk is critical to achieving Product approval, review processes and outcome testing supported products to customers which do not meet their needs: failing to our strategic goals and meeting market and regulatory standards.
Our customer focused 2015 1.9 by conduct management information.
deal with customers complaints effectively: not meeting customers conduct strategy forms the foundation of our vision to be the best bank for customers, 2014 1.5 Clear customer accountabilities for colleagues, with rewards driven expectations: and exhibiting behaviours which do not meet market allowing us to create the best customer experience through learning from past mistakes.
1 This key risk indicator is also Learning from past mistakes through root cause analysis of Example: a key performance indicator KPI.
The most significant conduct cost in recent years has been PPI mis-selling.
Continual review of our IT environment to ensure that systems Creating the best customer experience Availability of core systems Operational risk and processes can effectively support the delivery of services We face significant operational risks which may result in financial loss, We recognise the role that resilient technology plays in enabling us to create the best customer 2015 99.97% to customers.
disruption or damage to our reputation.
These include the availability, experience, and in maintaining banking services and trust across the wider industry.
As such, the 99.96% 2014 Addressing the observations and associated resilience risks raised resilience and security of our core IT systems and the potential for availability, resilience and security of our IT systems remains a key focus.
in the Independent IT Resilience Review 2013, with independent failingsin our customer processes.
Our Cyber Programme continues to focus on improving the Groupwide cyber security verification of progress on an annual basis.
Examples: controls and we regularly assess our cyber control environment, through both internal Investing in enhanced cyber controls to protect against external A resilient IT environment is critical to providing reliable services to and third party testing.
threats to the confidentiality or integrity of electronic data, or the customers and enabling sustainable growth.
Responding to findings from third party The dynamic threat posed by cyber risk and the potential for external industrytesting.
151 attacks on the integrity of electronic data or the availability of systems.
Focused action on strategy to attract, retain and develop high Creating the best customer experience People risk Best bank for customers index calibrepeople.
Key people risks include the risk that we fail to lead responsibly in an We continue to focus on developing colleagues, their capabilities and skills in order to create 2015 78% Maintain compliance with legal and regulatory requirements relating increasing competitive marketplace, particularly with the introduction the best customer experience and to respond quickly to the rapidly evolving change in 2014 72% to the SM&CR, embedding compliant and appropriate colleague of the SM&CR in 2016.
This may dissuade capable individuals from customers decision making.
takingup senior positions within the industry.
The current regulatory regime presents some far reaching people implications in terms Continued focus on our culture, delivering initiatives which reinforce Example: of personal accountability and remuneration arrangements.
This coincides with the ongoing behaviours to generate the best long-term outcomes for customers Lack of colleague capacity and capability could impact the achievement challenge of maintaining colleague capacity and capability to deliver our change agenda.
Additional colleague stretch including increased Maintain organisational people capability and capacity levels in dependency on key staff could result in a loss of expertise.
response to increasing volumes of organisational and external 167 market changes.
30 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 PRINCIPAL RISKS KEY MITIGATING ACTIONS KEY RISK INDICATORS ALIGNMENT TO STRATEGIC PRIORITIES AND FUTURE FOCUS Credit policy, incorporating prudent lending criteria, aligned Delivering sustainable growth Credit risk Impairment charge withBoard approved risk appetite, to effectively manage risk.
31 Strategic report Risk overview continued PRINCIPAL RISKS KEY MITIGATING ACTIONS KEY RISK INDICATORS ALIGNMENT TO STRATEGIC PRIORITIES AND FUTURE FOCUS Insurance processes on underwriting, claims management, pricing Insurance Life and Pensions Creating the best customer experience Insurance risk and product design seek to control exposure to these risks.
A team present value of new Key insurance risks within the Insurance business are longevity, We are committed to meeting the changing needs of customers by working to provide of longevity and bulk pricing experts has been built to support the business premiums persistency and property insurance.
Longevity risk is expected to a range of insurance products via multiple channels.
The focus is on creating the best new bulk annuity proposition.
increase with the 2015 entry into the bulk annuity market.
Longevity is also customer experience by helping customers protect themselves today whilst preparing 2015 9,460m The merits of longevity risk transfer and hedging solutions are regularly the key insurance risk in the Groups Defined Benefit Pension Schemes.
2014 8,601m reviewed for both the Insurance business and the Groups Defined Examples: Strategic growth initiatives within Insurance are developed and managed in line with Benefit Pension Schemes.
Insurance General Insurance Increases in life expectancy longevity beyond current assumptions a defined risk appetite, aligned to the Group risk appetite and strategy.
Property insurance exposure to accumulations of risk and possible will increase the cost of annuities and pension scheme benefits.
gross written premiums catastrophes is mitigated by a broad reinsurance programme.
Uncertain property insurance claims impact Insurance earnings and 2015 1,148m capital, e. g. extreme weather conditions, such as flooding, can result 2014 1,197m in high property damage claims.
1 A comprehensive capital management framework that sets and Common equity tier 1 ratio Delivering sustainable growth Capital risk monitors capital risk appetite using a number of key metrics.
2 The risk that we have a sub-optimal amount or quality of capital Ensuring we hold an appropriate level of capital to maintain financial resilience and market 2015 13.0% Close monitoring of capital and leverage ratios to ensure we or that capital is inefficiently deployed across the Group.
confidence, underpins our strategic objectives of supporting the UK economy and 2014 12.8% meet current and future regulatory requirements.
Example: Comprehensive stress testing analysis to evidence sufficient A worsening macroeconomic environment could lead to adverse Leverage ratio Looking ahead, the Basel Committee is continuing to review aspects of the regulatory levels of capital adequacy under various adverse scenarios.
financial performance, which could deplete capital resources and or capital framework, and the Bank of England has consulted on its approach for setting 2 2015 4.8% Accumulation of retained profits and managing dividend increase capital requirements due to a deterioration in customers minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities.
There is a risk that these 2014 4.9% policyappropriately.
could lead to higher capital requirements than we have anticipated in our strategic plans.
1 This key risk indicator is also 2 Ratios are post interim and recommended full year dividends and pro forma, reflecting dividend paid by Insurance in February 2016 in respect of 2015 earnings.
Holding a large portfolio of unencumbered LCR eligible liquid assets Regulatory liquidity Delivering sustainable growth Funding and liquidity risk to meet cash and collateral outflows and regulatory requirements and The risk that we have insufficient financial resources to meet our We maintain a strong funding position in line with our low risk strategy.
Our funding position 2015 123.4bn maintaining a further large pool of secondary assets that can be used commitments as they fall due, or can only secure them at excessive cost.
has been significantly strengthened in recent years and our loan to deposit ratio remains 3 2014 109.3bn to access central bank liquidity facilities.
Example: Undertaking daily monitoring against a number of market and Our funding and liquidity position is supported by a significant and stable Loan to deposit ratio Liquid assets are broadly equivalent to our total wholesale funding and thus provide Group-specific early warning indicators and regular stress tests.
A deterioration in either the Groups or the UKs a substantial buffer in the event of continued market dislocation.
2015 109% Maintaining a contingency funding plan detailing management credit rating, or a sudden and significant withdrawal of customer deposits, actions and strategies available in stressed conditions.
2014 107% There is a risk that our options to fund our balance sheet are reduced in future, or that the would adversely impact our funding and liquidity position.
cost of funding may increase which could impact our performance versus our strategic plans.
3 Individual liquidity adequacy standards eligible primary liquid assets.
Our response to the SM&CR is managed through a programme with N A Becoming simpler and more efficient Governance risk work streams addressing each of the major components.
Against a background of increased regulatory focus on governance and risk Ring-fencing requirements ensure we become simpler and continue to create the best A programme is in place to address the requirements of ring-fencing management, the most significant challenges arise from the SM&CR in customer experience, through providing further protection to core Retail and SME deposits, and resolution and we are in close and regular contact with regulators provide transparency on our operations and facilitate the options available in resolution.
force from March 2016 and the requirement to improve the resolvability of to develop plans for our anticipated operating and legal structures.
the Group and to ring-fence core UK financial services and activities from Resolution requirements are aimed at reducing the probability of failure and its impact Our aim is to ensure that evolving risk and governance arrangements January 2019. on customers should we fail through continuity of critical banking services, helping continue to be appropriate across the range of business in the Group Example: rebuild trust in the financial services sector.
in order to comply with regulatory objectives.
Non-compliance with or breaches of ring-fencing, resolution and SM&CR We already have a strong culture of ownership and accountability, and compliance with requirements will result in legal and regulatory consequences.
the SM&CR will enable us to further strengthen our ability to clearly demonstrate the responsibilities of Senior Managers and how these are discharged.
Structural hedge programmes have been implemented to manage Delivering sustainable growth Pension surplus Market risk liability margins and margin compression, and the Groups exposure The risk that our capital or earnings profile is affected by adverse market We manage our exposure to movements in market rates throughout the year, leading 736m 2015 to Bank Base Rate.
rates, in particular interest rates and credit spreads in the Banking us to promote low volatility earnings and offer a comprehensive customer proposition 2014 890m Equity and credit spread risks are inherent within Insurance products business and equity and credit spreads in the Insurance business and with market risk hedging strategies to support strategic aims, including delivering and are closely monitored to ensure they remain within risk appetite.
the Groups Defined Benefit Pension Schemes.
Where appropriate, asset liability matching is undertaken to Examples: Mitigating actions are implemented to reduce the impact of market movements, mitigate risk.
Earnings are impacted by our ability to forecast and model customer resulting in a stable capital position.
This allows us to more efficiently utilise available The allocation to credit assets has been increased and equity behaviour accurately and establish appropriate hedging strategies.
capital resources to deliver sustainable growth.
holdingsreduced within the Groups Defined Benefit Pension The Insurance business is exposed indirectly to equity and credit markets Schemes.
A hedging programme is also in place to minimise By reducing the volatility in the Groups Defined Benefit Pension Schemes through through the value of future management charges on policyholder funds.
exposure to nominal rates inflation.
hedging in 2014, we have taken a conservative approach to risk in line with our strategy.
Credit spread risk within the Insurance business primarily arises from Stress and scenario testing of Group risk exposures.
bonds and loans used to back annuities.
Credit spreads affect the value of the Groups Defined Benefit Pension Schemes liabilities.
32 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 PRINCIPAL RISKS KEY MITIGATING ACTIONS KEY RISK INDICATORS ALIGNMENT TO STRATEGIC PRIORITIES AND FUTURE FOCUS Insurance processes on underwriting, claims management, pricing Insurance Life and Pensions Creating the best customer experience Insurance risk and product design seek to control exposure to these risks.
166 1 A comprehensive capital management framework that sets and Common equity tier 1 ratio Delivering sustainable growth Capital risk monitors capital risk appetite using a number of key metrics.
160 Holding a large portfolio of unencumbered LCR eligible liquid assets Regulatory liquidity Delivering sustainable growth Funding and liquidity risk to meet cash and collateral outflows and regulatory requirements and The risk that we have insufficient financial resources to meet our We maintain a strong funding position in line with our low risk strategy.
153 Our response to the SM&CR is managed through a programme with N A Becoming simpler and more efficient Governance risk work streams addressing each of the major components.
169 Structural hedge programmes have been implemented to manage Delivering sustainable growth Pension surplus Market risk liability margins and margin compression, and the Groups exposure The risk that our capital or earnings profile is affected by adverse market We manage our exposure to movements in market rates throughout the year, leading 736m 2015 to Bank Base Rate.
144 33 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 FINANCIAL RESULTS Summary of Group results 35 Divisional results 42 Other financial information 52 Five year financial summary 54
