London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties OVERVIEW OF PRINCIPAL RISKS: Strategic Risks Financial Risks Operational Risks Global economy Market risk Technology Regulatory change Liquidity risk clearing Change management Competition Settlement and custodial risks clearing Investment Management operations Compliance Capital risk Investment Management consulting Transformation Security threats Reputation Brand Employees KEY: Risk Level Increasing Risk Level Static Risk Level Decreasing STRATEGIC RISKS Risks related to our strategy including the implementation of strategic initiatives and external threats to the achievement of our strategy.
The category also includes risks associated with reputation or brand values.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Global economy The widening geographical footprint of the Group has improved the As a diversified markets infrastructure business, we operate in a broad range geographical diversification of the Groups income streams.
The Group of equity, bond and derivative markets servicing clients who increasingly mitigates the FX translation exposure created by ownership of overseas seek global products and solutions.
If the global economy underperforms, businesses by matching, to the extent possible, the currency of the Groups lower activity in our markets may lead to lower fee revenue.
debt to the currency of its income streams.
This is supplemented by a programme of active hedging using derivative instruments.
Material The improving economic environment in the UK has had a positive impact foreign currency transactions relate mainly to M&A and dividend related on the Groups business, and has increased the activity on our Primary payments and are hedged as required by Policy.
Stronger economic data from the US has resulted in the first rate hike by the Fed in a decade and there is potential for further rate increases The Group performs regular analyses to monitor the markets and the next year, indicating potential for a more upbeat 2016 outlook.
There is, potential impacts on the business.
Activities include Key Risk Indicator however, currently considerable uncertainty in economic outlook and tracking, stress testing, and hedging.
We also monitor very closely the apparent growth could fail to materialise.
ongoing developments surrounding the UK referendum.
The outlook for the Eurozone improved somewhat towards the end of 2015, The Financial Risk Committee closely monitors and analyses multiple although growth remains fragile and deflationary headwinds still pose market stress scenarios and action plans in order to minimise any a risk to recovery and uncertainty over the future direction of Europe could impacts stemming from a potential deterioration of the macroeconomic also impact our European businesses.
The UK referendum on the future of environment.
The Group is well positioned to respond to variations in EU membership could add uncertainty in markets.
This could increase the client demand as a result of the outcome of the referendum.
level of market volatility with unpredictable impact on our business.
Group Treasury risk is monitored daily, is managed within the constraints As the number of possible scenarios facing the Group in the event of a of a Board approved policy by the Group Treasury team, and is overseen decision to leave following the referendum, is impossible to model today, by the Group Treasury Committee a sub-Committee of the Financial Risk we will closely monitor the situation and ensure proper and timely analysis Committee chaired by the CFO.
An update on Group Treasury risks and of the ramification of such a decision.
actions is provided monthly to the Financial Risk Committee and to each Board Risk Committee.
Ongoing geopolitical tensions continue to add uncertainty in the markets and may impact investors confidence.
The Group has appropriate contingency plans in place to ensure key operations are resilient.
Business Continuity Management BCM and crisis management procedures would be invoked to manage the response to an unexpected event.
For more information, see Market trends and our response, pages 1215, and Note 2 to the accounts: Financial Risk Management on pages 108112.
46 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Regulatory change Changes in the regulatory environment form a key input into our strategic The Group and its exchanges, other trading venues, clearing houses, index planning, including the impact on our growth strategies, both organic and administrators, central securities depositories, trade repository and other inorganic.
We monitor regulatory developments continually and engage regulated entities operate in areas that are highly regulated by governmental, directly with regulatory and governmental authorities at national, EU and competition and other regulatory bodies at European federal and national levels.
There is a range of measures which may impact our business directly or We continue to develop our relationships with the key political stakeholders, indirectly including MiFID MiFIR, EMIR, third country recognition, CSDR, the particularly at EU and national level.
Potential impacts from regulatory Benchmark Regulation, SFTR and BRRD.
In addition, the European Commission change are assessed and, depending on the impact, opportunities are published its Capital Markets Union Action Plan in September 2015, including developed and mitigating strategies and actions are planned.
proposals to amend the Prospectus Directive.
Revisions are designed to make it As the various regulatory initiatives progress, there will be greater certainty easier for companies to raise capital through the EU and lower associated costs.
about their likely final form.
The Group continues to focus on remaining well Regarding MiFID and MiFIR, the rule-making work for secondary legislation is positioned to respond to regulatory developments and further opportunities expected to complete in 2016.
Rule makers began discussing the possibility of exist for the Group to deliver solutions to help the market address the a 1-year delay to implementation from 3 January 2017, although the terms of a changing regulatory environment.
delay were not agreed by the end of 2015.
Implementation delay could impact revenue opportunities for the Group.
The Groups CCPs are actively engaged in the public debate on CCP capitalisation, the appropriate level of skin-in-the game in the risk waterfall, Negotiations also continue on a possible Financial Transaction Tax FTT.
general access and management of liquidity, the implications of capital During 2015, it again proved difficult for participating Member States to reach requirements on clearing members and level playing field when deeming agreement, and the proposed implementation of 1 January 2016 did not third country CCPs equivalent.
Negotiations are still pending however a FTT could adversely impact volumes in financial markets.
In 2016, the European Commission is planning to propose a framework for recovery and resolution of CCPs.
This work will be conducted in parallel with the development of international standards from CPMI-IOSCO.
This year, the European Commission is also expected to confirm the areas of EMIR that will be modified as part of the official review of the regulation.
The Basel III rules on capital requirements for banks exposure to CCPs and BCBS leverage ratio need to be adjusted to mitigate any impact on our CCP clearing volumes, with implications for the Groups revenues.
During 2016, secondary legislation setting out CSD requirements is expected to come into force.
CSDs will be required to apply for reauthorisation under the new CSDR regime within 6 months after entering into force of this secondary legislation.
ESMA delayed publishing draft secondary legislation containing the rules on settlement discipline during 2015.
Industry responses to the 2015 consultation requested a delay to the implementation of these rules, and the ESMA rule proposal is expected to include a transitional period of 18 to 24 months following the entry into force of the relevant secondary rules however this uncertainty adds to regulatory risk.
For more information on regulatory changes see Market trends and our response on pages 1215.
Competition Competitive markets are, by their very nature, dynamic, and the effects We operate in a highly competitive industry.
Continued consolidation has of competitor activity can never be fully mitigated.
Senior management fuelled competition including between groups in different geographical areas.
actively engages with clients and the Group undertakes constant market monitoring and period pricing revision to mitigate risks.
Commercial In our Capital Markets operations, there is a risk that competitors will initiatives are aligned with our major clients and this is complemented improve their products, pricing and technology in a way that erodes our by an ongoing focus on technology.
There is increasing competition for primary listings and capital raises from other global exchanges and regional centres.
The Groups track record of innovation and diversification ensures the Group offers best-in-class services with a global capability.
The Group is focused on In Post Trade Services, competition will continue to intensify as we see integrating acquisitions and delivering tangible synergies.
This is supported a shift towards open access and interoperability of CCPs and legislative by robust governance and programme management structures.
requirements for mandatory clearing of certain OTC derivative products.
While this may create new business opportunities for the Group, competitors We maintain a dedicated international marketing team who promote may respond more quickly to changing market conditions or develop the benefits of listing on our markets to international issuers, the global products that are preferred by customers.
advisory community and other stakeholders.
The Groups Information Services business faces competition from a variety of sources, notably from other venues that offer market data relating to securities that are traded on the Groups equity markets, as well as from index providers which offer indices and other benchmarking tools which compete with those offered by the Group.
Furthermore, if the Groups share of equity trading on its exchanges were to come under pressure, the Groups market data offering might be seen by current and prospective customers as being less valuable, which may adversely affect the Groups business, financial condition and operating results.
In Technology Services, there is intense competition across all activities and there are strong incumbents in some of our growth areas.
47 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties continued RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Compliance The Group continues to maintain systems and controls to mitigate There is a risk that one or more of the Groups entities may fail to comply compliance risk.
Compliance policies and procedures are regularly with the laws and regulatory requirements to which it is, or becomes, reviewed to ensure that Group entities and staff are compliant with subject.
In this event, the entity in question may be subject to censures, applicable laws and regulations and uphold our corporate standards.
fines and other regulatory or legal proceedings.
Staff are subject to mandatory compliance training.
Transformation The LSEG Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework ERMF ensures The Group is exposed to transformation risks risk of loss or failure resulting appropriate Risk Management across the Group, and the governance of from change transformation given the current levels of change and the enlarged Group is aligned and strengthened as appropriate.
The Group alignment activity taking place across the Group.
As part of the alignment performs regular reporting of change performance, including ongoing processes, the Group targets specific synergy deliveries.
A failure to successfully align the businesses of the Group may lead to an Each major initiative is overseen by a Steering Committee which monitors increased cost base without a commensurate increase in revenue: a failure the associated risks closely and is typically chaired by the Chief Financial to capture future product and market opportunities: and risks in respect Officer or the Director of Corporate Strategy and includes Executive of capital requirements, regulatory relationships and management time.
Regular reports are submitted to the Executive Committee, the Board Risk Committee and the Board.
The additional work related to M&A and alignment activities could have an adverse impact on the Groups day-to-day performance and or key strategic initiatives which could damage the Groups reputation.
The size and complexity of the recent acquisitions and the recent merger proposal have increased the Groups change management and transformation risks.
However, it has also increased its opportunities to compete on a global scale.
Reputation Brand LSEG has policies and procedures in place which are designed to ensure A number of the Groups businesses have iconic national brands that are the appropriate usage of the Groups brands and to maintain the integrity well-recognised at international as well as at national levels.
The strong of the Groups reputation.
reputation of the Groups businesses and their valuable brand names LSEG actively monitors the usage of its brands and other Intellectual are a key competitive strength.
Any events or actions that damage the Property in order to prevent or identify and address any infringements.
reputation or brands of the Group could adversely affect its business, The Group protects its Intellectual Property by relying upon a combination financial condition and operating results.
of trade mark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, Failure to protect the Groups Intellectual Property rights adequately could confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with result in costs for the Group, negatively impact the Groups reputation and its affiliates, clients, customers, suppliers, strategic partners and others.
affect the ability of the Group to compete effectively.
Further, defending or enforcing the Groups Intellectual Property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, which could adversely affect the Groups business, financial condition and operating results.
48 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties FINANCIAL RISKS The risk of financial failure, reputational loss, loss of earnings and or capital as a result of investment activity, lack of liquidity, funding or capital, and or the inappropriate recording, reporting and disclosure of financial results, taxation or regulatory information.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Market risk This is managed via a programme of monitoring and of hedging where Non-Clearing desired via foreign exchange trades or cross-currency swaps.
Foreign Exchange Risk The risk is monitored closely and managed through a combination of local The broader geographical footprint of the Group has increased the operating company treasury units and a central Group Treasury function.
complexity of foreign exchange risk.
All our CCPs are compliant with the appropriate regulatory requirements Interest Rate Risk regarding margin calculations, capital and default rules.
Interest rate risk arises through the Groups borrowings and the Groups treasury investment activities.
Under the ERMF, CCP latent market risk must be managed in compliance with the Group CCP Financial Risk Policy as well as policies of the CCPs themselves.
Clearing The Groups clearing providers assume the counterparty risk for all There has been a very significant strengthening of CCP members transactions that are cleared through their markets.
In the event of default balance sheets over recent years, reducing the risk to LSEG CCPs of their clearing members, therefore, credit risk will manifest itself as of a member default.
The banks own recovery and resolution plans market risk.
As this market risk is only present in the event of default this also provide a degree of protection to the CCP in the event of a bank is referred to as latent market risk.
This risk is greater if market conditions becoming troubled.
The financial risks associated with clearing are unfavourable at the time of the default.
operations are further mitigated by: Our clearing services guarantee final settlement of trades and manage Strict CCP membership rules including supervisory capital, technical counterparty risk for a range of assets and instruments including cash and organisational criteria equities, derivatives, energy products, agricultural derivatives, interbank The maintenance of prudent levels of margin and default funds to cover collateralised money loans and government bonds.
The latent market exposures to participants.
Each member deposits margins, computed risk therefore includes interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, equity at least daily, to cover the theoretical costs which the clearing service risk and commodity price risk as well as country risk, issuer risk and would incur in order to close out open positions in the event of the concentration risk.
Clearing members also contribute to default funds Default by a clearing member could adversely affect the Group CCPs Regular Fire Drills are carried out to test the operational soundness revenues and its customers goodwill and, in extreme circumstances, of the CCPs default management processes with certain clearing providers, could lead to a call on the Group CCPs own capital.
A centralised risk oversight dashboard with associated VaR model has been implemented by LSEG, covering key clearing services.
This model In addition, certain CCPs within the Group have interoperability margin consolidates the underlying risk by member across the services in arrangements with other counterparties requiring collateral to be exchanged the engine, enabling LSEG to assess cumulative counterparty risks in proportion to the value of the underlying transactions involved.
This information is consolidated with CCP liquidity relevant clearing provider entities within the Group are therefore exposed management balances and is available daily to the Executive Committee to the risk of a default of such counterparties under such arrangements.
and Board, including limits and RAG ratings.
Committees overseeing latent market and member risks meet on a regular basis.
49 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties continued RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Liquidity risk clearing Group CCPs have put in place regulatory compliant liquidity plans for There are 2 distinct types of risk commonly referred to as liquidity risk day-to-day liquidity management, including contingencies for stressed market liquidity risk and funding liquidity risk.
The former is the risk that conditions.
Group CCPs have multiple layers of defence against liquidity it may be difficult or expensive to liquidate a large or concentrated position.
shortfalls including: intraday margin calls, minimum cash balances, The latter is the risk that the CCP may not have enough cash to pay for access to contingent liquidity arrangements, and, for certain CCPs, physically settled securities delivered by a non-defaulter that cannot be access to central bank liquidity.
Under the ERMF, CCP investments must be made in compliance with The Group CCPs collect clearing members margin and or default funds the Group CCP Financial Risk Policy as well as the Policies of the CCPs contributions in cash and or in highly liquid securities.
These Policies stipulate a number of Risk Management sufficient ongoing liquidity and immediate access to funds, the Group standards including investment limits secured and unsecured and CCPs deposit the cash received in highly liquid and secure investments, liquidity coverage ratios.
Committees overseeing CCP investment risk such as sovereign bonds and reverse repos, as mandated under EMIR: meet regularly.
securities deposited by clearing members are therefore held in dedicated Each CCP monitors its liquidity needs daily under stressed and accounts with CSDs and or ICSDs.
The Group CCPs also hold a small unstressed assumptions and reports to the Group Financial Risk proportion of their investments in unsecured bank and money market Committee each month.
The successful operation of these investment activities is contingent on general market conditions and there is no guarantee CCP counterparty risk including liquidity management balances and that such investments may be exempt from market losses.
counterparty disintermediation risk is consolidated daily at the Group level and reported to the Executive Committee, including limits and Furthermore, there is a risk that a counterparty default could lead to losses status rating.
Such a loss may occur due to the default of an issuer of bonds in which funds may be invested or the default of a bank in which funds are deposited.
The Group CCPs manage their exposure to credit and concentration risks arising from such investments by maintaining a diversified portfolio of high quality issuers and of banking counterparties.
The Group relies on established policies with minimum counterparty credit criteria, instructions, rules and regulations, as well as procedures specifically designed to actively manage and mitigate credit risks.
There is no assurance, however, that these measures will be sufficient to protect the Groups CCPs from a counterparty default.
Settlement and custodial risks clearing Counterparty risk is mitigated through pre-positioning availability The Groups CCPs are exposed to operational risks associated with clearing of security and pre-funding availability of cash.
transactions and the management of collateral, particularly where there Operational risk is minimised via highly automated processes reducing are manual processes and controls.
While the Groups CCPs have in place administrative activities while formalising procedures for all services.
procedures and controls to prevent failures of these processes, and to The Central Securities Depository CSD mitigates IT risks by providing mitigate the impact of any such failures, any operational error could have for redundancy of systems, daily backup of data, fully updated remote a material adverse effect on the Groups reputation, business, financial recovery sites and SLAs with outsourcers.
Liquidity for CSD operations condition and operating results.
is provided by the Bank of Italy.
In addition, the Group provides routing, netting and settlement services to ensure that cash and securities are exchanged in a timely and secure manner for a multitude of products.
There are operational risks associated with such services, particularly where processes are not fully automated.
A failure to receive funds from participants may result in a debiting of the Groups cash accounts which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and operating results.
For more information on these risks see the Post Trade Services section of the Segmental Review on pages 2630, and Note 2 to the accounts, Financial Risk Management on pages 108112.
50 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Capital risk The Groups Capital Management Policy provides a framework to ensure the Principal risks to managing the Groups capital are: Group maintains suitable capital levels both at Group and solo entity levels, and effectively manages the risks thereof.
The Groups Treasury Policy In respect of regulated entities, capital adequacy compliance risk recognises the need to observe regulatory requirements in the management the risk that regulated entities do not maintain and report sufficient of the Groups resources.
qualifying capital to meet regulatory requirements and capital reporting compliance risk the risk that regulated entities fail to comply The Risk Appetite approved by the Board includes components related with capital reporting and regulatory obligations.
If a regulated entity to the Groups leverage ratios and capital risks: Key Risk Indicators are in the Group fails to ensure sufficient capital resources are maintained monitored regularly.
The Group maintains an ongoing review of the capital to meet regulatory requirements, this could lead to loss of regulatory positions of its regulated entities and operates within capital limits which approvals and or financial sanctions are overseen by the Treasury Committee, the Financial Risk Committee, the Executive Committee and the Board.
The Group can manage its capital In respect of regulated and unregulated entities, commercial capital structure by varying returns to shareholders, issuing new shares or increasing adequacy and quality risk the risk that Group and solo entities do or reducing borrowings.
The Board reviews dividend policy and funding not maintain both sufficient quantity and quality of capital to meet capacity on a regular basis and the Group maintains comfortable levels commercial requirements and investment return risk the risk that of debt facility headroom.
capital is held in subsidiaries or invested in projects that generate a return that is below the Groups cost of capital The Group regularly assesses debt and equity markets to maintain access to new capital at reasonable cost.
The Group is mindful of potential impacts Availability of debt or equity whether specific to the Group or driven on its key metrics when considering changes to its capital structure.
by general financial market conditions For more information on this risk see Note 2 to the accounts, Financial Risk Management on pages 108112.
OPERATIONAL RISKS The risk of loss, or other adverse consequences to the business, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Technology The performance and availability of the Group systems are constantly Secure and stable technology performing to high levels of availability and reviewed and monitored to prevent problems arising where possible and throughput continues to be critical to the support of the Groups businesses.
ensure a prompt response to any potential service interruption issues.
Technology failures may impact our clients, potentially leading to a loss of The Groups technology teams mitigate the risk of resource over-stretch trading or clearing volumes or impacting our information services activities.
by ensuring prioritisation of key development and operations activities, The Group continues to consolidate its IT development and operations in and resource utilisation and allocation are kept under constant review.
the MillenniumIT infrastructure to provide greater control and efficiency.
The MillenniumIT systems are designed to be fault tolerant and alternative This focus of activity means there is a risk of resource over-stretch to meet standby computer facilities are maintained to minimise the risk of both the requirements of the Group and those of third parties.
innovation and investment in new trading information systems can lead to further resource stretch in coping with increased volumes and new The Group actively manages relationships with key strategic IT suppliers product development.
to avoid any breakdown in service provision which could adversely affect the Groups businesses.
Where possible the Group has identified alternative The Group also has dependencies on a number of third parties for the suppliers that could be engaged in the event of a third party failing to deliver provision of hardware, software, communication and networks for on its contractual commitments.
The Group monitors new technological elements of its trading, clearing, settlement, data and other systems.
developments and opportunities such as Blockchain.
For more information see the Technology Services section of the Segmental Review, on pages 3435.
Clearnet see section of the Segmental Review on pages 2830.
Change management The senior management team is focused on the implementation The considerable change agenda is driven by both internal and external of the Groups strategy and the project pipeline in view of their factors.
Internal factors include the diversification strategy of the Group importance to the Groups future success.
Each major project is managed and its drive for technology innovation and consolidation.
External factors via a dedicated Programme Board overseen by members include the changing regulatory landscape and requirements which of the Executive Committee.
necessitate changes to our systems and processes.
Software design methodologies, testing regimes and test environments There are a significant number of major, complex projects and strategic are continuously being strengthened to minimise implementation risk.
actions underway concurrently, that, if not delivered to sufficiently high standards and within agreed timescales, could have an adverse impact on the operation of core services, and revenue growth, as well as damaging the Groups reputation.
The volume of simultaneous change could also lead to a loss of client goodwill if the execution is not managed appropriately.
Synergies and cost benefits may not be delivered to anticipated levels.
For more information, see the Chairmans statement on pages 45, and the Chief Executives review on pages 67.
51 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties continued RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Investment Management operations We monitor key regulatory developments in each of the jurisdictions The Group is currently in the process of divesting Russell Investments.
where the Investment Management operations and its advisory business In the period through to completion of the proposed sale of Russell are active.
We also work closely with industry trade associations and Investments the Disposal, there are risks relating to the Disposal itself, State trade associations to promote the interests of our clients.
as well as business risks during this transitional phase.
This separation There are in place a number of processes and governance practices that could take longer to complete than anticipated, increasing the risk of errors focus on the prudent management of third-party exposure.
Russells in the day-to-day operations of the business and or result in higher than Operational Risk processes include a formalised review of third-party expected costs to the Group or such loss of customers.
This could have an vendors.
Contracting and negotiation are centralised to ensure all adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results and relationships are properly contracted.
Service level agreements, customer relationships of the Group.
key performance indicators and reviews of the independent control Rising global demand for multi-managers single sub-advisor products attestations of strategic vendors SSAE16s are important elements has resulted in increasing competitive pressures for our Investment in the third-party supplier control framework.
The generally increasing use of ETFs and The third-party advisors who distribute our investment products to other passive investment products also drives competition, which could individual retail clients are subject to numerous, increasingly stringent impact the growth of assets under management and fees thereof.
regulations aimed at improving transparency and ensuring that clients The IM business model is reliant on data and services provided by are being well served, including applying the more demanding fiduciary third-party suppliers in custody, and certain money managers and standards to the relationship between financial advisors and their clients.
In North America, the IM business has established strong Risk Management of key vendors for our IM business includes centralised relationships with advisors at independent broker-dealers who distribute teams for credit, market and operational risk along with compliance Risk to individual retail clients and is reliant upon these third-party advisors Management personnel in each of its key operating regions.
to ensure that its products are being marketed properly and are well In addition, there is monthly monitoring and reporting to senior management matched to the needs of the individual clients.
of investment manager concentrations, and regular reviews with thirdIn most asset classes and some investment strategies there exist party investment managers by both the business units and Russells Risk investment manager concentrations or situations where mandates Management team.
represent a substantial portion of a managers AUM.
While the IM business faces little direct financial exposure to difficulties that a third-party supplier might experience, problems experienced by a supplier might expose the Group to reputational risk, regulatory risk, and potential litigation risk.
Investment Management consulting The IM business has a number of policies and processes in place to manage The IM business includes a consulting business, the clients of which are the risks associated with its consultancy activities and the activities of the generally very large and sophisticated institutional pension funds or retail facing business.
Sovereign Wealth Funds, and also a business offering financial services directly to retail investors in the UK.
Adverse investment experience for The consultancy business benefits from access to the same tools and clients of either of these businesses could expose the Group to reputational expertise as the core IM business.
Russells Risk Management team is risk or litigation risk.
represented in the governance process which oversees key investment models utilised by the Investment Management group and by its consultants in developing investment strategy recommendations.
Security threats Security threats are treated very seriously.
The Group has robust physical The Group is reliant upon secure premises to protect its employees and security arrangements, and extensive IT measures are in place to mitigate physical assets as well as appropriate safeguards to ensure uninterrupted technical security risks.
The Group is supported by the Centre for the operation of its IT systems and infrastructure.
The threat of cyber crime Protection of National Infrastructure CPNI in the UK, with both physical requires a high level of scrutiny as it may have an adverse impact on our and IT security teams monitoring intelligence and liaising closely with business.
Terrorist attacks and similar activities directed against our offices, police and global Government agencies.
operations, computer systems or networks could disrupt our markets, harm A third party security monitoring service is retained to assist with staff, tenants and visitors, and severely disrupt our business operations.
monitoring global physical security events with the potential to impact Civil or political unrest could impact on companies within the Group.
Long-term unavailability of key premises or trading and information The Group has well established and regularly tested business continuity outages and corruption of data could lead to the loss of client confidence and crisis management procedures.
The Group risk function assesses and reputational damage.
Security risks have escalated in recent years its dependencies on critical suppliers and ensures robust contingency due to the increasing sophistication of cyber crime.
52 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Employees The Group operates a performance management and appraisal system.
The calibre and performance of senior management and other key Executive development opportunities are provided and the Nominations employees, taken together, is critical to the success of the Group.
The Committee is responsible for considering succession plans for key Groups ability to attract and retain key personnel is dependent on a senior positions.
In addition, a programme of succession planning is number of factors.
This includes but not exclusively prevailing market operated by the Group to minimise the impact of the loss of key staff conditions, compensation packages offered by competing companies and critical to the operation of the business.
These factors also encompass the Groups ability to continue to have appropriate variable remuneration and retention A performance related annual bonus and pay review process is in place for arrangements in place, which help drive strong business performance all employees.
Regular benchmarking of reward and incentive systems is and impact the size of the local labour force with relevant experience and performed to ensure they are competitive.
The Group also offers Long Term the number of businesses competing for such talent.
There can be no Incentive Plans for high performers and critical staff and turnover is closely assurance that the Group will be successful in attracting and retaining monitored.
A centralised training budget allows a coordinated approach the personnel it requires, which may adversely affect the Groups ability to development across the Group.
to conduct its business through an inability to execute business operations We continue to enhance our talent management approach and maintain and strategies effectively.
a rigorous recruitment and selection process.
This process is managed by a new in-house team that reports to the Group Head of Talent.
For more information see Our wider responsibility, on pages 3637 and Remuneration Report, on pages 7087.
