London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Risk Management oversight The management of risk is fundamental to the successful execution of our Strategic Plan.
As our Group has grown we have enhanced our Risk Management capabilities to maintain our trajectory while protecting the value of our business.
LSEGs Risk Culture Maintaining operational stability by facilitating orderly market operations: LSEG is a widely, and increasingly, diversified financial infrastructure group.
As the the Groups operations are delivered in a secure and efficient manner Group has grown and the regulatory environment has become more complex, we without disruption have adapted to meet the challenges of the post-crisis markets.
While our formal Maintaining stakeholder confidence: the Groups stakeholders have risk framework codifies the objectives and practices that govern our processes, confidence in its ability to deliver its strategic objectives with robust and our risk culture determines the manner in which we manage risks every day.
effective governance and operational controls Our management culture embeds risk awareness, transparency and accountability.
Group Risk Appetite A strong emphasis is placed on the timely identification and reporting of risk LSEGs Risk Appetite is defined as the level of risk that the Group will accept in exposures and in the strategic analysis of prevailing or anticipated risks.
The pursuit of its strategic objectives.
The Group Risk Appetite Statement, proposed responsibility for identifying and managing risks rests with management and by the Executive Committee, is approved by the Board at least annually and is with the Executive Committee, with independent oversight from our Risk determined in conjunction with the Groups strategy and aligned to the Strategic Management Team.
Our risk culture is one of our most fundamental tools for Risk Objectives.
The Group has 4 subsidiaries that operate Central Counterparty effective Risk Management.
Our behaviour framework feeds into the criteria that Clearing Houses CCPs.
The components of Risk Appetite that relate to CCPs are we use to assess the effectiveness of our risk culture and the communication, also approved by the Boards of each CCP within the Group, in compliance with escalation and use of risk analysis to make strategic decisions.
EMIR and other applicable regulations.
Strategic Risk Objectives In 2015, LSEG refreshed its Risk Appetite by reconfirming our focus on risk LSEGs Strategic Risk Objectives derive from the strategy of the Group, which culture by increasing the number of indicators to be monitored: better defining is defined annually by the Board.
The risk objectives of the Group are as follows: the scope of stakeholder confidence risk: and strengthening the treatment Maintaining a risk aware culture throughout the Group: the Risk of counterparty concentration risk, reflecting the continuing enhancement Management Framework is embedded within divisions and functions of our Group risk oversight toolkit.
Maintaining stable earnings growth: the strategic growth of the business The Group Risk Appetite is cascaded down to each business unit so that is delivered in a controlled manner with long-term value enhancement and operational limits can be derived.
Regular reporting at both Group and Business low volatility of underlying profitability Unit BU levels uses Risk Appetite as a benchmark that can then be incorporated Maintaining capital requirements: the Group has sufficient capital resources into the Group Risk Policy Framework.
to meet regulatory requirements, to cover unexpected losses and to meet the Groups strategic ambitions Risks that are outside Risk Appetite are escalated to Executive Committee members and to the appropriate Risk Committee.
The Risk Appetite status Maintaining liquidity: the Group retains or has adequate access to funding is also reported to the Board Risk Committee and to the Board for all aggregated to meet its obligations, taking into account the availability of funds Group risks.
Adhering to regulatory requirements: the Group conducts activities at all times in full compliance with its regulatory obligations 3 Lines of Defence LSEGs risk control structure is based on the 3 lines of defence model: The First line Management is responsible and accountable for identifying, assessing and managing risk The Second line Risk Management and Compliance is responsible for LSEG Risk Appetite defining the Risk Management process and policy framework, providing challenge to the first line on Risk Management activities, assessing risks and reporting to the Group Board Committees on risk exposure Risk Culture The Third line Internal Audit provides independent assurance to the Board and other key stakeholders over the effectiveness of the systems of controls STRATEGIC RISKS and the Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF Stakeholder confidence Overall Risk Assessment Key risk categories include strategic, operational, and financial risks.
We recognise that each of these risks, if not properly managed and or mitigated could have an Earnings impact on the Group and on its subsidiaries reputation.
FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL Our approach to managing risks includes a bottom up and a top down approach.
Key external and internal factors are stress tested across our Group operations Capital to assess the potential impact on the financial results, strategic plans and operational resilience.
Group Liquidity Counterparty Concentration CCP Financial Resources 44 Compliance Operational Stability Strategic Report Risk Management oversight Current risks on which we continue to focus relate to: CCP Risk Management and Oversight Each of the Groups CCPs complies with the appropriate regulatory requirements.
Global Economy: Our acquisition of Russell Indexes to create FTSE Russell Consequently, they each manage their risk under the governance of their Board accelerates our geographic expansion in the US, the worlds largest financial of Directors and of their internal Risk Management structure.
The Group monitors services market.
While this enhances the Groups global profile, it also the CCPs aggregated risks positions by using tools that measure the overall increases exposure to systemic risks inherent in running a truly exposure to counterparty, credit and liquidity risks.
It uses a bottom up approach international business for the monitoring of operational risks.
Europe: Continuing uncertainty in the outlook for Europe introduces the In 2015, LSEGs Group risk oversight toolkit was expanded to cover additional potential for unexpected outcomes and may impact investors confidence clearing services and also non-clearing counterparty risk across the Group.
Regulatory Change: The introduction of new regulations including MiFIR This model consolidates the underlying risk by CCP members across their services will affect the operations of the Group as well as those of our users and with liquidity management balances and other Group Treasury activity, enabling customers.
There will be a sizeable implementation impact as a result LSEG to assess aggregate counterparty risks.
During 2015 we enhanced the of the incoming regulation and increased regulatory risk model to provide stress testing capabilities on our biggest CCP clearing positions.
Liquidity: The repo market has been adversely affected by banks contracting The Groups CCPs are managed in accordance with our ERMF, which includes their balance sheets in response to forthcoming leverage restrictions.
This a focused CCP Financial Risk Policy.
This promotes consistency in the oversight has impacted CCPs who use secured investments, such as reverse repos, of our clearing risks while protecting the independence of the CCPs Risk as mandated under EMIR, to maintain sufficient ongoing liquidity and Management processes as required by relevant regulation.
immediate access to funds Security: The security of systems and premises represents a key global The Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures PFMI produced by emerging risk CPMI-IOSCO provide the minimum Risk Management standards that a CCP should apply: however, LSEG CCPs apply more stringent standards where it The Group has an ongoing programme of development and enhancement is felt appropriate.
of its Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF.
The ERMF metrics and indicators include stress testing used to monitor risks against risk appetite As well as being managed by the CCPs own independent processes, CCPs to respond to emerging or expected risks.
risks are reported to and overseen by the Executive Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
As we look ahead, 2016 will bring the twin challenges of a rapidly growing business and accelerated regulatory change against a backdrop of heightened Stress Testing Capabilities and Viability Statement volatility in the markets that we serve.
In 2015, LSEGs Group-wide financial stress testing process was expanded and enhanced.
It is now fully embedded in the Groups Risk Appetite Statements Going forward, we will continue to strengthen our Risk Management by building and the Groups internal planning and budgeting cycles.
on the frameworks we have put in place.
Accordingly, we believe the Group is well positioned to exploit new opportunities in the year ahead.
The Groups viability statement is underpinned by this stress testing process.
Under this process, a set of severe but plausible scenarios appropriate to the business of the Group and reflecting our principal risks was defined by Management, and the financial impact of each on the Group was quantified.
A 3 year horizon was used for LSEGs financial viability statement, consistent Risk Management Cycle with the Groups strategic planning cycle.
The scenario impacts were evaluated Business on the Groups key financial metrics: liquidity headroom: leverage: interest cover Strategy and regulatory capital headroom.
Risk management In addition, a set of compounded stresses was evaluated to provide further activity supports the confidence on the ongoing financial viability of the Group even under very highly business strategy stressed environments.
The process and final output of the stress tests was reviewed by Management and by the Board and Audit Committee.
They also reviewed and discussed reverse stress testing, which was performed to assess Risk Risk what would be required to breach the Groups covenants.
Monitoring Appetite Monitor and report The level of risk The Directors financial viability statement is contained in the Directors Report on our risks that LSEG is willing on page 90. to accept in pursuit of our strategy Risk Risk Capture Policies Identify all of key Minimum risk exposures standards for our people and monitor compliance 45
