R IS K M AN A GE M E N T A N I N T E G R AT E D A P P R O A CH T O R I S K M A N A G E M E N T from left to right Geoff Galbraith, Global Head, Operations & Technology Jonathan Eliot, Chief Risk Officer Jasveer Singh, General Counsel VIABILITY STATEMENT Risk management is an essential component Our operating model is reliant on technology The Directors confirm that they have a of our approach, both to the management of therefore the heightened threat from reasonable expectation that the Group will investment funds on behalf of investors, and cyber-crime remains an area of increased continue to operate and meet its liabilities, the management of Man Groups business focus for the Group.
as they fall due, for the next three years.
The Directors assessment has been Man Group is currently regulated by 16 made with reference to the Groups Ultimate responsibility for risk management rests regulators in 13 jurisdictions: the Group current position and prospects, the with Man Groups Board, however, accountability continues to focus on keeping our operational Groups strategy, the Boards risk appetite is embedded throughout all layers of the and risk management frameworks effective for and the Groups principal risks and how business.
Our risk management framework our evolving global business.
In the Principal these are managed, as described in this requires that the business operates within risks and mitigants section on pages 36 to section of the Annual Report.
A three year acceptable risk tolerances, as defined by the 37 we have noted a number of regulatory period was selected as this is consistent Boards risk appetite.
Regulation continues to evolve with the Groups business planning provides a foundation for ongoing oversight in a at different paces across the world.
Independent fund boards are responsible for protecting the interests of We continue to seek the most efficient ways The strategy and associated principal fund investors.
to fund our regulatory capital and liquidity risks form the basis of the Groups requirements.
In May, we completed a share medium-term plan.
This covers a three repurchase, returning $175 million of capital to DEVELOPMENTS IN 2015 year period, and includes downside shareholders.
Investment underperformance continues scenario testing.
The Groups mediumto be the biggest risk facing the Group.
term plan is built by aggregating the Our counterparty risk exposures at both A diverse product range gives Man expected business performance across corporate and fund level are closely monitored.
shareholders protection against concentrated the Group, and then stressing key The risk to the Groups balance sheet from underperformance from any one sector.
business assumptions particularly those counterparty defaults remains low.
We The Group has continued to bolster its broad regarding investment performance and are conscious, however, of the continued range of investment styles and products fund flows.
risk of individual events, or downturns in in key markets.
market sentiment and we continue to take a The plan is also stress tested in a conservative approach to counterparty selection.
The expansion of our diversified product number of downside scenarios as part offering is supported by our balance sheet, of the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy which we have utilised to further increase the ASSESSMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS Assessment Process ICAAP.
The Board capacity of the seeding programme.
2015 The directors confirm that they have carried also receives regular updates throughout has seen the launch of several new GLG and out a robust assessment of the principal risks the year of the internally assessed level of Numeric funds, as well as the growth of the facing the Company, including those that economic capital requirement, relative to collateralised loan obligation CLO business would threaten its business model, future available capital supply.
in Europe and North America.
Whilst the performance, solvency or liquidity.
Group is exposed to a decline in value of these The medium-term plan and ICAAP investments, supporting the development The directors describe these principal risks assessments are augmented throughout of new products increases and diversifies and explain how they are being managed or the year by regular briefings at the Audit revenues further.
& Risk Committee by business unit heads on strategy, risk and controls, as well as dashboards across risk, compliance, finance and internal audit.
The principal risks are considered within the Boards risk appetite framework.
34 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 34 24 02 2016 18:03 STRATEGIC REPORT MANS RISK APPETITE STATEMENTS MAN GROUPS GOVERNANCE The committees below have been given a The risk appetite statements are set by the mandate by the Board and the CEO to oversee Board and cover all significant risk categories.
These They apply to both the investment management committees provide assurance to the Board functions and Man Group itself.
The statements that risk has been managed according to the express the Boards appetite for risk, promote risk appetite statements.
a risk aware culture and set out objectives and boundaries for Man Groups business.
BOARD The primary goal of risk management is to support the achievement of the Groups CEO AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE objectives by encouraging an appropriate balance between risk-seeking and risk-averse The Audit and Risk Committee ARCom is a EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE activities, in a controlled and regulatory committee of the Board which has oversight compliant context.
of the Assurance functions see page 57 for The Executive Committee is accountable further detail.
for all risks assumed in the business and is The governance framework and control responsible for the execution of appropriate environment within the Group have been risk management discipline.
designed to manage risks in accordance with risk appetite.
The Board and ARCom receive regular reporting on the Groups risk profile and adherence with risk appetite.
In the event that RISK & FINANCE COMMITTEE breaches to riskappetite occur, these will be resolved in line with the Groups procedures The Risk & Finance Committee RAF oversees the operational, regulatory and reputational risks faced by the Group and the internal control environment.
It also approves actual and contingent use and processes.
The statements are reviewed of the Group Balance Sheet and monitors the adequacy of economic capital and liquiditybuffers.
The RAF is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer CRO.
A summary of the new risk appetite statements is available at www.
THREE LINES OF DEFENCE The overall risk management framework at Man Group is based on the three lines of defence, and is overseen by the Audit and Risk Committee as delegated by the Board.
1ST 2 ND 3 RD The framework instils the principles of direct responsibility for risk management in each business unit.
Embedding accountability BUSINESS atthebusiness level is the first line of defence.
COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT The business units are monitored by a number of risk control functions i. e. Risk, Compliance, which form the second line of defence.
The independent review and oversight IN BUSINESS INTERNAL EXTERNAL provided by Internal Audit is thethird line of RISK RISK AUDIT AUDIT MANAGEMENT defence, which independently evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management, control and governance processes.
Although Man Group and the investors in its OPERATIONAL products are susceptible to losses, we believe MANAGEMENT our risk management framework supports long-term value through the process of riskaware decision making.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 35 23978 Man AR15.
indb 35 24 02 2016 18:03 P RI NC I PA L R I S K S Our comprehensive risk framework A N D M I TI G A NT S includes strategic, financial and operational risks to both Man Group and our funds.
Investment underperformance risk This is the key risk Man Group has to accept if it is to undertake its Fund underperformance on an absolute basis, relative to a benchmark business.
Man Groups investment businesses each have clearly defined or relative to peer groups would reduce FUM and may result in lower investment processes designed to target and deliver on the investment subscriptions and higher redemptions.
This risk is exacerbated at times mandate of each product.
This may also result in dissatisfied clients, negative Fund and manager performance is closely monitored, and we focus on press and reputational damage.
hiring and retaining highly skilled professionals who are incentivised to Lower FUM results in lower management fee revenue and perform within the parameters of their mandate.
underperformance results in lower performance fees, if any.
Man Groups diversified range of products and strategies across The breakdown of Man Groups FUM and revenue margins by product the alternatives marketplace mitigates the risk to the business from line are shown on pages 28 and 30 respectively.
underperformance of any particular strategy.
Adverse market moves and high volatility may sharply increase the Man Group conducts regular liquidity tests on its funds and endeavours demands on the liquid resources in Man Groups funds.
Market stress to manage resources in such a way as to meet all demands for fund and increased redemptions could result in the deterioration of fund redemptions according to contractual terms.
liquidity and in the severest cases this could lead to the gating of funds.
Regulatory risk Man Group supports proportionate and thoughtful global regulation and Man Group offers an increasingly wide range of investment products initiatives that develop the regulatory environment.
covering multiple strategies from a global network of offices.
It is licensed Man Group continuously assesses whether the products it markets comply in 13 jurisdictions, which results in Man Group being subject to a matrix with new regulations as they emerge and change.
In this respect, the of regulations.
Company conducts an independent review process for all products.
Man Group is regulated by 16 regulators.
The Financial Conduct Authority Man Group continues to liaise directly and indirectly with competent in the UK is the lead regulator.
authorities e. g. FCA, IOSCO, ESMA, HMT, NFA, DFSA and CSRC through Notable regulatory developments include the upcoming implementation its Compliance department which consists of approximately 42 specialists of UCITS V, MiFID II and the Market Abuse Regulation.
covering Corporate, Investment Management, Sales and Marketing and Financial Crime.
Compliance is located across six jurisdictions.
Balance sheet market risk Requests for seeding capital are assessed on their strategic rationale for The main sources of market risk are: the business.
Approvals are granted by the Seed Investment Committee SIC, which is comprised of senior management, Risk and Treasury.
Man Group uses capital to seed new funds as part of the ongoing Investments are subject to risk limits, an exit strategy and are hedged to a business to build our fund offering and expand product distribution.
The positions are monitored regularly by Group is exposed to a decline in value of the seeding book.
Group Risk and reviewed by the SIC.
Man Group underwrites the risks related to the UK defined benefit Asset reallocations by the UK pension plan trustees in 2015 sought to pension plan which closed to new members in 1999 and future accrual minimise the Equity and net UK interest rate risks.
The plan is fully funded, but is exposed to changes in net asset but is uncorrelated to Man Groups other risks.
Man Group has access to a revolving credit facility and maintains a Volatile markets can place additional, often short term, demands on liquidity surplus.
Man Group is exposed to having insufficient liquidity resources to meet its obligations.
Operational risk Risk and Control Self-Assessment RCSA is at the core of our assessment Operational risk is defined as the risk resulting from inadequate or failed of operational risks.
Key risk indicators and operational risk events are internal processes, people, systems, or from external events.
regularly reviewed so that our assessment of operational risks correctly reflects the Groups operational risk profile.
These assessments are Man Group continues to outsource a number of functions that were subject to independent review by Risk and Internal Audit, who also provide previously performed internally.
The risk is that the outsourced service assurance over the adequacy of the Groups control processes.
providers do not perform as required, resulting in knock-on implications for our business as a whole.
Man Groups operations team have implemented a methodology including KPI monitoring to confirm that outsourced service providers Acquisitions into the Group introduce short-term integration risks.
This process is monitored by the Risk & Finance Committee and ARCom.
Man Groups executive team is experienced in managing integrations.
Our risk and compliance teams independently review the assessment of integration risks and the appropriateness of risk mitigation plans.
36 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 36 24 02 2016 18:03 STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS MITIG ANTS 5.
Information security risk Cyber-crime attacks continue to grow in terms of scale and complexity.
Technology and information security are central to Man Groups We have deployed a number of preventative and detective controls to business.
Information security risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting defend our IT systems against cyber-attack.
These include penetration from cyber-crime, malicious disruption to our networks or from the theft, tests, monitoring for targeted attacks, regular security awareness misplacing, interception, corruption or deletion of information.
training for employees, a specialist security company monitoring our networks and regular access reviews.
However, the fast pace of innovation by cyber-criminals makes it particularly challenging to assess the effectiveness of our defences and deliver protection against this increasing threat.
Discretionary trading risk Front office systems provide automated checks and controls at portfolio The risk that investment managers either intentionally or unintentionally and trade level.
Each investment management business has dedicated fail to execute and or book trades correctly, or fail to adhere to investment risk management personnel who monitor portfolio profiles and provide mandates or regulatory rules.
This includes insider dealing and market independent challenge.
abuse, misrepresenting trading positions trades and misallocation In addition all fund managers are required to undertake regular between funds.
Man Group may need to compensate for any losses mandatory training so that they are aware of due processes and their arising from such trades, as well as face the possibility of fines, lawsuits responsibilities related to the placing of trades.
7. Credit counterparty risk Man Group diversifies its deposits across a number of the strongest The risk that a counterparty with which the funds or Man Group have financial counterparties, each of which is approved and regularly financial transactions becomes distressed.
reviewed for creditworthiness by the Counterparty Monitoring Committee, a sub committee of the Risk and Finance Committee.
The Shareholders and investors in Man funds and products are exposed Group Risk function monitors the credit spreads and ratings of the to credit risk of prime brokers, clearing houses, depository banks and approved counterparties on a daily basis.
Guaranteed products are closely monitored, and leverage is actively Man Group also provides loans to guaranteed products, and so is adjusted such that the risk of default related to balance sheet loans to subject to counterparty risk to certain investor funds.
Legal risk Man Group operates a global legal framework which underpins all The global nature of Man Groups business, with corporate and fund aspects of its business and is resourced by experienced legal teams.
entities located in multiple jurisdictions and a diverse investor base makes These teams are physically located in Man Groups key jurisdictions it subject to a wide range of laws.
Failure to comply with these laws and helping them to understand the context and impact of any legal regulations may put Man Group at risk of fines, lawsuits or reputational requirements.
Emphasis is placed on proactively analysing new legal developments to In response to the financial crisis, an unprecedented number of new assess likely impacts and mitigate risks.
laws have arisen which are applicable to Man Group.
While the legislative response has been global, implementation is local which leads to variations of approach between key jurisdictions.
Failure to stay abreast of, analyse and respond to these new and varied laws may expose Man Group to the risks outlined above.
Reputational risk Our reputation is dependent on both our operational and fund The risk that an incident or negative publicity undermines our reputation performance.
Integrity is fundamental to ensuring Man Group is able as a leading alternative investment manager.
Reputational damage could to attract investment in funds.
Our governance and control structure result in significant redemptions from our funds, and could lead to issues helps mitigate operational concerns, and our attention to people and with external financing, credit ratings and relations with our outsourcing investment processes aim to establish that we comply with accepted providers.
standards of investment management practice.
Key staff retention risk Man Group has been able to attract and retain an array of talented The risk that a key person to the business leaves or is unable to perform individuals across the Group.
Business and investment processes are their role.
designed with a view to continue this trend and minimise the impact of losing any key individuals.
However, the nature of Mans business means that this is a risk that Man Group must accept.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 37 23978 Man AR15.
