Strategic report 82 The Groups underlying risk RISKS philosophy of holding capital where the risks lie combined with strong subsidiary Board governance processes provides a stable basis from which to move to four independent businesses The Groups risk philosophy is to hold capital where the risks lie.
We only take on risks that we can understand, price appropriately and have the skills to monitor and manage.
The risk landscape is changing rapidly, particularly in context of the persistent volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous VUCA macro-economic environment.
In addition, our business is experiencing a period of change as we execute the managed separation.
Our approach to risk management considers a mix of factors capital, earnings, liquidity and reputation whose relative weights and degree of granularity vary according to the business and the external environment.
We make extensive use of multi-year scenario analysis to highlight creeping risks that may not be evident over a one-year horizon.
The results of our analysis has shown that the Groups Sue Kean Group Chief Risk Officer The risk landscape is against the backdrop of a challenging macro-economic environment Extensive use of multi-year scenario analysis to highlight risks that manifest over longer time horizons Group focus has moved from investment to execution of strategy within each business and the managed separation OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report capital position is resilient in times of stress.
delivery of strategy, as we integrate several Boards.
We have also shared key learnings 83 Our businesses in the UK and US explicitly key acquisitions and progress a significant from the review across businesses with seek market risk as part of their business number of large-scale change projects similar initiatives.
strategies and are exposed to secondary across the Group, in particular in Emerging As in previous years, it remains important to market risk arising from asset-based fees Markets and Nedbank.
Strategic execution keep a close eye on the changing pattern risk.
Therefore, the VUCA environment risk therefore remains a primary concern.
of credit risk across the Groups businesses.
and market downturns will impact these The costs and timing of the Old Mutual Given the growth of our lending businesses businesses.
Within OM Asset Management Wealth initiative for outsourcing technology in Emerging Markets and the relative OMAM, the business is positioned to and administration to IFDS have run immaturity of these businesses relative to withstand market volatility to a certain substantially ahead of initial estimates.
In other parts of the Group such as Nedbank, degree, due to the affiliate profit-share response to a detailed independent review further development of credit risk oversight model that provides structural variability we have strengthened the governance of is a key priority.
We are taking steps to to expenses.
the project and increased oversight by both strengthen governance and oversight to the Old Mutual Wealth and Old Mutual plc The economic outlook for South Africa ensure that we build sufficient expertise to and more generally for emerging markets manage credit risk as we grow.
This is due to a number With the backdrop of highly volatile global of macro-economic reasons, including conditions, regulatory, strategic change continuing concerns over Chinas economic and where our businesses are in the growth and falling oil prices.
In addition, investment cycle, we have revised our Over the past few ratings agencies have noted South Africas capital management and dividend policies, lower GDP growth forecasts and political years the Group including setting of our Solvency II capital developments that threaten its commitment appetite.
The new Group CEO has has been investing to fiscal discipline.
This has substantially performed a strategic review which leads increased the risk of a sovereign substantially the Group towards a managed separation downgrade to below-investment grade four independent businesses operating in status by at least one major agency over in growing the the capital markets and environment most the next year.
As a result of this and wider appropriate to each of them.
This brings a business through political issues in the regions where we new chapter for the Group and adds to the operate, we are more explicit on political acquisitions, and in strategic execution risks in the short to risk in our principal risks for 2016. medium term.
The Groups underlying risk IT initiatives driven The rand depreciated significantly over 2015, philosophy of holding capital where the by our commitment reaching historic lows against the dollar risks lie, combined with strong subsidiary and sterling.
This adversely impacts the Board governance processes, provides a to improve the translation of rand earnings and balance stable basis from which to move to four sheet values to sterling, and consequently independent businesses.
Extensive work has customer experience impacts cash remittances from businesses been carried out to consider the risks from and respond to and sterling dividend affordability.
The the new strategy, drawing on external rand remains volatile, with a high risk of advice on the various legal, regulatory and the breadth of further decline in the event of a sovereign stakeholder issues as well as stress and regulatory change downgrade emphasising currency scenario testing to evaluate the cash and translation in particular, its impacts on cash capital implications.
We will continue to impacting all our remittances from our businesses as one of adhere to the governance principles set out our principal risks.
Our focus in the Group Operating Model during this transition, however the practical application Over the past few years the Group has now is on execution will evolve to remain fit for purpose.
For been investing substantially in growing more information on our strategic direction, and delivery the business through acquisitions, and in refer to the Strategy section on page 8.
IT initiatives driven by our commitment to of strategy improve the customer experience and Sue Kean to respond to the breadth of regulatory Group Chief Risk Officer change impacting all our businesses.
1 1 March 2016 Our focus now is on execution and We will continue to adhere to the governance principles set out in the Group Operating Model during this transition, however the practical application will evolve to remain fit for purpose OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report 84 Our principal risks have been determined exposure.
Given the nature of our product by assessing the possible effects on our offering, market and environment risks are RISKS reputation, our stakeholders, our earnings, material: market movement impacts on our CONTINUED capital and liquidity, and the future asset-based fees, generated from clientsustainability of our business.
They are selected investments, and credit risk within summarised in the table below.
They are Nedbank and Emerging Markets is closely monitored and overseen by Group correlated to the market conditions.
You management and reported to the Board can read more information on our risk and on a regular basis.
capital management and risk profile in this PRINCIPAL RISKS section, after the principal risks and Our business is also affected by a number AND UNCERTAINTIES uncertainties.
Additional risk information is of risks inherent to the products we offer disclosed in the consolidated financial and the industry we operate in, such as statements, note F, on page 208.
The exposure to market levels, interest rates and graphic below summarises our principal insurance liability risk.
These drive a risks and their interactions, which are significant proportion of our capital detailed on the following pages.
requirements and earnings volatility RISK DUE TO EXTERNAL FACTORS, RISK DUE TO INTERNAL FACTORS, IMPACTING OLD MUTUAL IMPACTING OLD MUTUAL SIMILARLY TO PEERS MORE THAN PEERS Strategic execution risk and breadth of regulatory change across the Group Currency translation risk, location Uncertain of capital and sources global of remittances economic Political conditions Credit risk and location of credit risk across the Group Global economic outlook is uncertain Volatility in global equity markets observed over 2015 and early 2016 Changing government and public sentiment where we operate could influence perception of the Group Old Mutual will continue to engage with relevant stakeholders on political developments OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
