38 38 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, including those that could threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, as set out in the table below.
Strategic and business risk Definition Risk Mitigation Direction The risk to the Banks earnings and Performance against strategic and Regular monitoring by the Board and Unchanged profitability arising from its strategic business targets does not meet the executive committee of monitoring The Groups strategic and business decisions, change in the business stakeholder expectations.
This has of strategic and business performance operating environments are subject to conditions, improper implementation the potential to damage the Groups against market commitments, the on-going changes primarily driven by of decisions or lack of responsiveness to franchise value and reputation.
balanced business scorecard and risk market competition, economic outlook industry changes.
Use of stress testing to flex and regulation.
core business planning assumptions to assess potential performance under stressed operating conditions.
Reputational risk Definition Risk Mitigation Direction The potential risk of adverse effects Potential loss of trust and confidence Culture and commitment to treating Unchanged that can arise from the Banks that our stakeholders place in us customers fairly and being open and reputation being sullied due to as a responsible and fair provider transparent in communication with key factors such as unethical practices, offinancial services.
Established processes to adverse regulatory actions, customer proactively identify and manage dissatisfaction and complaints potential sources of reputational risk.
Reputational risk can arise from a variety of sources and is a second order risk the crystallisation of a credit risk or operational risk can lead to a reputational risk impact.
Credit risk Definition Risk Mitigation Direction Potential for loss due to the failure of Individual borrower defaults All loans are extended only after Unchanged acounterparty to meet its contractual Borrowers may encounter idiosyncratic thorough bespoke and expert The Groups Lending Policy, obligation to repay a debt in problems in repaying theirloans, for underwriting to ensure ability and underwriting standards, and approach accordance with the agreed terms.
example due to the loss of a job or propensity of borrowers to repay and to collections and recoveries have seen execution problems with a development sufficient security in case of default.
no material change over the past year.
While most of the Banks lending is secured, some borrowers fail Should there be problems with a loan, to maintain the value ofthe security.
the collections and recoveries team works with customers unable to meet their loan service obligations to reach a satisfactory conclusion while adhering to the principle of treating customers fairly.
A summary of forbearance measures undertaken is presented on p35.
While information on arrangements to pay is not included in the forbearance data, the Bank typically finds that over 80% of arrangements made by the team meet the payment plan agreed.
Our strategic focus on lending to professional landlords means that properties are likely to be well managed, with income from a diversified portfolio mitigating the impact of rental voids or maintenance costs.
Lending to owner-occupiers is subject to a detailed affordability assessment, including the borrowers ability to continue payments if interest rates increase.
Lending on commercial property is more based on security, and is scrutinised by the Groups independent Real Estate team as well as by external valuers.
Development lending is extended only after a deep investigation of the borrowers track record and the specific project and requires approval by a dedicated Development Finance Transactional Credit Committee.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 Credit risk continued Definition Risk Mitigation Direction Macroeconomic downturn The Group works within portfolio limits Unchanged A broad deterioration in the economy on LTV, affordability, name, sector and While the economic outlook remains would adversely impact both the ability geographic concentration that are uncertain, and particular concerns of borrowers to repay loans and the approved by Risk Committee and the remain regarding contagion from China value of the Groups security.
These are reviewed at least and geopolitical instability, the economic losses would impact across the lending annually.
In addition, stress testing is outlook for the UK has remained stable portfolio, so even if individual impacts performed as part of the ICAAP to over the past year.
were to be small, the aggregate impact ensure the Group maintains sufficient on the Group could be significant.
capital to absorb losses in an economic downturn and still meet its regulatory requirements.
Wholesale credit risk The Group transacts only with Decreased The Bank has wholesale exposures high-quality wholesale counterparties.
The Group established a reserve both through call accounts used for Derivative exposures include collateral account with the Bank of England, transactional and liquidity purposes agreements to mitigate credit exposures.
enabling it to eliminate credit risk and through derivative exposures onmost of its liquidity portfolio.
Market risk Definition Risk Mitigation Direction Potential loss due to changes in Interest rate risk The Groups Treasury department Decreased market prices or values.
An adverse movement in the overall actively hedges to match the timing of The Group has become more level of interest rates could lead to a cash flows from assets and liabilities.
sophisticated in its assessment of loss in value due to mismatches in the interest rate risk, developing a better duration of assets and liabilities.
understanding of the potential impact of more complex movements in rates and enabling better hedging.
Basis risk The Group strategically focuses on Unchanged A divergence in market rates could products linked to administered rates Product design and hedging has leadto a loss in value, as assets and to keep control of yield.
Where there enabled the Group to maintain the liabilities are linked to different rates.
isa mismatch of market rates in the overall level of basis risk through portfolio e. g. Base Rate vs. LIBOR, the year.
Liquidity risk Definition Risk Mitigation Direction The risk that the Group will be unable to Retail funding stress The Groups funding strategy is focused Decreased meet its financial obligations as they As the Group is primarily funded by on a highly stable retail deposit franchise.
The Group has made continual fall due.
retail deposits, a retail run could put it The large number of depositors provide improvements in both its regular in a position where it could not meet diversification, and c. 94% of balances are liquidity forecasting and stress testing itsfinancial obligations.
covered by the FSCS and so at no material framework.
In addition, it has gained risk of a retail run.
access to the Bank of England liquidity insurance facilities.
In addition, the Group performs in-depth liquidity stress testing and maintains a liquid asset portfolio sufficient to meet obligations under stress.
Finally, the Group has prepositioned mortgage collateral with the Bank of England, so that its liquidity insurance facilities can be accessed in the unlikely event that should become necessary.
Solvency risk Definition Risk Mitigation Direction The potential inability of the Bank to Key risks to solvency arise from balance Currently the bank operates from a Unchanged ensure that it maintains sufficient sheet growth and unexpected losses strong capital position and a consistent Solvency risk is proactively monitored capital levels for its business strategy which can result in the banks capital record of strong profitability.
and where appropriate management and risk profile under both the base and requirements increasing or capital actions are taken to ensure that the stress case financial forecasts.
resources being depleted such that it The bank actively monitors its capital bank operates within its risk appetite.
no longer meets the solvency ratios requirements and resources against asmandated by the PRA and Board financial forecasts and plans and Recent changes implemented as part riskappetite.
undertakes stress testing analysis to of CRD IV have resulted in requirements subject its solvency ratios to extreme for more and higher quality capital, The regulatory capital regime is subject but plausible scenarios.
though elements of these to change and could lead to increases requirements are being phased in.
in the level and quality of capital that The bank also holds prudent levels the Group needs to hold to meet ofcapital buffers based on CRDIV regulatory requirements.
requirements and expected balance sheet growth.
The Group engages actively with regulators, industry bodies, and advisers to keep abreast of potential changes and provide feedback through the consultation process.
40 40 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risk Definition Risk Mitigation Direction The risk of loss or negative impact to Mortgage fraud Experienced underwriters perform Unchanged the Group resulting from inadequate Applicants may provide false thorough checks on application There has been no material change or failed internal processes, people, information or documentation to information, including credit checks, to the Groups approach to mortgage or systems or from external events.
obtain a mortgage they might not ID checks, address checks, and Land fraud risk.
In extreme Registry checks and checks against the cases, funds could be borrowed National Hunter anti-fraud data sharing against an inflated valuation or system.
Brokers, valuers and solicitors even a non-existent property.
are managed through panels and are subject to regular review.
Network system intrusion An outsourced agency monitors the Unchanged If hackers were to penetrate the Banks infrastructure for known threats As the Group has increased its profile Groups IT system, consequences and reports when they are being and developed its online offering, it has could range from the diversion of executed.
This was extended to probably become more of a target for funds to the theft of customer data.
At the same time, its security are used regularly for penetration measures have continued to improve testing on the Banks systems.
and have performed very well Anti-virus software is installed to undertesting.
An IT security governance forum regularly reviews activity.
Data risk The Bank has established and Increased Data risk arises from inappropriate continues to invest in and enhance The increase in data risk has been usage, lack of data quality and its data management architecture, primarily driven by the increased scale security which can result in inaccurate systems, governance and controls.
of operations and the multiple sources reporting, customer detriment and from which data is derived.
Model risk Models are subject to independent Unchanged A small error in a model could be review and robust controls.
Developers More models have been established missed and lead the Group to overpay and users of the models have extensive in the business, meaning less new for a purchase or undercharge for a industry experience and provide sanity development and fewer chances to loan.
If this were to happen on a large checking that will prevent any introduce errors.
At the same time, transaction, the absolute impact largeerrors.
the Group continues to pursue couldbe significant.
some relatively large transactions, particularly portfolio acquisitions, where a small model error could have a large absolute impact.
The net impact of these changes is a broadly unchanged exposure.
People risk The Bank has a series of initiatives Unchanged The risk that the Bank will be that are intended to respond to this As the business continues to grow unable to meet its future resource risk.
This includes the introduction of the need for additional resources requirements through a combination a range of development programmes increases the pressure on hiring.
In of higher-than-expected staff attrition intended to improve retention and a number of specialist areas the issue and or the inability to identify and hire increase the population of in-house is exacerbated by the wider industry candidates with the necessary skills.
demands for individuals with the relevant skills.
However the Bank is adopting a proactive approach to ensure future resource requirements can be met.
Operational resilience The Bank carries out scenario based Increased Banks should have business resiliency, business continuity planning BCP, Increasing scale and globalisation continuity monitoring and plans in has crisis management procedures of operations.
The Bank is now reliant place to ensure an ability to operate on and recovery and contingency funding on systems and third party service an ongoing basis and limit losses in the plans.
The BCP is periodically tested providers.
The sophistication of event of severe business disruption.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41 Conduct risk Definition Risk Mitigation Direction The risk that the Groups culture, Lending products The Group has a strategic dedication Decreased organisation, behaviours, and actions While the Groups products are to simple, customer-friendly products.
There has been little change in the result in unfair, unreasonable, or simple, the size of a mortgage loan In addition, distribution is through Groups product offering from a unexpected customer outcomes for a typical customer and the general intermediaries, who take on the role of conduct standpoint over the past year.
lack of experience with such advising customers, though the Group A conduct risk framework and product transactions means that customers does review their performance.
Finally, risk tool have been introduced.
A review may find themselves exposed to a robust conduct risk framework and of the product suite has confirmed that unfavourable outcomes.
product assessment tool is in place.
risk is low, and any risk in new product development has been further reduced.
Back book A thorough review of the back book is Unchanged The Group has a substantial back book under way to identify conduct risk The issues highlighted through the of loans that were originated in a issues and remediate as appropriate.
back book review have so far been different conduct risk environment.
The limited to a small number of cases, back book has not yet been reviewed in and, after investigation, the impact its entirety, and it is possible that there hasproven to be limited.
are some product features that could lead to customer detriment.
Compliance Regulatory risk Definition Risk Mitigation Direction The risk that a change in legislation Key compliance based regulatory The bank has adopted the EMCD and Increased orregulation or an interpretation that changes that the bank is subject to SMR in an effective and timely manner.
The bank has historically responded differs from the Groups will adversely include EMCD, Senior Managers Regime effectively to regulatory changes and impact the Group.
SMR and potential macro prudential The adoption of MMR and the lending does not believe that future changes controls of the BTL sector.
policy requirements around affordability represent a heightened level of mean that the bank should be well compliance risk.
Further proposals currently under placed to respond to any macro discussion, including the Basel prudential regulation of the BTL sector.
Recent changes implemented as part of Committee consultation on CRD IV have resulted in requirements for standardised risk weights, could The Basel proposals will be subject to more and higher quality capital, though leadtosignificant increases in the extensive consultation and the eventual elements of these requirements are Groups capital requirements.
outcome could be materially different being phased in.
Further proposals tothose initially proposed.
The adoption currently under discussion, including of the eventual changes may take theBasel Committee standardised risk anumber of years to implement.
weight consultation, could lead to TheGroup intends to migrate to IRB.
significant increases in the Groups capital requirements.
Conduct regulation The Group has a programme of Increased Regulatory changes focused on regulatory horizon scanning linking The regulatory environment has theconduct of business could force intoa formal regulatory change tightened and this is likely to continue, changes in the way the Group carries management programme.
In addition, exposing the Group to increased risk.
out business and impose substantial the focus on simple products and compliance costs.
For example, the customer oriented culture means Financial Policy Committees increased thatcurrent practice may not have focus on BTL lending or tax changes tochange significantly to meet such as the bank profits surcharge newconduct regulations.
