STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk is inherent in the Companys activities but it is managed through a process of ongoing identification, measurement and monitoring, subject to risk limits and other controls.
The Company currently invests via a significant number of Platforms across asset classes and geographies.
The investment may take the form of individual loan purchases in a Platforms standard marketplace product: in other cases it is purchasing specific pools with bespoke criteria.
The Investment Manager closely monitors performance of the Platforms and operational delivery and is making use of data delivered by the Platforms and its own proprietary systems.
The Companys performance may be adversely impacted by a deterioration in the macroeconomic environment.
The Platforms the Company invests through remain subject to operational and regulatory risks, however no Platform that the Company has purchased loans through has suffered failure or materially adverse developments.
The P2P and marketplace lending universe is in the early stages of high growth and therefore has to make concerted efforts to maintain high standards and conform to all applicable laws and regulation.
The key risks faced by the Company are set out below.
The Board has in place a robust process to assess and monitor the principal risks of the Company.
A core element of this is the Companys risk register, which identifies the risks facing the Company and assesses the likelihood and potential impact of each risk, and the quality of the controls operating to mitigate the risk.
The register, its method of preparation and the operation of the key controls in the Investment Managers systems of internal control are reviewed, and reported to the Board, on a regular basis by the Audit and Valuation Committee.
In order to gain a more comprehensive understanding of the Investment Managers risk management processes and how these apply to the Companys business, the Audit and Valuation Committee periodically receives on-site presentations from the Investment Manager.
Some of the key risks potentially affecting the Company are: A.
Investment Strategy An inappropriate investment strategy, for example asset allocation or the level of gearing, may lead to underperformance resulting in the Companys shares trading on a narrower premium or a wider discount.
Mitigant The Board manages these risks by diversification of investments through its investment restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and reported on by the Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager provides the Directors with timely and accurate management information, including performance data and attribution analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports and shareholder analyses.
The Portfolio Manager also presents to the Board on a regular basis.
The Portfolio Manager also employs the Companys gearing strategically, within a range set by the Board.
Income Insufficient income generation leading to a cut in the dividend.
Mitigant The Board regularly reviews the Companys income statement and receives forecasts prepared by the Investment Manager on future dividends of investments in the portfolio.
The Investment Manager continuously monitors the Companys level of income.
C. Financial The financial risks faced by the Company include credit risk, market price risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and liquidity risk.
Credit risk is the primary financial risk of the Company.
Credit risk is the risk that borrowers do not fully repay the loans made by the Company or do so with significant delays, causing principal losses and write-offs.
Further details on financial risks are disclosed in note 6 of the Financial Statements.
Mitigant The Directors are ultimately responsible for identifying and controlling risks.
Day to day management has been delegated to MW Eaglewood Europe LLP as Investment Manager and AFM to the Group.
The Investment Manager and its partner Platforms strive to employ best-in-class credit underwriting processes, and engage in continuous monitoring of actual performance.
The Investment Manager monitors that debt collection responsibilities are carried out in accordance with arrangements that are in place between the Investment Manager and partner Platforms.
The Investment Manager may also actively pursue a sale of bad debts and or charged off loans to third party buyers to the extent that it believes that such sale price exceeds the net present value of expected future recoveries.
14 P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
