B6.5 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND MITIGATION The Group is exposed to a number of principal risks and uncertainties that arise from the operation of its business model and strategy.
A summary of those risks and uncertainties which could prevent the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives, how the Group seeks to mitigate those risks and the change in the perceived level of each risk in the last financial year are described below.
This summary should not be regarded as a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties faced by the Group but rather those which the Group believes have the potential to have a significant impact on its financial performance and future prospects.
To identify and control the risks to which it is exposed, the Group employs a risk management framework, described in section B6.4.
As part of this framework, principal risks are identified and assessed within the key categories of, Business Risk, Credit Risk, Conduct Risk, Operational Risk, Liquidity & Capital Risk, Market Risk, and Pension Obligation Risk.
Changes in risks are identified as shown below: RISK INCREASING RISK DECREASING RISK STABLE Business Risk Economic Risk Description Mitigation The Group could be materially affected by a The Group operates as a specialist lender in chosen markets where its employees severe downturn in the UK economy given have significant levels of expertise.
its income is wholly derived from activities within the UK.
Adverse economic conditions Robust underwriting and monitoring processes are employed which reflect could reduce demand for the Groups loan prudent credit policies designed to be maintained through economic cycles.
products, increase the number of customers that default on their loans and cause To support the validation of asset values for its core buy-to-let lending products, security asset values to fall.
the Group maintains an in-house team of Chartered Surveyors with considerable experience and understanding of the sector.
The Group closely monitors economic developments in the UK and overseas, with support from a leading independent macro-economic research company.
This ensures it is able to consider various economic scenarios and stresses within its formal business planning cycle.
Change Whilst the general domestic economic and property outlook has remained positive, the potential impact on the UK of any prolonged deterioration in the global economy remains uncertain.
PAGE 120 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business Risk Concentration Risk Description Mitigation The Group is heavily reliant on lending The Group has a very deep understanding of the private rented sector built up to customers investing in the UK private over many years of successful operations in the buy-to-let market.
It seeks to use rented sector.
It is therefore exposed to this expertise constructively by playing an active role in shaping the development any systemic deterioration in performance of policy for the private rented sector both directly and through membership of the of the sector, which will be influenced by CML, the IMLA and the National Landlords Association.
underlying factors such as house prices, supply of rental property, demographic The Group also continues to exploit prudent opportunities to diversify the range changes and government policy.
of its activities and income streams.
This is illustrated by the development of its Idem Capital debt acquisition business and the establishment and development of Paragon Bank.
Whilst the Group has diversified its areas of operation materially in the last financial Change year, it continues to have significant exposure to buy-to-let lending.
Proposed changes to the UK taxation regime for private landlords and potentially greater regulatory intervention in the sector could reduce demand for buy-to-let loan products in the longer term Competition Risk Description Mitigation The Group operates in highly competitive The Group has a strong track record of operating successfully in its chosen markets and faces strong competition in specialist areas which has been most recently illustrated by the development all of the core areas in which it is active, of a competitive product range by Paragon Bank.
including lending, savings, debt purchase and asset servicing.
There is a danger that The Group maintains strong relationships with its customers, business introducers the Groups profitability and or market and other significant participants in the markets in which it operates, as well as share may be impaired if its offerings do not being very active in industry-wide organisations and initiatives.
This enables market remain competitive.
trends to be identified and addressed within the relevant business strategy.
The Group undertakes comprehensive monitoring of competitor products pricing and strategy.
Change Whilst the Group has maintained a competitive position in each of its core markets, it continues to see increased competition in all areas of its operations.
This is likely to intensify as the UK economy improves and new participants enter the market.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 121 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Credit Risk Customer Risk Description Mitigation As a lender, the Group is exposed to the The Group has comprehensive policies in place that set out detailed criteria risk of unexpected material losses in the which must be met before loans are approved.
Credit policies incorporate limits event of customers being unable to repay for concentration risk arising from factors such as large exposures to particular their debts.
counterparties, geographical areas or types of lending.
Exceptions to these policies require approval by the Groups Credit Risk function, operating under a mandate from the Credit Committee.
The Credit Risk function provides regular reports to the Credit Committee and Risk and Compliance Committee on the performance of each of the Groups lending portfolios.
Originated loan assets are subject to individual underwriting approval with robust control and support provided by well-established decision tools, while purchased assets are subject to extensive pre-contract due diligence and rigorous ongoing analysis and monitoring.
The majority of the Groups loans by value are secured against residential property in England and Wales at conservative loan to value levels.
Rigorous and timely collections and arrears management processes are also in place.
The Groups impairment rate has remained very low, reflecting the maintenance of Change robust, proven credit disciplines, generally favourable economic conditions and the credit quality of its borrowers.
Counterparty Risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the failure of The Group has a strictly controlled number of approved treasury counterparties.
counterparties with which it places deposits.
In order to be approved, counterparties must meet specific credit rating criteria.
In addition it is exposed to the risk of loss Exposure to these counterparties is monitored daily by senior management within in the event of the failure of a counterparty the Groups Treasury function with all trading performed within approved limits.
with which it has negotiated hedging agreements to mitigate interest rate and The credit quality of all treasury counterparties and the Groups exposure to them foreign exchange risk.
is reported monthly to ALCO.
Treasury counterparties are typically highly rated banks and, for all cash deposits and derivative positions held within the Groups securitisation structures, they must comply with criteria set out in the financing arrangements, which are monitored externally.
Where a derivative counterparty fails to meet the required credit criteria they are obliged under the terms of the instruments to set aside a cash collateral deposit.
Interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives are held solely for hedging purposes The credit quality of the treasury counterparties, with whom the Group transacts has Change been maintained, taking into account collateral arrangements.
The Groups approach to the management of credit risk and the systems in place to mitigate that risk on both originated and purchased assets are described in note 7 to the accounts.
PAGE 122 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Conduct Risk Fair outcomes Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk that its The Group has a suite of policies in place covering areas of particular importance financial performance and reputation could to the fair treatment of customers.
These include: suffer significantly if it fails to deliver fair outcomes for customers.
conduct risk complaint handling responsible lending forbearance and vulnerable customer treatment There is an Operational Risk and Compliance Committee whose remit extends to overseeing compliance with the FCAs rules and guidance, including those relating to the fair treatment of customers.
The Committee receives reports each month from selected business areas relating to customer treatment and complaint handling.
During the year, the Group has strengthened its Compliance function which now sits within a Group Risk and Compliance division reporting to a newly created role of Group Chief Risk Officer.
The Compliance function has developed a formal monitoring plan which is heavily focused on conduct risk.
The plan is reviewed by both the Operational Risk and Compliance Committee and Board Risk and Compliance Committee.
Within the Groups consumer loan servicing area there is also a dedicated Quality and Control team which monitors the activities of customer facing employees to validate the delivery of fair treatment for customers.
The team also undertakes thematic reviews and customer experience reviews to help inform management of changes required to processes or training.
The Group maintains a centralised complaint handling function to ensure complaints are dealt with in a consistent and efficient manner.
All employees are required to undertake conduct risk related training with those in consumer facing roles also receiving monthly focused training which is subject to performance testing.
The increasingly regulated nature of the Groups operations and the continuing Change changes to the regulatory conduct landscape heightens the potential risk of financial losses or censure.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 123 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Operational Risk People Risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk that it is The Group has effective recruitment, development, retention and succession unable to recruit and retain skilled senior planning strategies in place which include: management and key personnel at all levels.
Failure to maintain the necessary skills Monitoring external remuneration and reward structures to ensure it remains within its workforce could have a material competitive and is able to recruit and retain key personnel impact on the Groups ability to deliver its Offering a range of employee benefits in addition to base salaries including business plan and strategic objectives.
a defined contribution pension scheme, Sharesave Plan and an annual profit related performance scheme for most employees Having an effective performance appraisal system to identify and provide appropriate training and development opportunities for employees Providing regular internal training for all employees and financial support to employees undertaking relevant external professional qualifications: and Undertaking formal succession planning reviews covering all key roles The Group has been accredited under the Investors in People scheme since 1997 and achieved Champion status in May 2014.
This is awarded to a very small proportion of accredited organisations who are seen as pioneers in people management practices and role models in strategic leadership.
Change The improving employment market and demand for skilled financial services employees has resulted in increasing competition to recruit and retain employees.
However the Group remains confident in its ability to manage this risk successfully as evidenced by the results of an employee survey during the year which indicated an 85% engagement level.
This level is above the average for the financial services sector.
Systems Risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk that its IT The Group has a formally agreed IT Strategy which ensures that priority is given infrastructure and systems are unable to to those areas which are most critical to the delivery of the Groups strategy and support its operational needs and fail to business plan.
offer adequate protection against the threat of cyber crime.
The Group maintains an ongoing programme of investment in IT infrastructure and systems.
This includes investment in security solutions to counteract cyber security threats.
There is also continued focus on the information security management system to ensure that controls, testing and user awareness is maintained and improved.
The Group is currently certified to ISO 27001 Information Security Management.
Change programmes are closely managed with robust control and testing processes to ensure that system developments meet operational requirements and are effectively implemented.
The Group has a robust vendor management process to select and monitor third party IT suppliers.
In order to ensure it can deal effectively with unexpected operational disruptions, the Group has a well-established Business Continuity plan which is updated and tested regularly.
The Group is currently certified to ISO 22301 Business Continuity.
Whilst the Group continues to maintain a robust and secure IT infrastructure that Change supports its operational needs, the heightened level and sophistication of cyber crime has increased the risk that this could impact its business model and strategic objectives.
PAGE 124 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Operational Risk Regulatory Risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk that its The Group has Risk and Compliance and Legal teams who review key regulatory and financial performance and reputation legal developments to assess the impact on the Groups operations.
These teams could suffer significantly if it fails to work with business areas to provide advice on the implementation of appropriate identify, interpret and comply with relevant measures to meet identified requirements.
Expert third party advice is also sought regulatory and legal obligations.
The customers and market sectors to which Major regulatory or legal change initiatives are subject to formal change governance the Group supplies products, and the capital with progress reporting to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
markets from which it obtains much of its funding, have been subject to legislative The Compliance function has developed a formal monitoring plan which is and other intervention by UK Government, reviewed by the Operational Risk and Compliance Committee and Board Risk European Union and other regulatory and Compliance Committee.
Certain of the Groups own activities are also subject to direct regulation.
The The Groups Financial Crime function provides independent oversight of business levels of regulation to which the Group is areas adherence to anti-money laundering and financial crime requirements.
subject have increased over recent years and this trend is expected to continue in All employees are required to undertake regulatory training.
Relevant group companies have submitted applications within the prescribed timescales for full permissions under the FCAs consumer credit regime.
Applications have or are about to be submitted to the FCA for other required regulatory permissions and registrations including regulated mortgages second charge lending and consumer buy-to-let.
The increasingly regulated nature of the Groups operations heightens the potential risk Change of financial losses or censure as a result of a failure to comply with relevant regulations or legislation.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 125 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Liquidity and Capital Risk Funding Risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk that Comprehensive Treasury Polices are in place for both the Group and the Bank to increases in the cost or reductions in the ensure sufficient liquid assets are maintained and that all financial obligations can be availability of funding could adversely met as they fall due.
impact its business model and strategic objectives.
The Group relies on its access to The Group has a dedicated Treasury function which is responsible for the day to day sources of funding to finance the origination management of its overall liquidity and wholesale funding arrangements.
of new business, portfolio acquisitions and working capital.
If access to funding The Board, through the delegated authority provided to the ALCO, sets strict limits as became restricted, either through market to the level, composition and maturity of liquidity arrangements.
movements or regulatory or governmental Compliance to the approved limits is monitored daily.
Detailed management action, this might result in the scaling back information is reported monthly to ALCO in order to ensure that the Group can or cessation of some business lines.
maintain adequate liquidity even under stressed conditions.
The Groups banking subsidiary, Paragon The Group maintains a diversified range of both retail and wholesale medium and Bank PLC, relies on retail deposits and long term funding sources to cover future business requirements and liquidity to therefore changes in market liquidity could cover shorter term funding needs.
impact the ability of the business to maintain the level of liquidity required to sustain The Group uses securitisation to mitigate its exposure to liquidity risk on its normal business activity.
In addition, there borrowings, ensuring, as far as possible, that the maturities of assets and liabilities is a risk that the Group could face sudden, are matched.
unexpected and large cash outflows from customer withdrawals.
The Company has a BBBinvestment grade credit rating from Fitch to support maintenance of its access to funding markets.
Paragon Bank is authorised to accept deposits.
As such it is subject to regulation by the PRA, which aims to ensure that sufficient liquid assets are held to mitigate the liquidity risk inherent in deposit taking.
Change Whilst wholesale funding markets have tightened somewhat during the financial year, the Group remains well funded with sufficient liquidity to meet all its financial obligations as they fall due.
It is also well placed to access further funding if required.
PAGE 126 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Market Risk Interest rate risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk that Comprehensive Treasury Polices are in place to ensure that the risk posed by changes in interest rates may adversely changes and mismatches in interest rates is effectively managed.
affect its net income and profitability.
In particular, the Groups profitability is The Group manages this risk by maintaining floating rate liabilities and matching determined by the difference between the these with floating rate assets, by hedging fixed rate assets and liabilities using interest rates at which it lends and those interest rate swap or cap agreements and by maintaining a proportion of fixed at which it borrows.
Therefore changes in rate liabilities.
market interest rates could materially impact the Groups profits as a result of significant The Group has a dedicated Treasury function which is responsible for the day to day interest rate mismatches between its assets management and control of its exposure to interest rate risk.
ALCO monitors the interest rate risk exposure on the Groups loan assets and asset backed loan notes on a monthly basis.
This ensures compliance with the requirements of the trustees in respect of the Groups securitisations and the terms of other borrowings.
Paragon Bank has its own Treasury Policy and ALCO which focuses on the risks within the Bank, including the retail deposit position.
Notwithstanding this, the Group ALCO maintains oversight of market risk across the whole Group.
Paragon Banks retail deposits either bear variable interest rates or are fixed rate liabilities which are hedged in accordance with the Groups interest risk management strategy.
The Group has no direct exposure to market interest rate risk.
Change The Groups exposure to interest rate risk has remained consistent during the financial year and the associated risks remain broadly unchanged.
Further information regarding the Groups management of interest rate risk is discussed in note 7 to the accounts.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 127 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Pension Obligation Risk Pension Obligation Risk Description Mitigation The Group operates both a defined benefit The defined benefit scheme was closed to new members with effect from February and defined contribution pension scheme 2002.
Since that time, new employees have been invited to join the Groups defined in the UK.
There is a risk that the Groups contribution pension scheme which carries no investment or mortality risk for pension liabilities may be adversely affected the Group.
by a range of factors including bond yields, inflation rates, interest rates, changes to The defined benefit scheme is formally revalued independently every three years, pension regulations and demographic most recently as at 31 March 2013. factors.
At that point, the value of the Plans liabilities on a buy-out basis in accordance with section 224 of the Pensions Act 2004 was 144.5 million, with a shortfall against the assets of 67.2 million.
As a result, the Trustee put a recovery plan in place whereby the Group undertook to fund the deficit to meet the statutory funding objective by 31 August 2019 note 52.
The next formal review will be undertaken in 2016 at which point consideration will be given to any required changes to the existing deficit reduction plan.
Change There have been no material events in the year within the defined contribution scheme which would affect its valuation.
There have been no other changes which would materially affect the Groups pension liabilities.
PAGE 128 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
