Strategic report 57 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Risk management andprincipal risks The group operates a three lines of defence model: the first line Risk management involves the operational identification, assessment and management of risk: the second line involves independent review and challenge of Our risk management framework is firmly embedded first line actions against established risk appetites: and the third line is within our management and governance processes, independent assurance.
and incorporates theinternal controls processes The board provides oversight to help ensure that the group and its divisions maintain sound risk management and internal control set out on page 58.
The framework has been systems.
Through the risk advisory committee, it reviews the in operation throughout 2015 andcontinues to assessment of risks and the risk management framework.
operate up to the date ofapproval of this annual A consistently applied method is used at divisional and group level report.
It is the process by which compliance with to identify the key risks that could have a significant impact on the laws and regulations, thereliability of financial ability of the group to achieve its objectives.
Risk owners within the divisions and the corporate office are identified and given reporting and the effectiveness andefficiency of responsibility for ensuring actions are implemented with appropriate operations arereviewed.
The framework assists review dates.
The risk registers are reviewed by the risk advisory in the identification, evaluation and management group and updated at least quarterly.
The risk advisory committee is responsible for monitoring the key metrics identified by the divisions of principal risks as required by the Code, and is and the corporate office in the management of risk and ensures, in designed to manage rather than eliminate the particular, that customer outcomes remain central to the groups risk risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
board believes theframework provides reasonable, The board is satisfied that the companys risk management and but notabsolute, assurance against material internal control systems are effective and were effective throughout 2015 and up to 23 February 2016.
The board does this through the misstatement orloss.
audit committee, which: i reviews the work of the group internal audit function and the opinion issued on risk and control effectiveness: and ii actively monitors the risk management and internal control systems on an ongoing basis.
Further insight into the groups principal This annual review and ongoing monitoring confirms that the risk risks, and the management of these is management framework and internal control systems effectively on pages 62 to 65. support and manage the achievement of the overall group objectives and provide suitable protection of the groups assets, reputation and sustainability.
A strong risk and control culture was identified in all divisions and areas where improvements could be made were identified.
An action plan has been established to ensure that the systems and processes continue to evolve as the regulatory environment in which the group operates continues to change.
The group finance function establishes the process and timetable for financial reporting and consolidation activities and identifies and approves changes to accounting and financial reporting standards.
The board believes the process and the key elements of the internal control system, including in particular the financial reporting processes, are in accordance with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting the FRCs Guidance and the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
58 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Risk management andprincipal risks continued Internal control Monthly management accounts Monthly management accounts are prepared comparing actual trading results by division to the board approved budget and the prior year.
Regulatory capital levels, funding, liquidity and economic trends are also reported monthly.
A rolling forecast of the full year outturn is produced as part of the management accounts.
Management accounts are distributed to the executive directors and senior management team on a monthly basis and aredistributed to the board for each board meeting.
Corporate policies The board Biannual budget process The board requires the divisions Reviews the risk management In December each year, the board and the corporate office to operate framework annually to ensure approves detailed budgets and cash in accordance with the corporate that it remains fit for purpose flow forecasts for the year ahead.
It also policies and to certify compliance and complies with relevant approves outline projections for the on a biannual basis.
This includes laws and regulations including subsequent four years.
An update to confirmation of compliance and the Code.
thebudget is approved in June each year.
This ensures that the process remains dynamic and that the divisions and corporate office are operating at the highest level.
Finance forum including The corporate policies were last updated in July 2014 and are due to treasury committee be reviewed and updated in 2016.
Risk advisory committee A six-weekly finance forum, chaired by the Finance Director and attended by Chaired by a non-executive divisional finance directors and senior director of the board, it is finance management including the responsible for ensuring that heads of tax, audit, treasury and risk, there is an appropriate risk reviews and provides oversight of the Internal audit management framework key financial matters of the group.
Regularly reviews the adequacy of internal controls including financial, operational and Whistleblowing compliance controls in conjunction with the external Whistleblowing policies are in place in each of auditor and reports to the risk the groups divisions.
The group is committed advisory group, risk advisory to the highest standards of quality, honesty, committee and audit committee.
openness and accountability and employees An annual programme of work are encouraged to raise genuine concerns which targets and reports on Risk advisory group under these policies either by contacting a higher-risk areas is carried out by manager or telephoning a dedicated external the group internal audit function.
Formally reviews the divisional helpline in confidence.
During 2015, this risk registers four times a The operation of internal financial external helpline was operational throughout controls is monitored by regular year, and reports to the risk the group and procedures are in place to advisory committee.
management reviews, including ensure issues raised are addressed in a arequirement for each division confidential manner.
The Company Secretary tocertify compliance quarterly.
is required to report to the audit committee in December each year on the integrity of these procedures, the state of ongoing investigations and conclusions reached.
During 2015, 11 complaints were received, which is an increase from previous periods Divisional boards and is the result of an awareness campaign carried out in 2015 following updates to the The divisional boards and their whistleblowing policy and the third-party committees are responsible for provider marketing material.
All complaints managing the divisional risks made via the external helpline were thoroughly and preparing divisional risk investigated and dealt with in accordance registers for review by the risk with the appropriate internal procedures.
advisory group who report to Three lines of defence model As the Republic of Ireland ROI introduced the risk advisory committee.
new whistleblowing legislation in 2014, the First line group took this as an opportunity to review and update its whistleblowing procedures Second line for both the UK and ROI and to ensure that employees are aware of the availability of the Third line external helpline.
Strategic report 59 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Viability statement In accordance with the 2014 FRC Corporate Governance Code, the conditions, new strategies, products, the acceptable performance directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the of the groups divisions, the ability to refinance debt as it falls due group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall and the development of the regulatory environment.
due, for the next three years.
The directors assessment has been The plan is stress tested in a robust downside scenario as part made with reference to the groups current position and prospects of the boards review of the groups Internal Capital Adequacy outlined within the strategic report, the groups strategy see pages Assessment Process ICAAP.
Stress testing covers both significant 14 to 17, the boards risk appetite and the groups principal risks financial and regulatory downsides.
The financial stress test uses and how these are managed see pages 62 to 65. the 2008 09 financial crisis as its basis, and, therefore, reflect a The group established its current strategy after the demerger of its number of the principal risks of the business through reducing new international business in 2007.
The strategy is built on a compelling funds raised, lowering the deployment of capital and increasing investment proposition that focuses on delivering to shareholders impairment.
The regulatory stress tests are based on fundamental a combination of strong returns, an attractive dividend and visible changes in the business model as a result of regulatory intervention growth see page 10. to control prices or outlaw products.
The strategy and associated principal risks underpin the groups The review of the three-year plan is underpinned by the regular three year plan and stress scenario testing, which the directors board briefings provided by the divisional managing directors and review atleast annually.
the discussion of any new strategies undertaken by the board in its normal course of business.
These reviews consider both the The three-year plan is built on a divisional basis using a bottom market opportunity and the associated risks, principally conduct up model, as part of a five-year budget.
The first three years of and credit risk.
These risks are considered within the boards the budget plan command the greatest focus, with the later years riskappetite framework.
produced robustly, but at a higher level.
The first three years of the budget plan therefore forms the basis of this statement.
The threeThe directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial year plan makes certain assumptions about future economic statements on the going concern basis, as set out on page 73.
Risk in action Vulnerable consumers As a result of the new guidance, the review of previous approaches, In February 2015 the FCA published an occasional paper on the the attention of the boards risk committee and the engagement subject of vulnerable consumers, laying out new guidance on of all levels of management, significant progress has been made in the identification and treatment of anyone who, due to their 2015 in handling vulnerable consumers.
Changes have been made personal circumstances, is especially susceptible to detriment, to the identification and handling of vulnerable consumers, with particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of specialist resource dedicated to the issue along with the tracking care.
Launching the paper, the FCA stressed the importance of the and monitoring of cases and outcomes.
Further refinement has issue and the two key challenges which it considered firms faced: been identified and planned going forward.
The approaches used, i securing board, as well as executive committee level buy-in for and training delivered has benefited from the expertise of external change: and ii making sure senior leader directions are then fully bodies specialising in the various drivers of vulnerability, and will reflected in a suitably flexible customer experience, accounting continue to do so.
The key question for the FCA was How do we bridge that gap The group business model and products are founded on higher between policy intention on the one hand, and frontline delivery levels of flexibility and personal contact than prime issuers onthe other?
to match the needs of non-standard customers.
The groups approach is naturally suited to dealing sympathetically with the In response to the paper, each of the groups divisions began variety of needs of those who find themselves in difficult personal a thorough review of their own existing vulnerable consumer circumstances.
The challenge is often to ensure consistency and policies, procedures, processes, quality control monitoring and tracking of customer outcomes, and to be able to demonstrate customer outcomes in light of the new clarity from the FCA.
that customers with a wide variety of needs havebeen treated In response to the higher level issues highlighted by the FCA, the appropriately in the frontline as intended.
board requested a deep dive on vulnerable consumer practices at the risk advisory committee in October 2015 to fully consider the issues, progress made and the extent to which the intended Read more about a vulnerable customers support journey on pages 60 to 61 approach was delivered in the frontline.
Specific time was set aside in the committee to discuss the issue and the divisions prepared materials including case studies of actual customer situations in order to demonstrate how the challenges were being addressed.
The managing directors and chief risk officers of the divisions attended the deep dive session at the committee in order to discuss the issues and answer questions from committee members.
60 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Risk management andprincipal risks continued Vulnerable customer support journey Indication of New credit card customer Normal use of credit card potential vulnerability Vanquis Banks low and grow cardholder example John uses his credit card, John was delighted to be makes repayments, accepted for his first After 18 months, John starts building a credit history, credit card with missing payments.
qualifying for an increase a 250 credit limit.
Contact centre team During a regular collections call, John mentions that he has recently had a severe mental breakdown following a difficult divorce and family bereavement, and is finding it difficult to cope with his finances or anything else at the moment.
He is currently signed-off from work and under the care ofamental health crisis team.
A member of the contact centre team uses the TEXAS protocol and with consent, captures details within the Customer Care page.
With Johns agreement, they would like to pass him through to the Specialist Support team who are better placed totalk through the appropriate optionsavailable to John.
Strategic report 61 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Vulnerable customer support journey Specialist Resolution plan Issues resolved assessment developed Vanquis Banks low and grow cardholder example Based on a full review of Johns John is eventually able to return John is transferred to current medical and financial towork and resume the a specialist who has situation, an affordable payment normaluse of his credit card, a lengthy discussion with plan is agreed which will be buthas the Specialist Support himabout his situation.
monitored closely by the number should he need support SpecialistSupport team.
Specialist Support team Johns account is flagged as particularly vulnerable, taking it out of mainstream collections.
John is transferred to a member of the Specialist Support team who has a further in-depth conversation with him about his current situation and what supporthe needs.
All of our contact centre team receive initial and ongoing training We also use external expertise including partnerships with Macmillan, to help recognise and deal with possible vulnerable customers.
Shelter, Samaritans and Step Change as well as guidance from the They use a technique developed by the Money Advise Trust Royal FCAand the BBA taskforce who are currently considering the issues.
College of Psychiatrists Thank, Explain, eXplicit consent, Ask, All calls are recorded and monitored.
Monthly case studies are Signpost TEXAS to construct calls.
Calls will also be augmented discussed in detail with senior management and any complaints with Speech Analytics monitoring to automatically highlight calls areanalysed and action taken to avoid a repeat of the situation and cases for review to ensure customers are handled appropriately.
giving rise to the complaint.
Internal thematic reviews are Specialist members of our team are able to offer a range of conductedon specific issues along with groupinternal audit forbearance options to help vulnerable customers, dependent upon andexternal legal reviews.
This may include offering breathing space, Our processes are designed to comply with The Equality short-term or long-term payment plans with interest and charges Act 2010, The Mental Capacity Act 2005, CONC, SYSC, TCF, reduced or frozen, or in some serious cases, a decision may be taken TheDataProtectionAct 1998, and EHRC guidelines.
that the debt will no longer be pursued.
The Customer Care page alerts front-line members of staff in all business areas that a customer has disclosed and consented to sensitive information being noted onto their account.
This alert allows our team to tailor their conversation appropriately right fromthe start of the call.
l a n o i t a r e p O e l p o e P y r o t a l u g e R t c u d n o c d n a r e m o t s u C 62 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Risk management andprincipal risks continued Provident Financial Group risk map 3 2 7 1 10 6 4 8 5 9 High Likelihood Low 17 20 21 15 19 14 16 18 11 12 13 Principal and emerging risks Impact Likelihood 1 Conduct 12 Information security 2 Responsible lending 13 Supplier High current principal risks 3 Agent customer relationship 14 IT change management 4 UK regulation 15 Capital 5 EU regulation 16 Liquidity Increase 6 Credit 17 Pension from 2014 7 Home credit collections 18 Tax Decrease 8 Competition 19 Remuneration from 2014 9 New initiatives 20 Recruitment and retention 10 Change management 21 Self-employment status 11 Publicity and political Low emerging risks Selected risks discussed in more detail t i d e r C s s e n i s u B l a i c n a n i F l a n o i t a t u p e R Strategic report 63 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Risks in more detail Relation to business model Selected key risks Risk mitigation Change and progress in 2015 All divisions have policies, practices and Conduct has remained a central focus of 1.
Conduct: proceduresinplace to: the FCA.
01 02 The risk of poor 03 Minimise the risk of customers potentially Customer satisfaction has remained high and receiving loans or lines of credit that are complaints low in all divisions.
outcomesfor customers 04 unaffordable or unsustainable.
FOS rulings in favour of customers remain low inany ofthe groups 08 05 Ensure that financial promotions are clear, for all divisions, reflecting internal efforts to 07 06 divisions.
resolve any issues that arise quickly and fairly.
Vanquis Bank and CCD have continued to develop and improve their conduct risk Regular customer satisfaction surveys are frameworks and management throughout undertaken in all businesses.
the year, including particular focus on the Vanquis Bank has had treating customers treatment of vulnerable consumers following fairly TCF principles firmly embedded into FCA guidance published in February 2015. the business since they were introduced by Moneybarn has put in place formal conduct theFSA in 2007 and CCD has been operating risk management and monitoring processes, a first line Customer and Conduct Risk and continues to lead the industry in ensuring Committee during the transition to FCA FCA-compliant broker commission structures regulation in order to help embed customers and behaviours are in place.
interests at the heart of the business.
All businesses have second line risk committees overseeing all risks, with conduct issues central to the agendas.
Vanquis Bank also has a second line compliance committee focused on FCA rules and guidelines and a customer experience forum to ensure issues are considered from a customer perspective.
The risk advisory committee has oversight of the divisional risk frameworks and devotes at least half its time specifically to conduct risk.
Divisional compliance functions are in place CCD and Moneybarn submitted applications 4.
UK Regulation: which monitor compliance with relevant to the FCA for full authorisation in May 01 02 The risk of adverse regulations and report to divisional boards.
2015, following Vanquis Banks application 03 for a variation in its existing permissions in An experienced central in-house legal team regulatory change December 2014.
The group has received 04 is in place which monitors legislative changes and or failure to comply and continues to receive enquiries from 08 and supports divisional compliance and 05 its regulators including the FCA, including legal functions.
07 06 withrelevant UK in connection with its requests for its Expert third-party legal advice is taken authorisations and variation of permissions.
The groups businesses continue to have Ongoing constructive dialogue is maintained a constructive dialogue with regulators, with regulators and the group plays a full and responding to questions and information 5.
EU Regulation: active part in all relevant regulatory reviews requests.
However, the outcome of such and consultation processes.
enquiries is inherently uncertain and there The risk of adverse is a risk of a potential adverse impact on Group chief executive, Peter Crook, and regulatory change the group.
Moneybarn managing director, Peter Minter, are active members of the FCA Practitioner The FCA introduced a cap on the cost of and or failure to comply Panel and FCA Smaller Business Practitioner HighCost Short Term Credit HCSTC in with relevant EU Panel respectively.
Satsuma is the groups only business subject to the cap and continues regulatory requirements.
tooperate within the caps constraints, as itdid from launch.
The FCA published the interim report of its credit card market study in November 2015 noting that consumers were engaged and open to switching providers and that competition was working fairly well for consumers.
The FCA is seeking views on arange of potential remedies to make the market work better, before consulting on finalproposals to be published in Spring 2016 for consultation.
64 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Risk management andprincipal risks continued Relation to business model Selected key risks Risk mitigation Change and progress in 2015 All businesses have first line credit committees All divisions have maintained tight 6. Credit: that set policy and regularly review underwriting standards on both new 01 02 The risk of suffering credit performance.
03 Comprehensive daily, weekly and monthly During 2015, CCD completed full roll-out of unexpected losses in 04 reporting is produced on credit KPIs.
smartphone apps to all home credit agents theevent of customer which automate and evidence the lending 08 05 All businesses have non-standard specific process for the agent.
lending experience spanning economic cycles.
Vanquis Bank arrears continued to run Home credit loans are underwritten faceatrecord lows.
to-face by agents in the customers home: agents generally maintain weekly contact Significant further improvement in credit with the customer and stay up to date with quality within home credit.
their circumstances: agents commission is Moneybarn default rates remained stable.
predominantly based on collections, not credit Continued refinement of Satsuma issued: application and behavioural scoring is underwriting standards, with material used to assist agents underwriting.
Vanquis Bank utilises a welcome call and low and grow approach to granting credit appropriately as the customer demonstrates sustainability and affordability.
CCD loans are small-sum and short-term in nature and Vanquis Bank credit card lines are far lower than mainstream equivalents.
Vanquis Banks expertise in collections and credit assessment has been applied toSatsuma, glo and Moneybarn..
Ongoing monitoring of all existing markets Competition in UK credit cards remains 8.
Competition: and competitors at a group and divisional consistent with Barclaycard Initial, NewDay 01 02 The risk that new or level feeding into the biannual budgeting and and Capital One all being active.
Vanquis Bank has been able to maintain the existing competitors flow of new accounts and continue to grow the 04 Historic, current and forward looking analysis business in line with its plan.
impact business 08 of the groups sectors and the UK non- 05 standard credit market in general.
Home credit has seen further consolidation 07 06 performance and a new entrant in Non Standard Finance Product development frameworks and unexpectedly.
business development processes in all divisions take account of the external Satsumas high-cost, short-term competitors have reduced in scale, having had to adapt to environment and competition.
a rate cap, a tougher regulatory regime and go through a number of redress processes during 2015.
Moneybarn has successfully doubled the volume of new business since acquisition having been freed from funding constraints.
Further investment of 5m in developing 9.
New initiatives: Satsuma in 2015, leveraging Vanquis Bank 01 02 Annual corporate planning conferences in The risk that new collections capabilities.
CCD, Vanquis Bank and at group level where 03 current and potential new initiatives are Satsuma is now expected to produce a small businesses and 04 thoroughly discussed.
contribution to CCDs profits in 2016. newinitiatives under 08 05 Comprehensive daily, weekly and monthly Guarantor loans pilot, glo, has confirmed the 07 06 development internally reporting on performance KPIs.
potential of a business capable of delivering the groups target returns.
glo will be rolled fail, or are delayed in New businesses and initiatives are subject to out and, subject to regulatory approval, pilot testing phases before full implementation achieving scale or transferred from CCD to Vanquis Bank during is approved.
2016 where the management capacity and expected returns.
business skills required to develop the business are readily available.
Vanquis Bank closed its Polish credit card pilot, as it was determined that the pilot could not achieve the groups target returns in an acceptable timescale.
Vanquis Bank will focus on the UK market going forward.
Strategic report 65 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Relation to business model Selected key risks Risk mitigation Change and progress in 2015 The group maintains surplus regulatory capital.
The group continues to hold surplus 15.
Capital: regulatory capital above the ICG set by 01 The surplus over the PRA Prudential 02 The risk that the group the PRA.
03 Regulation Authority capital guidance is assessed when determining the groups The regulatory environment continues to might have insufficient 04 actualand budgeted dividend payments be subject to change and IFRS 9, which capital to meet our toensure the buffer is maintained.
introduces expected loss accounting and will 08 05 be implemented in 2018, together with the 07 06 regulatory and or Regulatory capital is monitored monthly and new Pillar 2 capital buffers implemented under reported through the management accounts business requirements CRR, will impact regulatory capital levels.
to the Treasury Committee and the board.
or that regulatory capital All budget and plans assess the impact on regulatory capital.
requirements increase The group has a good working relationship significantly.
with its supervisor at the PRA.
Senior management and directors from all key functions are involved in the planning and production of the ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process to ensure the ICG Individual Capital Guidance set for the group and Vanquis Bank is appropriate.
Succession planning is assessed across Moneybarn has successfully scaled up 20.
employee levels in key areas to handle a 01 02 and retention: doubling of new business flows utilising 03 A recruitment strategy is established for each growth space in current building.
critical role prior to commencing recruitment.
The risk that the group is 04 All divisions have a cash-based equity plan The recruitment process embraces unable to recruit and or which is intended to provide a long-term 08 05 competency based assessments to assist in incentive for a population of staff through 07 06 retain key management finding the right person for the role.
deferred bonus arrangements based on Continued focus on retention initiatives such and staff impacting thegroups share price.
as performance management, development business performance The group, CCD and Moneybarn have plans, encouraging internal transfers wherever successfully recruited specialists to put in appropriate, performance and quality driven place three lines of defence risk management reward frameworks.
and systems and controls required by FCA Focus on employee turnover levels, exit rules and guidance these were already in interviews, monitoring and identifying place in Vanquis Bank.
trends, implementing changes to recruitment Specific areas of challenge in either recruiting andretention strategies as needed.
or retaining the right staff across all divisions Regular business updates given to employed have been identified and targeted actions are staff as well as forums encouraging open, twounderway to address them.
Employee feedback sought by way of an employee attitude survey.
Turnover, recruitment, and attendance activity regularly reviewed as part of divisional monthly MI packs.
