Risk management and internal control The Board is responsible for ensuring that The Board has delegated authority to the First line of defence an appropriate and effective system of Audit Committee to review the framework risk-taking and management internal control and risk management is and effectiveness of the Groups systems Takes and manages risk exposures in place across the Group.
The framework of internal control.
The Audit Committee in accordance with the risk appetite, of internal control and risk management is supported in this responsibility by the mandate and limits set by the Board: centres on clear delegated authorities assurance work carried out by Group-wide Identifies and reports the risks that to ensure Board oversight and control Internal Audit and the work of the business the Group is exposed to, and those of important decisions.
The framework unit audit committees, which oversee the that are emerging: is underpinned by the Group Code of effectiveness of controls in each respective Business Conduct, which sets out the business unit.
Details of how the Audit Promptly escalates any limit breaches ethical standards the Board requires Committee oversees the framework of or any violations of risk-management of itself, employees, agents and others controls and their effectiveness on an policies, mandates or instructions: working in the Group.
ongoing basis, is set out more fully in the Identifies and promptly escalates report on pages 89 to 94. significant emerging risk issues: and Internal control Risk management Manages the business to ensure The Group Governance Manual sets out full compliance with the Group risk the delegated authorities and establishes A key component of the Group management framework as set out the requirements for subsidiaries to seek Governance Manual is the Group Risk in the Group Governance Manual, approvals from or report to Group Head Framework, which requires all business which includes the Group risk Office.
Group-wide standards are units to establish processes for identifying, framework and risk policies as well established through policies and other evaluating and managing the risks facing as approvals requirements, among governance arrangements which are also the business.
included in the Group Governance Manual.
The Board determines the nature and Second line of defence Internal controls and processes, based on extent of the principal risks it is willing to risk control and oversight the provisions established in the Group take in achieving its strategic objectives.
Assists the Board to formulate and then Governance Manual, are in place across It has delegated authority to the Risk implements the approved risk appetite the Group.
These include controls for the Committee to review the Group Risk and limit framework, risk-management preparation of financial reporting.
The Framework and to approve the risk policies, plans, risk policies, risk reporting and operation of these controls and processes standards and limits within the overall risk identification processes: and facilitates the preparation of reliable Board approved risk appetite.
The Risk financial reporting and the preparation of Committee monitors the effectiveness of Reviews and assesses the risk-taking local and consolidated financial statements the Group Risk Framework and ongoing activities of the first line of defence in accordance with the applicable compliance with it through its regular and where appropriate, challenges accounting standards and requirements activities detailed in the report on pages the actions being taken to manage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
These controls 95 to 97. and control risks, and approves any include certifications by the Chief Executive significant changes to the controls The Groups risk governance and Chief Financial Officer of each business in place.
arrangements, which support the Board, unit regarding the accuracy of information the Risk Committee and the Audit provided for use in preparation of the Third line of defence Committee, are based on the principles Groups consolidated financial reporting independent assurance of the three lines of defence model: and the assurance work carried out in Provides independent assurance risk-taking and management, risk control respect of US reporting requirements.
on the design, effectiveness and and oversight, and independent assurance.
implementation of the overall system of internal control, including risk management and compliance.
84 Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information The three lines of defence model is adopted at the Group level as follows: Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Risk Committee Audit Committee 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Executives Group CEO CEC GERC GEC Group CFO Group Regulatory Group CRO Director BSCMC Management TAC GCRC GORC GwIRC GABSTOC CSC Group Finance Group Compliance Group Security Group Risk Group-wide Internal Audit Key CEC Chief Executives Committee Board-level committees GEC Group Executive Committee Executive personnel BSCMC Balance Sheet & Capital Management Committee Exec Management committees GERC Group Executive Risk Committee GHO functions TAC Technical Actuarial Committee Direct reporting line GCRC Group Credit Risk Committee Regular communication GORC Group Operational Risk Committee and escalation GwIRC Group-wide Information Risk Committee GABCSC Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Steering Committee STOC Solvency II Technical Oversight Committee Formal review of controls The system of internal control complies Effectiveness of controls with the UK Code and the HK Code, as A formal evaluation of the systems of In accordance with provision C. 2.3 of the required by the Groups primary listings internal control and risk management is UK Code and provision C. 2.1 of the HK in London and Hong Kong, as well as carried out at least annually.
The report is Code, the Board has reviewed the the relevant provisions required by the considered by the Audit Committee and effectiveness and performance of the Companys secondary listings in Risk Committee prior to the Board reaching system of risk management and internal New York and Singapore.
a conclusion on the effectiveness of the control during 2015.
This review covered For the purposes of the effectiveness systems in place.
This evaluation takes all material controls, including financial, review, the Group has followed the 2014 place prior to the publication of the operational and compliance controls, FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Annual Report.
risk-management systems and the Internal Control and Related Financial adequacy of the resources, qualifications As part of the evaluation, the Chief and Business Reporting.
In line with this and experience of staff of the Groups Executive and Chief Financial Officer of guidance, the certification provided above accounting and financial reporting function.
each business unit, including Group Head does not apply to certain material joint Office, certify compliance with the Groups The Board confirms that there is an ongoing ventures where the Group does not governance policies and the internal process for identifying, evaluating and exercise full management control.
In these control and risk management managing the significant risks faced by the cases, the Group satisfies itself that suitable requirements.
The Group Risk function Group, which has been in place throughout governance and risk management facilitates a review of the matters identified the period and up to the date of this report arrangements are in place to protect the by this certification process.
This includes and confirms that the system remains Groups interests.
However, the relevant the assessment of any risk and control effective.
Group company which is party to the joint issues reported during the year, risk and venture must, in respect of any services it control matters identified and reported by provides in support of the joint venture, the other Group oversight functions and comply with the requirements of the the findings from the reviews undertaken Groups internal governance framework.
by Group-wide Internal Audit, which carries out risk-based audit plans across the Group.
Issues arising from any external regulatory engagement are also taken into account.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 85
