Risk factors A number of risk factors affect Prudentials on the accessibility or recoverability rate environment prevailing at the time operating results and financial condition of amounts due or, for derivative of policy issue.
This results in a mismatch and, accordingly, the trading price of its transactions, adequate collateral due to the duration and uncertainty of the shares.
The risk factors mentioned below not being in place: liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient should not be regarded as a complete and assets of a suitable duration.
While this estimates of the value of financial comprehensive statement of all potential residual asset liability mismatch risk can be instruments being difficult because risks and uncertainties.
The information managed, it cannot be eliminated.
Where in certain illiquid or closed markets, given is as of the date of this document, interest rates in these markets remain lower determining the value at which financial and any forward looking statements are than those used to calculate surrender instruments can be realised is highly made subject to the reservations specified values over a sustained period, this could subjective.
Processes to ascertain such below under Forward Looking have a material adverse effect on values require substantial elements of Statements.
judgement, assumptions and estimates Prudentials approaches to managing risks which may change over time : and In the US, fluctuations in prevailing interest are explained in the Group Chief Risk rates can affect results from Jackson which increased illiquidity also adds to Officers report on the risks facing our has a significant spread based business, uncertainty over the accessibility of business and how these are managed with the majority of its assets invested in financial resources and may reduce section of this document.
In particular, fixed capital resources as valuations decline.
annuities and stable value products written Risks relating to Prudentials Global financial markets are subject to by Jackson expose Prudential to the risk business uncertainty and volatility created by a that changes in interest rates, which are not variety of factors, including concerns fully reflected in the interest rates credited Prudentials businesses are over the energy and commodity sectors, to customers, will reduce spread.
The inherently subject to market sovereign debt, general slowing in world spread is the difference between the rate fluctuations and general economic growth, the monetary policies in the US, of return Jackson is able to earn on the conditions the UK and other jurisdictions and assets backing the policyholders liabilities Prudentials businesses are inherently potentially negative socio-political events.
and the amounts that are credited to subject to market fluctuations and general In addition, a possible withdrawal of the UK policyholders in the form of benefit economic conditions.
Uncertainty or from the EU would have political, legal and increases, subject to minimum crediting negative trends in international economic economic ramifications for both the UK rates.
Declines in spread from these and investment climates could adversely and the EU, although these are expected products or other spread businesses affect Prudentials business and to be more pronounced on the UK.
that Jackson conducts, and increases in profitability.
Since 2008 Prudential has surrender levels arising from interest rate operated against a challenging background Upheavals in the financial markets may rises, could have a material impact on its of periods of significant volatility in global affect general levels of economic activity, businesses or results of operations.
capital and equity markets, interest rates employment and customer behaviour.
As a which in some jurisdictions have become result, insurers may experience an elevated Jackson also writes a significant amount negative and liquidity, and widespread incidence of claims, lapses, or surrenders of variable annuities that offer capital or economic uncertainty.
For example, of policies, and some policyholders may income protection guarantees.
The value government interest rates remain at or near choose to defer or stop paying insurance of these guarantees is affected by market historic lows in the US, the UK and some premiums.
The demand for insurance factors such as interest rates, equity Asian countries in which Prudential products may also be adversely affected.
values, bond spreads and realised operates.
These factors have, at times In addition, there may be a higher volatility and policyholder behaviour.
during this period, had a material adverse incidence of counterparty failures.
There could be market circumstances effect on Prudentials business and If sustained, this environment is likely to where the derivatives that Jackson enters profitability.
have a negative impact on the insurance into, to hedge its market risks, may not sector over time and may consequently fully cover its exposures under the In the future, the adverse effects of such have a negative impact on Prudentials guarantees.
The cost of the guarantees factors would be felt principally through business and its balance sheet and that remain unhedged will also affect the following items: profitability.
For example, this could occur Prudentials results.
investment impairments and or reduced if the recoverable value of intangible assets Jackson hedges the guarantees on its investment returns, which could reduce for bancassurance agreements and variable annuity book on an economic basis Prudentials capital and impair its ability deferred acquisition costs are reduced.
with consideration of the local regulatory to write significant volumes of new New challenges related to market position and, thus, accepts variability in business, increase the potential adverse fluctuations and general economic its accounting results in the short term in impact of product guarantees, or have conditions may continue to emerge.
order to achieve the appropriate result on a negative impact on its assets under For some non-unit-linked investment these bases.
In particular, for Prudentials management and profit: products, in particular those written in Group IFRS reporting, the measurement higher credit defaults and wider credit some of the Groups Asian operations, of the Jackson variable annuity guarantees and liquidity spreads resulting in it may not be possible to hold assets which is typically less sensitive to market realised and unrealised credit losses: will provide cash flows to match those movements than for the corresponding relating to policyholder liabilities.
This is hedging derivatives, which are held at failure of counterparties who have particularly true in those countries where market value.
However, depending on transactions with Prudential eg banks bond markets are not developed and in the level of hedging conducted regarding and reinsurers to meet commitments certain markets where regulated surrender a particular risk type, certain market that could give rise to a negative impact values are set with reference to the interest movements can drive volatility in on Prudentials financial position and 358 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information the economic or local regulatory a technical default.
Periods of economic Prudential conducts its businesses results that may be less significant under uncertainty may affect the volatility of subject to regulation and associated IFRS reporting.
market prices of sovereign debt to a greater regulatory risks, including the effects extent than the volatility inherent in debt of changes in the laws, regulations, A significant part of the profit from obligations of other types of issuers.
policies and interpretations and any Prudentials UK insurance operations accounting standards in the markets is related to bonuses for policyholders In addition, if a sovereign default or other in which it operates declared on with-profits products, which such events described above were to Changes in government policy and are broadly based on historical and current occur, other financial institutions may also legislation including in relation to tax and rates of return on equity, real estate suffer losses or experience solvency or capital controls, regulation or regulatory and fixed income securities, as well other concerns, and Prudential might face interpretation applying to companies in the as Prudentials expectations of future additional risks relating to any debt of such financial services and insurance industries investment returns.
This profit could financial institutions held in its investment in any of the markets in which Prudential be lower in a sustained low interest portfolio.
There is also risk that public operates, which in some circumstances rate environment.
perceptions about the stability and may be applied retrospectively, may creditworthiness of financial institutions adversely affect Prudentials product Prudential is subject to the risk and the financial sector generally might range, distribution channels, of potential sovereign debt credit be affected, as might counterparty competitiveness, profitability, capital deterioration owing to the amounts relationships between financial institutions.
requirements and, consequently, reported of sovereign debt obligations held If a sovereign were to default on its results and financing requirements.
in its investment portfolio obligations, or adopt policies that devalue Also, regulators in jurisdictions in which Prudential is subject to the risk of potential or otherwise alter the currencies in which Prudential operates may change the level sovereign debt credit deterioration on its obligations are denominated this of capital required to be held by individual the amounts of sovereign debt obligations could have a material adverse effect businesses or could introduce possible held in its investment portfolio.
on Prudentials financial condition and changes in the regulatory framework for results of operations.
Investing in sovereign debt creates pension arrangements and policies, the exposure to the direct or indirect regulation of selling practices and solvency Prudential is subject to the risk of consequences of political, social or requirements.
In addition, there could be exchange rate fluctuations owing economic changes including changes in changes to the maximum level of nonto the geographical diversity of governments, heads of states or monarchs domestic ownership by foreign companies its businesses in the countries in which the issuers are in certain jurisdictions.
Furthermore, as a Due to the geographical diversity of located and the creditworthiness of the result of interventions by governments in Prudentials businesses, Prudential is sovereign.
Investment in sovereign debt response to recent financial and global subject to the risk of exchange rate obligations involves risks not present economic conditions, it is widely expected fluctuations.
Prudentials operations in the in debt obligations of corporate issuers.
that there will continue to be a substantial US and Asia, which represent a significant In addition, the issuer of the debt or the increase in government regulation and proportion of operating profit based on governmental authorities that control the supervision of the financial services longer-term investment returns and repayment of the debt may be unable or industry, including the possibility of higher shareholders funds, generally write unwilling to repay principal or pay interest capital requirements, restrictions on policies and invest in assets denominated when due in accordance with the terms of certain types of transactions and enhanced in local currencies.
Although this practice such debt, and Prudential may have limited supervisory powers.
limits the effect of exchange rate recourse to compel payment in the event of fluctuations on local operating results, The European Unions Solvency II Directive a default.
A sovereign debtors willingness it can lead to significant fluctuations in came into effect on 1 January 2016.
This or ability to repay principal and to pay Prudentials consolidated financial measure of regulatory capital is more interest in a timely manner may be affected statements upon the translation of results volatile than under the previous Solvency I by, among other factors, its cash flow into pounds sterling.
This exposure is regime and regulatory policy may evolve situation, its relations with its central bank, not currently separately managed.
The European the extent of its foreign currency reserves, The currency exposure relating to the Commission will review elements of the the availability of sufficient foreign translation of reported earnings could Solvency II legislation from 2016 onwards exchange on the date a payment is due, impact on financial reporting ratios such including a review of the Long Term the relative size of the debt service burden as dividend cover, which is calculated as Guarantee measures by 1 January 2021. to the economy as a whole, the sovereign operating profit after tax on an IFRS basis, debtors policy toward local and Currently there are also a number of other divided by the dividends relating to the international lenders, and the political global regulatory developments which reporting year.
The impact of gains or constraints to which the sovereign debtor could impact the way in which Prudential losses on currency translations is recorded may be subject.
is supervised in its many jurisdictions.
as a component of shareholders funds These include the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Moreover, governments may use a variety within other comprehensive income.
Reform and Consumer Protection Act of techniques, such as intervention by their Consequently, this could impact on Dodd-Frank Act in the US, the work of central banks or imposition of regulatory Prudentials gearing ratios defined as the Financial Stability Board FSB on controls or taxes, to devalue their debt over debt plus shareholders funds.
Global Systemically Important Insurers currencies exchange rates, or may adopt The Groups surplus capital position for G-SIIs and the Common Framework for monetary and other policies including to regulatory reporting purposes may also be the Supervision of Internationally Active manage their debt burdens that have a affected by fluctuations in exchange rates Insurance Groups ComFrame being similar effect, all of which could adversely with possible consequences for the degree developed by the International Association impact the value of an investment in of flexibility the Prudential has in managing of Insurance Supervisors IAIS.
sovereign debt even in the absence of its business.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 359 Risk factors continued The Dodd-Frank Act represents a over the coming years, and a version of to select third party distributors and to comprehensive overhaul of the financial the ICS is expected to be adopted as part monitor the appropriateness of sales made services industry within the US that, among of ComFrame in late 2019. by them.
In some cases, product providers other reforms to financial services entities, can be held responsible for the deficiencies Various jurisdictions in which Prudential products and markets, may subject financial of third-party distributors.
operates have created investor institutions designated as systemically compensation schemes that require In the US, there has been significant important to heightened prudential and mandatory contributions from market attention on the different regulatory other requirements intended to prevent participants in some instances in the event standards applied to investment advice or mitigate the impact of future disruptions of a failure of a market participant.
As a delivered to retail customers by different in the US financial system.
The full impact major participant in the majority of its sectors of the industry.
As a result of of the Dodd-Frank Act on Prudentials chosen markets, circumstances could reports relating to perceptions of industry businesses is not currently clear, as many arise where Prudential, along with other abuses, there have been numerous of its provisions are primarily focused on companies, may be required to make regulatory inquiries and proposals for the banking industry, have a delayed such contributions.
This effectiveness and or require rulemaking includes focus on the suitability of sales of or other actions by various US regulators The Groups accounts are prepared in certain products, alternative investments over the coming years.
accordance with current International and the widening of the circumstances Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The IAIS has various initiatives which are under which a person or entity providing applicable to the insurance industry.
On 18 July 2013, investment advice with respect to certain The International Accounting Standards it published a methodology for identifying employee benefit and pension plans would Board IASB introduced a framework that G-SIIs, and a set of policy measures that be considered a fiduciary which would it described as Phase I, which permitted will apply to them, which the FSB endorsed.
subject the person or entity to certain insurers to continue to use the statutory Groups designated as a G-SII are subject regulatory requirements.
There is a risk basis of accounting for insurance assets and to additional regulatory requirements, that new regulations introduced may have liabilities that existed in their jurisdictions including enhanced group-wide a material adverse effect on the sales of the prior to January 2005.
In July 2010, the IASB supervision, effective resolution planning, products by Prudential and increase published its first Exposure Draft for its development of a Systemic Risk Prudentials exposure to legal risks.
Phase II on insurance accounting, which Management Plan, a Recovery Plan and would introduce significant changes to the In Asia, regulatory regimes are developing a Liquidity Risk Management Plan.
statutory reporting of insurance entities at different speeds, driven by a combination Prudentials designation as a G-SII was that prepare accounts according to IFRS.
of global factors and local considerations.
A revised Exposure Draft was issued in June New requirements could be introduced Prudential is monitoring the development 2013.
The IASB is currently redeliberating in these and other regulatory regimes and potential impact of the policy measures the Exposure Draft proposals in light of that challenge current practices, or could and is continuing to engage with the PRA comments by the insurance industry and retrospectively be applied to sales made on the implications of the policy measures other respondents.
The timing of the final prior to their introduction, which could and Prudentials designation as a G-SII.
proposals taking effect is uncertain but not have a negative impact on Prudentials The G-SII regime also introduces two types expected to be before 2020. business or reported results.
The first, a Basic Any changes or modification of IFRS Litigation, disputes and regulatory Capital Requirement BCR, is designed accounting policies may require a change investigations may adversely affect to act as a minimum group capital in the future results or a retrospective Prudentials profitability and requirement and the second, a Higher Loss adjustment of reported results.
financial condition Absorption HLA requirement reflects Prudential is, and may be in the future, the drivers of the assessment of G-SII The resolution of several issues subject to legal actions, disputes and designation.
The IAIS intends for these affecting the financial services regulatory investigations in various requirements to take effect from January industry could have a negative contexts, including in the ordinary course 2019, but G-SIIs will be expected to impact on Prudentials reported of its insurance, investment management privately report to their group-wide results or on its relations with current and other business operations.
These legal supervisors in the interim.
and potential customers actions, disputes and investigations may Prudential is, and in the future may be, The IAIS is also developing ComFrame relate to aspects of Prudentials businesses subject to legal and regulatory actions in which is focused on the supervision of and operations that are specific to the ordinary course of its business, both in large and complex Internationally Active Prudential, or that are common to the UK and internationally.
These actions Insurance Groups IAIGs.
ComFrame will companies that operate in Prudentials could involve a review of types of business establish a set of common principles and markets.
Legal actions and disputes may sold in the past under acceptable market standards designed to assist regulators in arise under contracts, regulations including practices at the time, such as the addressing risks that arise from insurance tax or from a course of conduct taken by requirement in the UK to provide redress groups with operations in multiple Prudential, and may be class actions.
to certain past purchasers of pension and jurisdictions.
As part of this, work is Although Prudential believes that it has mortgage endowment policies, changes under way to develop a global Insurance adequately provided in all material aspects to the tax regime affecting products, and Capital Standard ICS that would apply for the costs of litigation and regulatory regulatory reviews on products sold and to IAIGs.
Once the development of the matters, no assurance can be provided that industry practices, including, in the latter ICS has been concluded, it is intended to such provisions are sufficient.
Given the case, lines of business it has closed.
replace the BCR as the minimum group large or indeterminate amounts of damages capital requirement for G-SIIs.
Further Regulators interest may include the sometimes sought, other sanctions that consultations on the ICS are expected approach that product providers use might be applicable and the inherent 360 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information unpredictability of litigation and disputes, appropriate return depends significantly of direct or indirect loss resulting from it is possible that an adverse outcome could, upon its capacity to anticipate and respond inadequate or failed internal and external from time to time, have an adverse effect on appropriately to these competitive processes, systems and human error or Prudentials reputation, results of operations pressures.
Prudentials business or cash flows.
is dependent on processing a large number Downgrades in Prudentials financial of transactions across numerous and Prudentials businesses are strength and credit ratings could diverse products, and is subject to a conducted in highly competitive significantly impact its competitive number of different legal and regulatory environments with developing position and damage its relationships regimes.
Further, because of the long-term demographic trends and continued with creditors or trading nature of much of the Groups business, profitability depends upon counterparties accurate records have to be maintained managements ability to respond Prudentials financial strength and credit for significant periods.
to these pressures and trends ratings, which are used by the market to These factors, among others, result The markets for financial services in the measure its ability to meet policyholder in significant reliance on and require UK, US and Asia are highly competitive, obligations, are an important factor significant investment in information with several factors affecting Prudentials affecting public confidence in technology IT, compliance and other ability to sell its products and continued Prudentials products, and as a result operational systems, personnel and profitability, including price and yields its competitiveness.
In addition, Prudential offered, financial strength and ratings, Prudentials ratings, as a result of, for outsources several operations, including range of product lines and product quality, example, decreased profitability, increased a significant part of its UK back office and brand strength and name recognition, costs, increased indebtedness or other customer facing functions as well as a investment management performance, concerns, could have an adverse effect on number of IT functions, resulting in historical bonus levels, developing its ability to market products: retain current reliance upon the operational processing demographic trends and customer appetite policyholders: and on the Groups financial performance of its outsourcing partners.
In some of its flexibility.
In addition, the interest rates markets, Prudential faces competitors that Prudential pays on its borrowings are Although Prudentials IT, compliance and are larger, have greater financial resources affected by its credit ratings, which are other operational systems and processes or a greater market share, offer a broader in place to measure the Groups ability incorporate controls designed to manage range of products or have higher bonus to meet its contractual obligations.
and mitigate the operational risks rates.
Further, heightened competition for associated with its activities, there can be Prudential plcs long-term senior debt is talented and skilled employees and agents no assurance that such controls will always rated as A2 by Moodys, A by Standard & with local experience, particularly in Asia, be effective.
Due to human error among Poors and A by Fitch.
These ratings are all may limit Prudentials potential to grow other reasons, operational incidents do on a stable outlook.
its business as quickly as planned.
happen periodically and no system or Prudential plcs short-term debt is rated as process can entirely prevent them although In Asia, the Groups principal competitors P-1 by Moodys, A-1 by Standard & Poors there have not been any material such in the region are international financial and F1 by Fitch.
Prudentials legacy and companies, including global life insurers other IT systems and processes, as with such as Allianz, AXA, AIA and Manulife, The Prudential Assurance Company operational systems and processes and multinational asset managers such Limiteds financial strength is rated Aa3 generally, may be susceptible to failure as J. P. Morgan Asset Management, by Moodys, AA by Standard & Poors or breaches.
Schroders, HSBC Global Asset and AA by Fitch.
These ratings are all Management and Franklin Templeton.
Such events could, among other things, In a number of markets, local companies harm Prudentials ability to perform Jacksons financial strength is rated AA have a very significant market presence.
necessary business functions, result in by Standard & Poors and Fitch, A1 by the loss of confidential or proprietary data Within the UK, Prudentials principal Moodys, and A by AM Best.
These exposing it to potential legal claims and competitors include many of the major ratings have a stable outlook.
regulatory sanctions and damage its retail financial services companies and Prudential Assurance Co. Singapore reputation and relationships with its fund management companies including, Pte Ltds financial strength is rated AA business partners and customers.
Similarly, in particular, Aviva, Legal & General, Lloyds by Standard & Poors.
This rating is on any weakness in administration systems Banking Group, Standard Life, Schroders, a stable outlook.
such as those relating to policyholder Invesco Perpetual and Fidelity.
records or meeting regulatory In addition, changes in methodologies and Jacksons competitors in the US include requirements or actuarial reserving criteria used by rating agencies could result major stock and mutual insurance processes could have a material adverse in downgrades that do not reflect changes companies, mutual fund organisations, effect on its results of operations during in the general economic conditions or banks and other financial services the effective period.
companies such as AIG, AXA Financial Inc. Allianz, Prudential Financial, Lincoln Attempts by third parties to disrupt Adverse experience in the National, MetLife and Aegon.
Prudentials IT systems could result operational risks inherent in in loss of trust from Prudentials Prudentials business could disrupt Prudential believes competition will customers, reputational damage its business functions and have intensify across all regions in response and financial loss a negative impact on its results to consumer demand, technological Being part of the financial services sector, of operations advances, the impact of consolidation, Prudential and its business partners are Operational risks are present in all of regulatory actions and other factors.
increasingly exposed to the risk that Prudentials businesses, including the risk Prudentials ability to generate an third parties may attempt to disrupt the www.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 361 Risk factors continued availability, confidentiality and integrity long as the policyholder is alive.
Prudential from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed of its IT systems, which could result in conducts rigorous research into longevity funds, the shareholder transfer from disruption to the key operations, make it risk, using industry data as well as its own long-term funds and any amounts that may difficult to recover critical services, damage substantial annuitant experience.
As part be raised through the issuance of equity, assets and compromise data both of its pension annuity pricing and reserving debt and commercial paper.
This could result policy, Prudentials UK business assumes Certain of Prudentials subsidiaries in loss of trust from Prudentials customers, that current rates of mortality continuously are restricted by applicable insurance, reputational damage and financial loss.
improve over time at levels based on foreign exchange and tax laws, rules The cyber-security threat continues to adjusted data and informed by models and regulations that can limit remittances.
evolve globally in sophistication and from the Continuous Mortality In some circumstances, this could limit potential significance.
As a result of Investigation CMI as published by Prudentials ability to pay dividends to Prudentials increasing market profile, the the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
shareholders or to make available funds growing interest by customers to interact Assumptions about future expected levels held in certain subsidiaries to cover with their insurance provider and asset of mortality are also of relevance to the operating expenses of other members manager through the internet and social Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit of the Group.
media, improved brand awareness and the GMWB of Jacksons variable annuity classification of Prudential as a G-SII, there business.
If mortality improvement rates Prudential operates in a number of is an increased likelihood of Prudential significantly exceed the improvement markets through joint ventures and being considered a target by cyber assumed, Prudentials results of operations other arrangements with third criminals.
Prudential has not identified a could be adversely affected.
parties including in China and failure or breach which has had a material India, involving certain risks that A further factor is the assumption that impact in relation to its legacy and other IT Prudential does not face with respect Prudential makes about future expected systems and processes to date.
However, to its consolidated subsidiaries levels of the rates of early termination of it has been, and likely will continue to be, Prudential operates, and in certain markets products by its customers known as subject to computer viruses, attempts at is required by local regulation to operate, persistency.
This is particularly relevant unauthorised access and cyber-security through joint ventures including in China to its lines of business other than its UK attacks such as denial of service attacks and India.
For the Groups joint venture annuity business, especially Jacksons which, for example, can cause temporary operations, management control is portfolio of traditional and variable disruption to websites and IT networks, exercised jointly with the venture annuities.
Prudentials persistency phishing and disruptive software participants.
The level of control assumptions reflect recent past experience campaigns.
exercisable by the Group depends on the for each relevant line of business.
Any terms of the joint venture agreements, in Prudential is continually enhancing its IT expected change in future persistency is particular, the allocation of control among, environment to remain secure against also reflected in the assumption.
If actual and continued co-operation between, the emerging threats, together with increasing levels of future persistency are significantly joint venture participants.
Prudential may its ability to detect system compromise and different from assumed, the Groups face financial, reputational and other recover should such an incident occur.
results of operations could be adversely exposure including regulatory censure However, there can be no assurance that affected.
Furthermore, Jacksons variable in the event that any of its joint venture such events will not take place with adverse annuity products are sensitive to other partners fails to meet its obligations under consequential effects on Prudentials types of policyholder behaviour, such as the joint venture, encounters financial business and financial position.
the take-up of its GMWB product features.
difficulty or fails to comply with local or Another example is the impact of Adverse experience relative to international regulation and standards epidemics and other effects that give rise the assumptions used in pricing such as those pertaining to the prevention to a large number of deaths or additional products and reporting business of financial crime.
In addition, a significant sickness claims.
Significant influenza results could significantly affect proportion of the Groups product epidemics have occurred a number of Prudentials results of operations distribution is carried out through times over the past century but the In common with other life insurers, the arrangements with third parties not likelihood, timing or the severity of future profitability of the Groups businesses controlled by Prudential and is dependent epidemics cannot be predicted.
The depends on a mix of factors including upon continuation of these relationships.
effectiveness of external parties, including mortality and morbidity levels and trends, A temporary or permanent disruption to governmental and non-governmental policy surrenders and take-up rates on these distribution arrangements, such as organisations, in combating the spread guarantee features of products, investment through significant deterioration in the and severity of any epidemics could performance and impairments, unit cost reputation, financial position or other have a material impact on the Groups of administration and new business circumstances of the third party or material loss experience.
failure in controls such as those pertaining to the prevention of financial crime could Prudential needs to make assumptions As a holding company, Prudential adversely affect the results of operations about a number of factors in determining is dependent upon its subsidiaries of Prudential.
the pricing of its products, for setting to cover operating expenses and reserves, and for reporting its capital levels dividend payments Prudentials Articles of Association and the results of its long-term business The Groups insurance and investment contain an exclusive jurisdiction operations.
For example, the assumption management operations are generally provision that Prudential makes about future conducted through direct and indirect Under Prudentials Articles of Association, expected levels of mortality is particularly subsidiaries.
certain legal proceedings may only be relevant for its UK annuity business, where brought in the courts of England and Wales.
As a holding company, Prudentials payments are guaranteed for at least as This applies to legal proceedings by a principal sources of funds are remittances 362 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information shareholder in its capacity as such against Prudential and or its directors and or its professional service providers.
It also applies to legal proceedings between Prudential and its directors and or Prudential and Prudentials professional service providers that arise in connection with legal proceedings between the shareholder and such professional service provider.
This provision could make it difficult for US and other non-UK shareholders to enforce their shareholder rights.
Changes in tax legislation may result in adverse tax consequences Tax rules, including those relating to the insurance industry, and their interpretation may change, possibly with retrospective effect, in any of the jurisdictions in which Prudential operates.
Significant tax disputes with tax authorities, and any change in the tax status of any member of the Group or in taxation legislation or its scope or interpretation could affect Prudentials financial condition and results of operations.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 363
