| Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Principal Risks & Viability Risk Management and Internal Control Operational risks include those related to the legal The principal risks facing RIT are both financial and environment, regulation, taxation and other areas where operational.
The ongoing process for identifying, internal or external factors could result in financial or evaluating and managing these risks is the ultimate reputational loss.
These are managed by JRCM with responsibility of the Board and the Audit and Risk regular reporting to, and review by, the Audit and Risk Committee.
Day-to-day management is undertaken by Committee and the Board.
JRCM within parameters set by the Board.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of As an investment company, RIT is exposed to financial internal controls and it has delegated the supervision of risks inherent in its portfolio, which are primarily marketthe system to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Such related and common to any portfolio with significant systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, exposure to equities.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, can provide only reasonable and not absolute The Board sets the portfolio risk parameters within which assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
This involves assessment of the nature Further information is provided in the Audit and Risk and level of risk within the portfolio using qualitative and Committee Report on page 30. quantitative methods.
Principal Risks The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company as described below.
Financial Risks Mitigation Investment Strategy Risk As an investment company, a key risk is that the The Board is responsible for monitoring the investment investment strategy, guided by the Investment Policy: strategy to ensure it is appropriate to meet the Corporate Objective.
The Directors receive a detailed To invest in a widely diversified, international portfolio monthly report to enable them to monitor investment across a range of asset classes, both quoted and performance, attribution and exposure.
They also unquoted: to allocate part of the portfolio to exceptional receive a comprehensive report from the CIO in advance managers in order to ensure access to the best external of the quarterly Board meetings.
The overall risk appetite is set by the Board, with does not deliver the Corporate Objective: portfolio risk managed by JRCM within prescribed limits.
This involves careful assessment of the nature and level To deliver long-term capital growth, while preserving of risk within the portfolio using qualitative and shareholders capital: to invest without the constraints quantitative methods.
of a formal benchmark, but to deliver for shareholders increases in capital value in excess of the relevant The JRCM Investment Committee meets regularly to indices over time review overall investment performance, portfolio exposure and significant new investments.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2015 15 Principal Risks & Viability Financial Risks Mitigation Market Risk RIT invests in a number of asset categories including The Group has a widely diversified investment portfolio direct quoted equity, equity funds, private investments, which significantly reduces the exposure to individual absolute return and credit and real assets.
The portfolio asset price risk.
Detailed portfolio valuations and is therefore exposed to the risk that the fair value of exposure analysis are prepared daily, and form the basis these investments will fluctuate because of changes in for the ongoing risk management and investment market prices.
In addition, regular scenario analysis is undertaken to assess likely downside risks and Consistent with the Investment Policy, the Group sensitivity to broad market changes, as well as invests globally in instruments denominated in assessing the underlying correlations amongst the currencies other than Sterling.
This exposes the separate asset classes.
portfolio to translation risk as a result of changes in exchange rates.
Exposure management is undertaken with a variety of techniques including using equity index futures and In addition, the Group is exposed to the direct and options to hedge or to increase exposure depending on indirect impact of changes in interest rates.
overall macroeconomic and market views.
Currency exposure is managed via an overlay strategy using a combination of foreign currency borrowings, forwards and options to adjust the natural currency of the investments in order to achieve a desired net exposure.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will have Liquidity risk is not viewed as significant as a substantial difficulty in meeting its obligations in respect of financial proportion of the Groups net assets are in liquid or liabilities as they fall due.
readily realisable assets, which could be utilised to meet funding requirements if necessary.
The Group has significant investments in and commitments to direct private investments and funds The Group manages its liquid resources to ensure which are inherently illiquid.
In addition, the Group holds sufficient cash is available to meet its expected investments with other third party organisations which commitments.
It monitors the level of short-term may require notice periods in order to be realised.
funding, and balances the need for access to such funding and liquidity, with the long-term funding needs of the Group, and the desire to achieve investment returns.
Covenants embedded within the banking facilities and long-term notes are monitored on an ongoing basis for compliance, and form part of the regular stress tests.
Counterparty Credit Risk Counterparty credit risk is the risk that a counterparty to This risk is not considered significant as the vast a financial instrument held by the Group will fail to meet majority of the Groups transactions are settled on a an obligation which could result in a loss to the Group.
delivery versus payment basis using a wide pool of brokers.
Cash holdings are also divided between a Substantially all of the listed portfolio investments are number of different financial institutions.
held by BNP Paribas Securities Services as custodian.
Bankruptcy or insolvency of the custodian may cause Where local market regulations permit, all custodied the Groups rights with respect to securities held by the assets are fully segregated in designated client custodian to be delayed.
The custodians most recent credit rating was A from Standard & Poors.
16 Report and Accounts December 2015 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Principal Risks & Viability Operational Risks Mitigation Key Person Dependency In common with other self-managed investment trusts, This risk is closely monitored and managed by the Board investment decisions are made by a small number of which has established procedures in place to deal with key individuals.
If for any reason the services of these any related business disruption.
The risk is reduced by individuals were to become unavailable, there could be the combination of an experienced Board of Directors a significant impact on our business.
with distinguished backgrounds in business or finance, and experienced senior management within JRCM.
Legal & Regulatory Risk As an investment trust, RITs operations are subject to The Operational Risk Committee of JRCM provides wide ranging regulations.
The financial services sector oversight of all legal, regulatory and other operational continues to experience significant regulatory change at risks.
This Committee reports key findings to the JRCM national and international levels.
Failure to act in Executive Committee and the Audit and Risk accordance with these regulations could cause fines, Committee.
censure or other losses including taxation or JRCM employs a dedicated compliance manager as well reputational loss.
as personnel with wider experience of legal, regulatory and As a result of the close relationship and regular cotaxation matters.
In addition, specialist external advisers are investment with entities associated with the Chairman, engaged in relation to complex or sensitive matters.
conflicts of interest may arise.
Co-investments with related entities are made on the same terms.
Where necessary co-investments and other transactions are subject to review by the Conflicts Committee and or the UK Listing Authority.
Operational Risk Risks arising from inadequate or failed processes, Systems and control procedures are the subject of people and systems or external factors.
continued development and regular review.
Further detail can be found in the Internal Control section of the Key operational risks include reliance on third party Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 30. suppliers, dealing errors, processing failures, pricing errors, fraud, reliability of core systems and IT security Processes are in place to ensure the recruitment and issues.
ongoing training of appropriately skilled staff within key operational functions.
Suitable remuneration policies are in place to encourage staff retention.
Independent pricing sources are used where available and performance is subject to regular monitoring.
In relation to more subjective areas such as private investments, the valuations are estimated by experienced staff using industry standard approaches, with the final decisions taken by the independent Valuation Committee, and subject to audit.
A business continuity and disaster recovery plan is maintained, and includes the ability to utilise an offsite facility in the event of any business disruption.
This was satisfactorily tested during the year.
Cyber security has benefited from both enhanced resources and an external assessment during the year, with satisfactory results.
GVQ has its own risk management policies and systems which are monitored and overseen by its own board of directors as well as JRCM and the RIT Board.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2015 17 Principal Risks & Viability Viability Statement Going Concern In accordance with provision C2.2.
2 of the UK Corporate Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters Governance Code, and as part of an ongoing programme considered in connection with the Viability Statement, of risk assessment, the Directors have assessed the and in particular the Groups liquidity balances of prospects of the Group, to the extent that they are able, 162 million and readily realisable securities of 400 over a five-year period.
As the Company is a long-term million, the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt the investor, the Directors have chosen a five-year period as going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
this is viewed as sufficiently long term to provide The Strategic Report on pages 3 to 18 was approved by shareholders with a meaningful view, without extending the Board and signed on its behalf by: the period so far into the future as to undermine the exercise.
The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next five years.
Andrew Jones In making this assessment, the Directors have taken into Chief Financial Officer consideration the principal risks and mitigants set out on J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited the preceding pages and the impact these might have on the business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
In addition, the Directors considered the Groups current financial position and prospects, the composition of the investment portfolio including the significant holdings of liquidity and readily realisable securities, the level of outstanding capital commitments, the term structure and availability of borrowings and the ongoing costs of the business.
As part of the approach, due consideration has been given to the uncertainty inherent in financial forecasts and, where applicable, reasonable sensitivities have been applied to the investment portfolio in stress situations.
18 Report and Accounts December 2015 RIT Capital Partners plc Governance
