Capital and risk management Page Risk overview Presentation of information 134 Business model and associated risks 134 Governance, assurance and risk models 135 Risk culture and appetite 139 Risk coverage 142 Capital management Definition, overview and key developments 145 Risk appetite and strategy 145 Framework and governance 146 Capital planning 147 Stress testing 148 ICAAP 150 Recovery planning 151 Regulatory developments and RBSs current and future capital position 151 Measurement 154 Capital and leverage 154 Loss absorbing capital and senior debt roll off profile 157 RWAs 158 Liquidity and funding risk Definition 160 Overview and key developments 160 Policy, framework and governance 160 Liquidity risk 162 Key metrics 162 Liquidity portfolio Funding risk 163 Key funding metrics and sources of funding 163 Maturity analysis 166 Encumbrance 169 Business risk 171 Reputational risk 172 Conduct and regulatory risk 173 Operational risk 175 Pension risk 179 Credit risk: management basis Definition and sources 181 Overview and key developments 181 Governance 181 Risk appetite, risk measurement and models, and risk mitigation 183 Wholesale credit risk 189 Problem debt management and forbearance 191 Key credit portfolios 195 Personal credit risk 203 Problem debt management and forbearance 203 Personal portfolio overviews 205 Key credit portfolios 207 Balance sheet to CRA bridge 211 Country risk 212 Credit risk: balance sheet analysis Financial assets 214 Loans, REIL and impairment provisions 218 Securities and AFS reserves 224 Derivatives and valuation reserves 228 Market risk Definition and sources 231 Overview and key developments 231 Governance 232 Traded market risk 232 Non-traded market risk 242 133 Business review Capital and risk management Risk overview The main sources of earnings are interest income from lending Presentation of information and fee income from transactional and other services.
Given Except as otherwise indicated by an asterisk, information in increased competition and the low interest rate environment in the Capital and risk management section pages 133 to 251 is the UK, RBSs net interest margin has been under pressure.
within the scope of the Independent auditors report.
Unless RBS is reducing costs through rationalisation, integration and otherwise indicated, disclosures in this section include disposal simplification.
A major programme is in train to transform and groups businesses in relevant exposures.
Refer to pages 131 enhance the ways in which RBS operates.
and 132 for the Analyses of the balance sheet pre and postRBS has made significant progress on the accelerated disposal disposal groups.
of selected assets, with the complete divestment of Citizens, the sale of the majority of international private banking businesses, Following the deconsolidation of Citizens during 2015, to aid the run-down or sale of RCR assets one year ahead of schedule comparison, the 2014 Citizens balances have been presented as and a significant proportion of CIB Capital Resolution.
a separate line in the disclosures in the Capital and risk Completion of this process will significantly reduce or otherwise management section, with the exception of capital management improve the profile of credit and market risk faced by the bank.
and most liquidity and funding disclosures which remain in line RBS is also committed to full divestment of Williams & Glyn, with the relevant regulatory reporting basis.
The 2014 which provides retail and commercial banking services in the UK, comparatives in the Credit risk section exclude Citizens unless by the end of 2017. otherwise stated.
Business model and associated risks RBS's business model faces regulatory risk and is responding to RBS aims to become a bank that its customers and all other new and impending regulation.
In particular, RBSs business stakeholders can trust.
It is doing so by focusing on Personal & model is adapting to UK Financial Services Banking Reform Act Business Banking PBB, Commercial & Private Banking CPB requirements that retail banking operations be ring fenced - and Corporate & Institutional Banking CIB customers in its main separate and protected from more volatile undertakings - by markets of the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
By delivering only 2019. services that meet their needs, it aims to achieve an appropriate return.
Accordingly, RBS is simplifying its services as well as the These divestment, rationalisation and transformation projects processes it uses to deliver them, providing customers with better expose RBS to a high degree of execution risk over the next few value services.
It aims to become the number one bank in the UK years as it transitions to its target business model.
If not for customer service, trust and advocacy by 2020. effectively managed, this represents a potential management burden and distraction, and associated business upheaval may RBS predominantly serves UK and Republic of Ireland customers affect RBSs ability to attract the talent and skills required.
through retail and commercial banking activities.
PBB serves individual and mass affluent customers together with small An improved ability to serve customers and other stakeholders businesses, providing a variety of traditional retail banking through increased focus on key strengths in Western European products, including current and savings accounts, residential markets is intended to deliver financial robustness and stronger mortgages and credit cards in the UK through UK PBB and in the risk management.
However, it does raise geographic and product Republic of Ireland through Ulster Bank RoI.
CPB serves concentration risks within RBSs target business model.
These commercial and corporate customers in the UK and Western risks must be managed effectively in increasingly competitive and Europe and high-net-worth individuals, providing loan products fast changing target markets, while navigating industry-wide risks and investment services.
RBS International serves customers in such as those related to increasing cyber crime.
Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of Man and Gibraltar.
CIB serves UK and Western European corporates and global financial institutions RBS continues to resolve issues related to historical misconduct through three core business lines: Rates, Currencies and and unsustainable strategic decision-making.
CIB is moving towards a simpler business model and recurrence of similar issues in the future, RBS aims to underpin is re-shaping and downsizing.
its business model with a strong risk culture across its businesses, one that promotes appropriate risk awareness and judgements about risk-taking.
unaudited 134 Business review Capital and risk management RBS is also exposed to a range of other risks including pension, business, conduct, reputational and strategic risks.
These, and the business model related risks outlined above, are considered in the relevant sections below, and illustrated by the concentration of riskweighted assets by segment below.
RWAs by segment Risk governance Governance structure The risk governance structure and the main purposes of each of the committees is illustrated below: unaudited 135 Business review Capital and risk management Risk overview continued Overseeing and challenging the management of risks and Three lines of defence controls.
The three lines of defence model is used industry-wide for the Leading the articulation, design and development of RBS's management of risk.
It provides a clear set of principles by which risk culture and appetite.
to implement a cohesive operating model, one that provides a Analysing the aggregate risk profile and ensuring that risks framework for the articulation of accountabilities and are being managed to the desired level risk appetite.
responsibilities for managing risk across the organisation.
Providing expert advice to the business on risk First line of defence - Management and supervision management.
The first line of defence includes customer franchises, Providing senior executives with relevant management Technology and Operations and support functions such as HR, information and reports and escalating concerns where Communications and Financial MI.
Undertaking risk assurance see below for more Owning, managing and supervising, within a defined risk information.
appetite, the risks which exist in business areas and support functions.
Third line of defence - Internal Audit Ensuring appropriate controls are in place to mitigate risk: Responsibilities include: balancing control, customer service and competitive advantage.
Designing and delivering a risk-based audit plan to provide Ensuring that the culture of the business supports balanced assurance on material risks and report on whether RBS is risk decisions and compliance with policy, laws and managing its material risks effectively.
Monitoring, evaluating and reporting on the remediation of Ensuring that the business has effective mechanisms for material risks across RBS.
identifying, reporting and managing risk and controls.
Engaging with management and participating in key governance fora to provide perspectives, insights and Second line of defence - Oversight and control challenge so as to influence the building of a sustainable The second line of defence includes RBS Risk Management and bank.
Conduct & Regulatory Affairs, see below for further information, Advising the Group Audit Committee and executive Legal, and the financial control aspects of Finance.
management with respect to RBSs material risks and their Responsibilities include: associated controls.
Reporting any matters which warrant escalation to the RBS Working with the businesses and functions to develop the Board, the Board Risk Committee, Group Audit Committee risk and control policies, limits and tools for the business to and the Executive Committee as appropriate.
use to discharge its responsibilities.
Providing independent assurance to the FCA, PRA, CBI and other key jurisdictional regulators on both specific risks and control themes.
unaudited 136 Business review Capital and risk management Risk management structure RBSs management structure and the main elements of each role are illustrated below.
Group Chief Credit Officer Credit risk, credit approval, concentration risk, assessment of provision adequacy Director of Enterprise Stress testing, capital review, strategic risk, risk appetite, enterprise policy and Wide Risk framework, risk analytics, risk models Director of Risk Infrastructure Risk systems and risk governance Director of Operational Risk, Support Operational risk and risk oversight of support functions, Capital Resolution and Functions and Divested Businesses W&G Chief Risk Officer Director of Risk Assurance Credit quality assurance, market risk assurance and model risk management Director of Market Risk Market risk, pension risk and insurance risk Business Franchise and Regional All risks pertaining to their area Risk Directors Chief Executive RBS General Counsel RBS Legal Director of Financial Crime Financial crime advisory support across all customer businesses Directors of C&RA Advisory Conduct risk advisory support across all customer businesses Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer Director of Remediation Conduct remediation and customer redress strategies and programmes Delivery of assurance, Management information, change and support across Director of Compliance Services C&RA Director of Regulatory Affairs Management of relationships with core regulators Chief Financial Refer to the Liquidity and funding Treasurer Funding and Liquidity Risk Officer risk section for further details Notes: 1 RBS Risk Management The RBS Chief Risk Officer CRO leads RBS Risk Management.
The CRO reports directly to the Chief Executive and has an indirect reporting line to the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee and a right of access to the committees chairman.
RBS Risk Management is a function independent of the franchises, structured by risk discipline to facilitate the effective management of risk.
In 2015, Risk Management, which had previously been spread across the different business segments, re-organised itself into six functional areas: Credit Risk: Enterprise-Wide Risk: Risk Infrastructure: Operational Risk, Support Functions and Divested Businesses: Risk Assurance: and Market Risk.
Directors of Risk were also appointed for each of the franchises and for Services.
The streamlined structure consolidates risk information, allowing for more efficient decision-making.
The directors of risk functions are responsible for RBS-wide risk appetite and standards within their respective disciplines and report to the CRO.
CROs are in place for certain jurisdictions and legal entities to meet local regulatory and governance requirements.
They lead the risk management teams locally in support of functional risk heads where teams follow a functional operating model.
The key CRO roles report directly to the RBS CRO.
Risk committees in the customer businesses and key functional risk committees oversee risk exposures arising from management and business activities and focus on ensuring that they are adequately monitored and controlled.
2 Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Conduct & Regulatory Affairs C&RA is led by the Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer, who reports directly to the Chief Executive and has an indirect reporting line to the Board Risk Committee and a right of access to the committees chairman.
It is responsible for providing oversight of conduct risk and regulatory risk at RBS, and does so by setting RBS-wide policy and standards, providing advice to each customer business, and ensuring that the mitigating controls are suitable.
C&RA also provides leadership of RBSs relationships with its regulators.
The functional heads the Directors of Financial Crime, Advisory, Remediation, Compliance Services and Regulatory Affairs, report to the Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer.
Each is responsible, where appropriate, for the RBS-wide risk appetite and standards of their respective areas.
unaudited 137 Risk and Control Framework, Risk Appetite & Challenge, Oversight of Risk Management Business review Capital and risk management Risk overview continued Models used within Risk Risk assurance RBS uses a variety of models as part of its risk management Risk assurance is a second line of defence function in which process and activities.
Key examples include the use of model most of RBSs risk assurance activities are centralised.
These outputs to support risk assessments in the credit approval primarily comprise credit risk and market risk quality assurance, process, ongoing credit risk management, monitoring and controls assurance and Model Risk Management, each of which reporting, as well as the calculation of risk-weighted assets.
Other examples include the use of models to measure market risk exposures and calculate associated capital requirements, as Credit risk and market risk quality assurance: These teams well as for the valuation of positions.
The models used for stress provide assurance to both internal and external stakeholders testing purposes also play a key role in ensuring the bank holds including the Board, senior management, risk functions, sufficient capital, even in stressed market scenarios.
franchises, Internal Audit and the regulators.
For more information on the use of models in the management of Credit risk and market risk quality assurance undertake reviews particular types of risk, notably credit and market risk, refer to the which assess various aspects of risk as appropriate: including: relevant section.
the quality of risk portfolios: the completeness, suitability, accuracy and timeliness of risk measurements: the quality of risk Independent model validation management practices: policy compliance: and adherence to risk MRM performs reviews of relevant risk and pricing models in two appetite.
This includes monitoring the banks credit portfolios and instances: i for new models or amendments to existing models market risk exposures to assist in early identification of emerging and ii as part of its ongoing programme to assess the risks, as well as undertaking targeted reviews to examine specific performance of these models.
concerns raised either by these teams or by their stakeholders.
A new model is typically introduced when an existing model is The Risk Assurance Committee RAC provides governance to deemed no longer fit for purpose or when exposure to a new ensure a consistent and fair approach to all aspects of the review product requires a new approach to ensure that risks are activities of credit and market risk assurance.
Amendments are usually made when a monitors and validates the ongoing programme of reviews and weakness is identified during use of a model or following analysis tracks the remediation of review actions.
The credit and market either by the model developers or by MRM.
risk assurance teams also attend relevant committees run by the customer franchises and other risk functions to ensure strong MRMs independent review comprises some or all of the following communication channels are maintained.
steps, as appropriate: Controls assurance: This team tests the adequacy and effectiveness of key controls relating to credit and market risk, Testing and challenging the logical and conceptual including those within the scope of Section 404 of the US soundness of the methodology: Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Since the teams creation in late Testing the assumptions underlying the model, where 2014, testing has primarily covered key controls within CIB and feasible, against actual behaviour.
In its validation report, CPB.
MRM will opine on the reasonableness and stability of the assumptions and specify which assumptions, if any, should Model risk management be routinely monitored in production: Model governance Testing whether all key appropriate risks have been Model governance follows a three lines of defence approach, with sufficiently captured: model developers having primary accountability and Model Risk Checking the accuracy of calculations: Management MRM acting in a  capacity.
Comparing outputs with results from alternative methods: Testing parameter selection and calibration: MRM is responsible for setting policy, providing governance and Ensuring model outputs are sufficiently conservative in insight for all of RBSs statistical, economic, financial or areas where there is significant model uncertainty: mathematical models and performing independent model Confirming the applicability of tests for accuracy and validation where necessary.
It works with individual businesses to stability: recalculating and ensuring that results are robust: set appropriate model standards, and monitor adherence to and these, to ensure that models are developed and implemented Ensuring appropriate sensitivity analysis has been appropriately and that their operational environment is fit for performed and documented.
Going forward, MRM will be responsible for defining and Based on the review and findings from MRM, the banks model or monitoring model risk appetite in conjunction with model risk committees with appropriate delegated authority consider developers, monitoring the model risk profile and reporting on the whether a model can be approved for use and whether any model population and escalating issues to senior management.
conditions need to be imposed, including those relating to the remediation of material issues raised through the review process.
The general approach to MRMs independent model validation for Once approved through internal governance, the new or risk and pricing models is detailed below.
For more specific amended model is implemented.
Models used for regulatory information relating to market risk models and pricing models, reporting may additionally require regulatory approval before refer to page 242.
For more specific information relating to credit implementation.
risk models, refer to page 18 of the Pillar 3 Report 2015. unaudited 138 Business review Capital and risk management MRM reassesses the appropriateness of approved risk models A simple decision-making guide called the YES check has on a periodic basis according to the approved Periodic Review been included in the Code of Conduct.
It is a simple, intuitive set Policy.
Each periodic review begins with an initial assessment.
A of five questions, designed to ensure the values guide day-to-day decision is then made by an internal model governance decisions: committee with appropriate delegated authority.
Based on the initial assessment, the committee will decide to re-ratify a model Does what I am doing keep our customers and RBS safe based on the initial assessment or to carry out additional work and secure?
In the initial assessment, MRM Would customers and colleagues say I am acting with assesses changes since the last approval along the following integrity?
dimensions, as appropriate: change in size composition of the Am I happy with how this would be perceived on the portfolio, market changes, model performance, model changes, outside?
status of any outstanding issues, scheduled activities including Is what I am doing meeting the standards of conduct work carried over from previous reviews.
In five years time would others see this as a good way to MRM also monitors the performance of RBSs portfolio of work?
By engaging with the business and model users, MRM assesses whether models still capture underlying business Each question is a prompt to think about the situation and how it rationale appropriately.
It ensures that employees can think through decisions that do not have a clear answer, guiding the Risk culture and appetite judgements behind their decisions and actions.
Risk culture A strong risk culture, as part of a healthy organisational culture, is If conduct falls short of RBSs required standards, the essential to the realisation of RBSs ambition to build a truly accountability review process is used to assess how this should customer-centric bank.
be reflected in pay outcomes for those individuals concerned.
The Group Performance and Remuneration Committee also It seeks to create a strong risk culture that becomes part of the consider risk performance and conduct when determining overall way people work and think.
Such a culture should be supported bonus pools.
The Committees decisions on pay aim to reinforce by robust practices on risk identification, measurement and the need for good behaviours by all employees.
management, and on associated controls and governance.
Risk competencies, mindsets and behaviours needed to support RBSs policies require that risk behaviour assessment is RBSs risk culture should be embedded across the organisation incorporated into performance assessment and compensation and made integral to performance reviews.
processes for enhanced governance staff.
In 2015 RBS made significant steps in measuring and Risk-based key performance indicators benchmarking its risk culture across all areas of the bank.
This RBS-wide remuneration policy requires remuneration to be has resulted in agreement on its target risk culture and initiatives aligned with, and to support, effective risk management.
While changing organisational culture will policy ensures that the remuneration arrangements for all take time, RBSs risk culture objectives form a key part of employees reflect the principles and standards prescribed by the individual performance objectives at all levels of the bank.
For further information refer to page 65.
RBSs target risk culture is clearly aligned to its core values of Training serving customers, working together, doing the right thing Enabling employees to have the capabilities and confidence to and thinking long term.
They act as a clear starting point for a manage risk is core to RBSs learning strategy.
strong and effective risk culture.
RBS offers a wide range of risk learning across the risk Aligned to these values is the Code of Conduct.
The Code disciplines: Market Risk: Credit Risk: Operational Risk: Enterprise provides guidance on expected behaviour and sets out the Risk: and Conduct and Regulatory Risk.
This training can be standards of conduct that support the values.
It explains the mandatory, role specific or for personal development and effect of decisions that are taken and describes the principles that includes technical and behavioural content.
There is mandatory learning that has to be completed by These principles cover conduct-related issues as well as wider everyone and is focused on keeping employees, customers and business activities.
They focus on desired outcomes, with the bank safe.
This learning is accessed via the online learning practical guidelines to align the values with commercial strategy system and is dependent on their role and business area.
The embedding of these principles facilitates sound makes it easy for employees to access and complete and allows decision making and a clear focus on good customer outcomes.
monitoring at all levels to ensure completion.
They are aligned with the people management and remuneration processes to support a positive and strong risk culture through appropriate incentive structures.
unaudited 139 Business review Capital and risk management Risk overview continued The strategic risk objectives are the bridge between the RBSRisk appetite wide business strategy and the frameworks, limits and tolerances Risk appetite is the way in which RBS expresses the level of risk that are used to set risk appetite and manage risk in the business it is willing to accept in order to achieve its strategic, business franchises on a day-to-day basis.
Risk appetite measures It is key to ensuring overall safety and soundness and in Risk appetite starts with the strategic goals set by the Board and embedding a strong risk culture throughout RBS.
is cascaded through key limits and risk tolerances that influence decision-making at all levels.
The Board reviews and approves the risk appetite framework annually, establishing the level and types of risks RBS is able Risk appetite is set in a manner that: and willing to take in order to meet its: Is aligned to business and financial goals.
The risk appetite Strategic objectives - The strategic plan is built on the core framework ensures that risk is managed in a manner that foundations of serving customers well, building a aligns to and supports the attainment of business and sustainable risk profile and creating long-term value for its financial objectives.
shareholders: and Is meaningful to the business.
Where possible risk appetite Wider obligations to stakeholders - If RBS is safe and sound is expressed quantitatively and in a manner that can be and puts serving customers at the heart of its thinking, it will cascaded meaningfully and unambiguously to the business.
also perform well for its owners, employees, regulators and Risk control frameworks and limits set detailed tolerances communities.
and limits for managing risk such as credit risk and market risk on a day-to-day basis.
These limits support, and are Risk appetite is set for material risks and is cascaded and required to be consistent with, the strategic risk appetite.
It clearly informs, guides and empowers Considers performance under stress.
The establishment the businesses to execute their strategies within risk appetite.
and monitoring of risk appetite considers potential risk Strategic risk appetite exposures and vulnerabilities under plausible stress RBSs risk appetite framework is designed to ensure RBS conditions remains safe and sound and serves customers and wider Effective processes exist for frequent reporting of RBSs risks stakeholders.
against agreed risk appetite to the Board and senior The Board has set out four key strategic risk appetite objectives, management.
aligned with the strategic plan, which provide the boundaries within which the risk appetite for all material risks is set.
The Risk appetite statements strategic risk appetite objectives are: Risk appetite statements provide clarity on the scale and type of activities permitted, in a manner that is easily communicated.
To ensure there is sufficient capital resources to meet regulatory requirements and to Risk appetite is set at RBS-wide level then cascaded and cover the potential for unexpected losses.
embedded across all businesses and support functions.
To ensure that strategic growth is based around a longer-term risk-versus reward Each franchise, RBS-wide material risk owner, function and consideration, RBS sets risk appetite to remain profitable material legal entity is required to develop, own and manage a under severe stress.
risk appetite statement that: Designed to ensure stable and efficient access to funding Evidences alignment with strategic objectives and financial and liquidity.
To ensure that there is sufficient funding to plans.
meet its obligations, taking account of the constraint that Articulates the level of acceptable risk for all risks deemed some forms of funding may not be available when they are material.
Articulates the escalation path to be followed in the instance Maintain stakeholder confidence.
To ensure that RBS is of a breach in risk appetite.
respected, valued and trusted by stakeholders customers, employees, debt and equity investors, regulators and the wider community to attain its strategic objectives, and establish and maintain an appropriate business culture and operational controls.
unaudited 140 Business review Capital and risk management Risk control frameworks and limits Our priorities and long-term targets Risk control frameworks and their associated limits are an integral part of the risk appetite framework and a key part of embedding risk appetite in day-to-day risk management decisions.
The risk control frameworks manage risk by Risk appetite for strategic risk objectives expressing a clear tolerance for material risk types that is aligned to business activities.
The RBS Policy Framework directly supports the qualitative Risk appetite for material risks aspects of risk appetite, helping to rebuild and maintain stakeholder confidence in RBSs risk control and governance.
Its integrated approach is designed to ensure that appropriate controls, aligned to risk appetite, are set for each of the material Risk limit frameworks for material risks risks it faces, with an effective assurance process put in place to monitor and report on performance.
Risk appetite has its own policy within the RBS Policy Framework.
This policy sets out clear roles and responsibilities to set, measure, cascade and Franchise Function Legal entity report performance against risk appetite, and provides risk risk risk appetite appetite appetite assurances that business is being conducted within approved risk statements statements statements limits and tolerances.
The communication of risk appetite helps embed appropriate risk taking into the banks culture.
unaudited 141 Business review Capital and risk management Risk overview continued Risk coverage The main risk types faced by RBS are presented below.
For further information, refer to pages 145 to 251.
Risk type How the risk arises 2015 overview 1 Capital adequacy Capital adequacy risk arises Capital strength continued to improve throughout 2015, driven by the risk from inefficient management successful execution of exit strategy including the disposal of Citizens and of capital resources.
continued fide-risking of the balance sheet, primarily in Capital Resolution.
RBSs CET1 ratio improved from 11.2% to 15.5% at 31 December 2015 despite absorbing the 0.7% impact of the pension accounting policy change and 0.8% impact from additional US RMBS and PPI provisions of 2 billion during Q4 2015.
Capital structure extended and leverage ratio improved through issuance of 2 billion AT1 capital notes in August 2015.
RWAs have reduced by 113 billion from 356 billion to 243 billion, ahead of our year-end target of 300 billion, driven by the disposal of Citizens 63 billion and the continued progress of Capital Resolution down 46 billion.
There were further small reductions across most core business.
Leverage ratio improved from 4.2% to 5.6% reflecting the improvements in capital strength, including AT1 issuance, as well as reduction in funded assets by 145 billion from 697 billion to 553 billion.
RBS would have a GSIB capital surcharge requirement of 1.0% of RWAs, based on the FSBs most recent determination of RBSs systemic importance, a reduction from 1.5% previously.
Liquidity and Liquidity and funding risk The liquidity portfolio increased by 5 billion in the year to 156 billion, funding risk arise through the maturity primarily reflecting the strategic run-down of Capital Resolution loans transformation role that RBS faster than the associated liabilities and proceeds from the Citizens share performs and arises from sales: this was offset to some extent by UK PBB and Commercial Banking day-to-day operations.
Short-term whoesale funding STWF including derivative collateral decreased by 16 billion to 38 billion mainly due to the maturity of term debt issued during the financial crisis.
STWF excluding derivative collateral covering short-term wholesale funding STWF, by more than nine times.
LCR was 136% at 31 December 2015, with the improvement from 112% at year end 2014 primarily reflecting the strategic run-down of Capital Resolution assets at a faster rate than their associated liabilities.
The ratio was strengthened by the placing of surplus Capital Resolution liabilities in short-term liquid assets.
NSFR, based on RBSs interpretation of the Basel framework, had increased to 121% at 31 December 2015 from 112% at 31 December 2014.
The increase in the metric is also partly due to the reduced need for stable funding as a result of Capital Resolution rundown.
The customer loan:deposit ratio reduced to 89% compared with 95% at the end of 2014.
This reflects the strategic run down of Capital Resolution loans and higher retail and commercial deposits, this was partly offset by loan growth within UK PBB and Commercial Banking.
Based on its assessment of the PRAs proposals, RBS may issue between 3-5 billion per annum during 2016-2019 to meet MREL requirements.
Business risk Business risk arises from RBS reduced its business risk profile by implementing its strategic plan to exposure to, and the ability to shift the business mix towards the UK and the retail and commercial assess the impact of, banking segments, with riskier activities in CIB and Capital Resolution changes in the macrocurtailed via disposals and run-down.
environment, competition, RBS continued with its simplification agenda and cost reduction business operations and programme.
Note: 1 Refer to page 419 for abbreviations and acronyms.
unaudited 142 Business review Capital and risk management Risk type How the risk arises 2015 overview Reputational risk Reputational risk can arise The importance of reputational risk was reinforced with the implementation from the conduct of of a Reputational Risk Policy across business franchises and functions to employees: activities of improve the identification, assessment and management of customers and customers and the countries issues that present a reputational risk.
in which they operate: The most material threats to RBSs reputation continued to originate from provision of products and historical and more recent conduct issues.
As a result, RBS has been the transactions: as well as subject of investigations and reviews by a number of its regulators, some of operations and infrastructure.
which have resulted in fines and public censure.
Conduct and Conduct risk arises if Conduct and litigation costs were 3.6 billion in 2015 compared with 2.2 regulatory risk customers are not treated in billion in 2014 and included additional provisions of 2.1 billion for historical line with their and other investment banking activity in the US and 0.6 billion for PPI.
continued to remediate historical conduct issues, while also focusing its Conduct risk also arises if customer-facing businesses and support functions around the needs of its RBS does not take effective customers.
action to prevent fraud, A new Conduct Risk Appetite Framework was established.
bribery and money RBS implemented programmes to prepare for ring-fencing and the UKs laundering.
new individual accountability regime, as well as other future regulatory requirements: there was significant investment in anti-money laundering Regulatory risk arises from controls, governance and training.
RBSs regulatory, business or operating environments and RBSs response to them.
Operational risk Operational risk arises from a The functional operating model for operational risk was embedded, with the failure to manage operations, aim of ensuring this is managed consistently across RBS.
This transactions and assets supplemented work by the customer businesses to improve understanding appropriately.
It may arise of the operational risk profile and the actions required to mitigate risks from human error, an inability outside of appetite.
to deliver change on time or Following the major IT incident of 2012, there was further significant adequately, or the investment in upgrading RBSs core banking technology infrastructure and unavailability of technology in improving a broad range of processes and tools.
services or the loss of customer data.
Fraud and The threat to the security of RBSs information from cyber attacks theft are sources of continued to be closely monitored.
During 2015 RBS participated in operational risk, as is the industry-wide cyber attack simulations in order to help test and develop impact of natural and mandefence planning.
Actions taken to mitigate the risk included a large-scale made disasters.
It may also programme to improve user access controls, a reduction in the number of arise from a failure to take external websites, and enhanced protection against malware.
appropriate measures to Operational Risk continued to oversee the execution of major projects, protect assets or take account including the transformation plan, the restructuring of CIB and the of changes in law.
This ensured the associated risks were assessed and understood with mitigating activity in place wherever possible.
unaudited 143 Business review Capital and risk management Risk overview continued Risk type How the risk arises 2015 overview Pension risk RBS is exposed to pension Following developments in pension accounting and reporting during 2015, risk through its defined benefit RBS revised its policy for determining whether or not it has an schemes and the variations in unconditional right to a refund of any surpluses in its employee pension their value.
funds and also revised prior periods.
The incremental impact of this, combined with the one-off accelerated payment expected to be made in 2016, is anticipated to improve RBSs risk profile, capital planning, and resilience through the period to 2019.
The accelerated payment is also expected to provide the Main Scheme Trustee with more flexibility over investment strategy.
Subject to PRA approval, the adverse CET1 capital impact resulting from the accounting policy change and the accelerated payment is expected to be partially offset by a reduction in CET1 capital requirements.
Any such core capital offsets are likely to occur at the earliest from 1 January 2017, but they will depend on the PRAs assessment of RBSs CET1 capital position at that time.
Credit risk Credit risk arises from lending Overall credit risk exposure decreased in 2015 in line with RBSs strategy and AFS debt securities.
to decrease exposure in non-strategic regions.
The growth in UK PBB Counterparty credit risk gross mortgage lending reflected our strategy to refocus the business on results from derivatives and the UK market, as well as improving economic conditions and increasing securities financing house prices in a continuing low interest environment.
Risk appetite limits for the sector and product and asset class frameworks were reduced taking account of the revised risk appetite associated with the restructured CIB business.
Asset quality improved due to continued focus on reducing risk concentrations and the reduction in exit portfolios driven by the RCR disposal strategy as well as improving economic and market conditions in the UK and Ireland.
Deteriorating market conditions in the Oil & Gas and Mining & Metals sectors have led to heightened credit monitoring in these sectors.
However, there was no material deterioration in asset quality during 2015 with the majority of the portfolios remaining investment grade.
Overall credit metrics strengthened in 2015 principally reflecting Capital Resolution disposals but also the impact of supportive economic conditions: Impairment provisions of 7.1 billion 2014 - 18.0 billion covered REIL of 12.2 billion 2014 - 28.2 billion by 59% 2014 - 64%.
CRE lending fell to 27.6 billion from 43.3 billion at the end of 2014, of which 3.6 billion 2014 - 13.3 billion was REIL with provision coverage of 58% 2014 - 68%.
Market risk The majority of RBSs traded Average trading internal VaR decreased to 18.9 million 2014 - 27.8 market risk exposure arises in million, reflecting strategic exits including from US asset-backed products CIB and Capital Resolution trading in the first half of 2015. through transactions in RWAs decreased by 2.8 billion to 21.2 billion, primarily in Capital financial instruments including Resolution.
debt securities, loans, Non-trading interest rate VaR was significantly lower following the deposits and equities, as well divestment of Citizens.
as securities financing and derivatives.
The majority of its non-traded market risk exposure arises from retail and commercial banking activities in all franchises from assets and liabilities that are not classified as held for trading.
unaudited 144 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management Risk appetite and strategy Definition Risk appetite Capital management lies at the core of RBSs strength and The RBS risk appetite framework establishes appetite targets on sustainability goals.
RBS defines capital as that part of the liability quantitative and qualitative measures which are set by the Board, side of its balance sheet that has the capacity to absorb losses.
aligned with its key strategic risk objectives.
The construction of capital starts with Common Equity Tier 1 RBS has a capital management framework including policies and CET1 and other classes of capital such as Additional Tier 1 procedures that are designed to measure actual and projected AT1 and Tier 2.
RBS will build up sufficient minimum capital performance against risk appetite, ensures that it requirements for eligible liabilities MREL over the coming years continues to comply with regulatory requirements and is in line with regulatory requirements.
Capital management positioned to meet anticipated future changes to its capital involves the optimisation and efficient use of capital required by requirements.
the banks businesses, the outcomes of stress testing, the RBSs capital risk appetite, which informs its capital targets, is requirements of the market and the regulators and the supply of reviewed and set annually by the Board.
Capital risk appetite sets adequate forms of capital at acceptable prices.
target ratios for CET1 and leverage under stress scenarios and All the disclosures in this section are unaudited.
These then inform capital targets for CET1 and leverage.
RBS also looks at other factors that may impact Overview and key developments capital targets such as double leverage, distributable reserves, Capital strength continued to improve during 2015, driven by capital headroom to Maximum Distributable Amount MDA and the successful execution of exit strategy including the intra group limits and exposures.
Risk appetites are also set at disposal of Citizens and continued fide-risking of the balance legal entity level and may encompass additional specific risk sheet, primarily in Capital Resolution.
CET1 ratio improved measures such as intra group exposures and limits and double from 11.2% to 15.5% at end 2015 despite absorbing the leverage.
0.7% impact of the pension accounting policy change 0.4% on a pro forma basis at end 2014 and 0.8% impact from Strategy additional US RMBS and PPI provisions of 2 billion during RBS maintains a sufficient level of capital that allows it to operate Q4 2015. over its strategic horizon with an agreed risk appetite in pursuit of Capital structure extended and improved leverage ratio its business strategy, taking into account regulatory through the over-subscribed issuance of US$3.15 billion 2 requirements, support for customers and to provide confidence to billion AT1 capital notes in August 2015. stakeholders.
RWAs have reduced by 113 billion from 356 billion to RBS is able to accumulate additional capital through the 243 billion, ahead of year end target of 300 billion, driven reduction in RWAs either through disposals or natural attrition by the disposal of Citizens 63 billion and the continued accumulation of profits over time, by raising new equity via, for progress of Capital Resolution down 46 billion.
There example, a rights issue or debt exchange and by raising AT1 and were further small reductions across most core businesses.
Tier 2 capital by issuing subordinated liabilities.
The cost and The fide-risking throughout 2015 has allowed RBS to free up availability of additional capital is dependent upon market capital into the core franchises, helping to align to our conditions and perceptions at the time.
RBS is also able to strategy of becoming a more focused bank better able to manage the demand for capital through management actions serve our customers in our key markets.
including adjusting its lending strategy, risk hedging strategies Leverage ratio improved from 4.2% to 5.6% reflecting the and through business disposals.
improvements in capital strength, including AT 1 issuance The level of CET1 at the consolidated level and within specific as well as reduction in leverage exposure, as funded assets legal entities is the cornerstone of capital strategy.
fell by 145 billion to 553 billion.
The pension accounting Complementing CET1, RBS issues externally and will allocate policy change lowered the leverage ratio by approximately internally AT1 capital, Tier 2 capital and looking forward, MREL 0.2% at 31 December 2015 and on a pro forma basis at end instruments in accordance with internal needs, regulatory 2014. requirements and strategic plans.
The amount of additional RBSs current Pillar 2A requirement was 5.0% of RWAs at 31 December 2015, with 56% met by CET1 capital 2.8%.
capital is determined as part of the annual budgeting cycle, by The Prudential Regulation Authority PRA Pillar 2A market conditions and through ongoing dialogue with regulators.
assessment is a point in time measure of the amount of It is under constant review and evaluation to ensure that it capital that is required to be held to meet the overall provides efficient and optimally valued benefits to the bank at all financial adequacy rules.
This assessment may change over times.
time, including as a result of an at least annual supervisory The capital raising strategy is driven by two factors: the optimal review and evaluation of RBSs internal capital adequacy blend to satisfy regulatory requirements, and the most cost assessment process.
RBS has a range of instruments Based on PRAs proposals on MREL being twice current available to it both internally and externally.
RBS also has legacy minimum Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A requirements, RBSs current capital instruments that may still have some transitional benefits MREL rates equivalent would be approximately 13%.
under the changing regulatory framework.
RBS constantly looks Based on CRR requirements being phased in by 2019, RBS at the value and efficiency provided by those instruments and will would have a GSIB surcharge requirement of 1.0% take such market related actions to the extent that circumstances previously 1.5% of RWAs, based on the FSBs most recent and conditions merit such action.
RBSs policy is to manage its determination of RBSs systemic importance.
externally issued portfolio of debt securities for value.
unaudited 145 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management continued Framework and governance The framework for capital management within RBS first looks at the sources and drivers of risk based capital requirements.
Through the internal budget and planning cycle, and increasingly through stress testing, each franchise balances the blend of products that is offered to customers, having regard to the impact of each on capital and leverage against the backdrop of the overall business strategy A number of tools and processes taken together contribute to an integrated view of capital management.
The diagram below is used to present this view: Governance The Board sets the strategic direction and ensures RBS manages risk effectively by approving and monitoring RBSs strategic risk appetite, considering RBS-wide stress scenarios and agreed mitigants, as well as identifying longer-term strategic threats to the business operations.
The Board also approves the ICAAP.
Capital planning Stress Testing and use of Recovery and resolution planning RBS uses the budgeting cycle to forecast This is an integral part of capital planning.
RBS prepares an annual recovery plan, future capital requirements at CET1, Tier 1, Stress testing results are produced through which include a framework of indicators Tier 2 and total capital levels including the same capital planning and stress identifying the points at which appropriate MREL at both RBS level and major testing models used for the budgeting and actions may be taken in the event of operating entity level.
unexpected weaknesses in its capital or measured against minimum regulatory In addition to informing the ICAAP, stress liquidity resulting from either idiosyncratic requirements and specific regulatory testing in RBS is a key risk management or systemic stress, as well as a menu of guidance such as the Individual Capital tool used to support strategic financial options for addressing such weaknesses.
planning, risk appetite, risk identification RBSs 2015 Recovery Plan was prepared Strategic considerations in the mediumand risk mitigation.
in line with the PRAs requirement that term capital plan will be driven by key Stress testing results are presented to banks prepare, maintain and review impacts such as a more restrictive senior management and BRC Board recovery plans.
approach to the capital base, higher capital periodically, and used to assess capital ratio targets and enhanced risk coverage.
impacts of business decisions Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP The ICAAP assesses RBSs material risks determining how much capital is required to cover these risks.
The ICAAP consists of two types of internal capital assessment: a Point-in-time capital assessment as at the financial year end, and a Forward-looking stress capital assessment.
The final ICAAP is approved by the Board prior to submission to the PRA.
Assessing, monitoring and maintaining Board Risk Committee BRC Capital Risk Assessment CRA adequate capital.
It is RBSs policy to build With sight of various risk types the Board CRAs are annual top down processes to and sustain a strong capital base and to Risk Committee BRC is responsible for help identify, understand and assess use it efficiently throughout its activities to providing oversight and advice to the material risks.
Consideration is given to support strategic objectives and optimise Board in relation to current and potential whether and how much capital should be shareholder returns while maintaining a future risk exposures of RBS and future set aside against each risk type forming a prudent relationship between its capital risk strategy, including determination of risk key input to the ICAAP.
For effective risk base and the underlying risks of the appetite and tolerance.
management CRAs are marked against business, including the risk of excessive financial or non-financial thresholds.
unaudited 146 Business review Capital and risk management Capital planning Capital policies and procedures are subject to independent Capital and leverage is actively managed and regulatory ratios oversight.
Regular reporting of actual and projected capital and are a key factor in the Groups planning processes and stress leverage ratios, including those in stressed scenarios, is analyses.
Capital planning is an activity undertaken within undertaken, including submissions to the ALCo, ERF, EXCo, Treasury to determine the appropriate amount of capital needed Board Risk Committee and the Board.
over the budget horizon under both base and stress projections using both risk and leverage based assessment tools and given a The regulatory framework within which RBS operates continues specific risk appetite.
to be developed at a global level through the FSB and Basel Committee, at a European level mainly through the issuance of Capital plans are derived for RBS overall and its major operating, CRD IV technical standards and guidelines and within the UK by regulated entities.
Capital plans are prepared in compliance with the PRA and through directions from the FPC.
specific regulatory rules for example CRD IV and in accordance with system wide and local, specific regulatory guidance.
Capital RBS continues to monitor regulatory developments very closely, plans for UK regulated entities are drawn up centrally whereas analysing the potential capital impacts to ensure RBS continues capital plans for non-UK regulated entities are drawn up locally to maintain a strong capital position that exceeds the minimum and subject to central review and challenge to ensure regulatory requirements and risk appetite and is consistent with consistency of approach and adherence to capital management market expectations.
Capital requirements: Pillar 1 and 2 The starting point for any capital plan will be with the annual Capital demand is normally the aggregation of Pillar 1, Pillar 2A, budget cycle which forecasts the banks balance sheet trajectory the greater of the CRD IV or Pillar 2B buffers, and any over a 5 year forward looking horizon.
The budget cycle will management buffer for example over and above MDA.
Pillar 2 incorporate assumptions about the future shape and direction of is becoming an increasingly important component of our capital the balance sheet of RBS and its operating entities.
assumptions around the future path of RWAs, profitability and tax.
Idiosyncratic factors such as conduct and litigation costs and Pillar 2A is determined through the ICAAP process mentioned disposals are also considered.
Finally known or expected system herein and reflects RBS specific risks.
Factors driving Pillar 2 or firm specific regulatory guidance for example phasing in of requirements include operational risk, interest rate risk in the CRD IV assumptions or leverage requirements are also banking book, credit concentration risk and pension risk amongst considered.
The Pillar 2B requirement and recently introduced PRA buffer The capital plans are tested for capital adequacy and measured reflects the impact of stress through the analysis undertaken in against the banks risk appetite framework using a range of annual ICAAP.
The amount of stress capital may well also be stress scenarios covering adverse economic conditions as well informed by performance under the new regulatory stress testing as other adverse factors that could impact the bank.
The amount of stress based capital requirement is the the bank maintains a recovery plan which sets out a range of higher of Pillar 2B or the CRD IV risk buffers plus any potential mitigating actions that could be taken in response to an management buffer.
Known and expected assumptions around the future direction of regulation is also taken into account.
A management buffer may be overlaid on top of that to reflect Furthermore specific idiosyncratic risks such as conduct risk are additional risks that the Board believe are prudent to cover such factored into capital plans.
as headroom over and above any MDA threshold.
From these inputs a forecast will be derived on how much capital Capital supply is required to support these assumptions using both risk and Capital supply consists of the amount of CET1, AT1, Tier 2 and, leverage based approaches.
This will estimate the required going forward, non-capital MREL securities in existence at any amount of CET1 through to non-capital minimum requirement one time.
eligible liabilities MREL in each period over the forecast.
The capital planning process determines the most efficient mix between these different types of security in keeping with the Once the capital plan is approved it is then subject to ongoing banks strategic plans and risk appetite.
Considerations include: review and assessment to reflect changes to the underlying Internal risk appetite including stress testing : components such as forecasts or new regulatory guidance or Regulatory policies and guidance: and assumptions.
Shorter term forecasts are more frequently Market conditions and expectations.
undertaken to understand and respond to variations of actual performance against the plan.
The bank will issue capital securities from time to time and may engage in selective buy backs, liability management exercises and other market actions in line with its stated risk appetite and other metrics.
RBSs policy is to manage its externally issued unaudited portfolio of debt securities for value.
147 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management continued Stress testing The diagram below summarises a number of areas where stress testing is used within RBS.
These include four overall categories, including strategic, financial and capital planning, risk appetite, risk identification and risk mitigation.
Stress testing usage within RBS 1 Strategic financial & capital planning Assess impact of plausible downside scenarios on financial position.
Assessment of strategic plans against market concerns and headwinds.
2 Risk appetite Better understanding of underlying risks to inform the setting of risk appetite e. g. sector reviews, earnings volatility, reverse stress test.
Assess the impact of current business strategies on risk appetite.
Identify drivers of risk appetite triggers.
3 Risk identification Manage business through improved understanding of the underlying risk.
Examples: Tail risk assessment: identification of risky portfolios that breach a series of pre-determined triggers.
Business vulnerabilities analysis: assessment of business model weaknesses through cross-functional discussions.
Identify high-risk portfolios to be investigated further.
4 Risk mitigation Inform mitigating actions within RBS and segmental strategic plans.
Determine a schedule of potential management actions to be executed in the event of stress.
unaudited 148 Business review Capital and risk management Stress testing process and techniques Portfolio-specific stress tests assess the reaction of key portfolios The stress testing process has four key stages.
to systemic shocks and identify potential vulnerabilities, including risks that have not yet matured or are not yet visible.
They Stress scenario definition: assess the potential for outsized losses and the impact of RBS-specific vulnerabilities are identified and linked to rebalancing portfolios.
the development of relevant stresses: Scenario is defined, severity calibrated and parameters Regulatory stress test exercises established: and RBS also takes part in external stress tests as part of wider Governance is put in place for stress theme approval stress testing frameworks implemented by regulatory authorities and scenario validation.
to test industry-wide vulnerabilities under crystallising global Stress test execution and governance: systemic risks.
In 2015, RBS participated in a regulatory stress Impact of stress scenario is translated via relevant risk test designed by the Bank of England BoE.
drivers such as RWAs, impairments: Profit and loss impacts of stress scenario are also The BoE stress test exercise tested the impact of a synchronised assessed: and global downturn triggered by a sharp slowdown in China and Review of stress output by the business as well as risk, deep recession in the eurozone, amidst amplifying disinflationary treasury and finance teams.
In particular, the scenario examined the resilience of Consolidation and capital planning: UK banks to corporate vulnerabilities such as deep recession in Segmental results are consolidated to provide a trading partners economies.
Under the scenario, the UK suffers combined view of stress impact: a severe recession with economic uncertainty damaging Stressed profit and loss and RWA assessment confidence and causing business investment contraction, a contribute towards arriving at a stressed capital plan: housing market shock and a significant rise in unemployment Additional capital impacts under stress are considered accompanied by a period of deflation.
such as pension deficit, foreign exchange reserves: and Under the Bank of Englands hypothetical adverse scenario, the Final stressed capital, leverage and liquidity ratios are results show that RBSs capital position remains above the produced for each year of the scenario.
threshold CET1 ratio of 4.5% and meets the leverage ratio of Management actions and governance: 3.0% with a low point of 6.1% CET1 ratio and 3.0% leverage ratio Internal subject matter experts determine a menu of after strategic management actions.
The PRA Board judged that possible management actions under stress conditions RBS did not meet its individual capital guidance after such as capital raising, fide-risking and sale of assets, management actions in this scenario.
Since December 2014, and cost reduction: and RBS has taken actions to improve its capital position.
During the Stress testing is reviewed by senior risk management course of 2015, RBS issued 2 billion of AT1.
In light of the steps and executives: and governance is provided by ERF, that RBS has already taken to strengthen its capital position, BRC and Board.
coupled with its plans for future AT1 issuance, the PRA Board did not require RBS to submit a revised capital plan.
Risk-type specific stress testing is also conducted.
For example, within the market risk management framework, a comprehensive programme of stress tests covers a variety of historical and hypothetical scenarios.
unaudited 149 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management continued Internal capital adequacy assessment process ICAAP Forward-looking stress capital assessment: The ICAAP assesses RBSs material risks and determines how Pillar 2B - Capital planning buffer is set to ensure RBS much capital is required to cover these risks.
maintains adequate capital resources in stress to allow it to continue to meet the minimum capital The ICAAP consists of two types of internal capital assessment: requirements.
The current capital planning buffer will Point-in-time capital assessment as at the financial year be replaced by the PRA buffer from 1 January 2016. end: Pillar 1 - CET1 4.5% of credit, market and operational The final ICAAP is approved by the Board prior to submission to RWAs at the financial year end.
Component parts of the ICAAP are set out in the Pillar 2A - additional capital requirements for risks not diagram below.
captured or not adequately captured in Pillar 1.
A Capital Risk Assessment is performed to ensure that all material risks are identified, appropriately managed and adequately capitalised where appropriate.
Internal capital adequacy assessment process Internal capital adequacy assessment process Governance Regulatory Key input of ICAAP Internal processes and approvals review Capital Assessment Pillar 1 Pillar 2A Pillar 2B Risk Appetite Risk Not Board of directors Adequately Forward-looking Credit Risk Covered in Pillar 1 Market Risk Supervisory Capital Planning & Board risk Operational Risk review and Stress Testing Risk Not Covered Risk Directory Committee evaluation in Pillar 1 & capital risk BRC process assessment SREP SME Executive Owners Executive risk Review & Sign-off Forum ERF Capital ICAAP Capital Planning Working Group management Individual and stress capital testing guidance committee ICG Technical Review Group TRG CMSTC Stress Testing Enterprise Wide Risk - ICAAP Team Internal Audit review unaudited 150 Business review Capital and risk management Economic capital Regulatory developments and RBSs current and future An economic capital framework and associated models are used capital position by RBS as a supplement to other risk and capital management Regulatory proposals and rules issued or set by the following tools, such as stress testing and regulatory capital.
Economic regulators are the most relevant for RBS: capital enables the bank to assess the adequacy of capital Basel - recommendations for all major international allocated to its material risks at different confidence institutions - usually through Basel Committee of Banking levels severities and to incorporate the assessment of additional Supervision BCBS : risks that are not fully addressed by other measures, for example, EU - issue consistent rules for all EU banks and investment concentration risk, which is not addressed by regulatory capital firms, commonly through the European Banking Authority requirements.
Models are developed and maintained for the EBA : and banks material risk categories and are used in the ICAAP, to PRA - additional local rules for UK banks and investment assess risk profiles within the risk appetite framework and as part firms.
of risk management frameworks e. g. operational risk and credit risk management.
Capital Following the implementation of the Basel III proposals through The characteristics of the models relating to these risks are the Capital Requirements Regulation CRR and the Capital consistent across risks, business lines and throughout the Requirements Directive CRD, collectively known as CRR CRD economic cycle, but are also flexible to allow outcomes to be IV, which came into effect on 1 January 2014, the regulatory employed for a number of purposes e. g. severity level confidence drive towards improved capital standards for banks continues interval, time horizon and correlations.
Models have been and is centred on three broad themes: developed internally but are subject to rigorous governance Robust definitions of capital for CET1 and leverage including external benchmarking, independent validation and purposes that are not dependent on one or more economic extensive internal review and challenge.
Models are regularly cycles: reviewed and continue to be updated for new data sources and Improved strength of banks, with strategic plans and improvements in risk modelling methodology.
business models capable of undergoing one or more significant stress events: and The ability to change severity levels supports the management of Valid and viable recovery plans in place for banks to return earnings volatility and capital risk.
Economic models are used in to normality after a period of stress or, easy application of the ICAAP, assessing risk profiles within the risk appetite the resolution frameworks.
framework and functional risk management such as Operational Risk and Credit Risk management.
Many of these aspects still require analysis and debate and therefore any implementation is likely to take many years.
Recovery planning In line with regulatory requirements, RBS regularly updates its CRR CRD IV introduced the following minimum requirements to recovery plans, which include a framework of indicators be met by 2019: identifying the points at which appropriate actions may be taken Pillar 1 requirement of: CET1 of 4.5% of RWAs: Tier 1 of in the event of unexpected weaknesses in its capital or liquidity 6%: and total capital of 8%: resulting from either idiosyncratic or systemic stress, as well as a CRD IV Combined buffers: capital conservation buffer of menu of options for addressing such weaknesses.
Recovery 2.5% of RWAs: countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5%: plans are subject to an ongoing improvement assessment in line GSIB surcharge of 1.0% based on the most recent with regulatory feedback and internal standards and determination from the FSB: and expectations.
Minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3%.
RBS continues to develop its resolution capability and planning in The PRA policy statement PS7 13 outlined changes to the line with best practice and regulatory guidance.
minimum level of CET1 capital for large UK banks as follows: The PRA required UK banks to meet the CRD IV end point Recovery Plans are required to be updated annually: it is Pillar 1 requirement from 1 January 2015: anticipated that RBSs 2016 Recovery Plan will be prepared in All Pillar 2A risks must be met with at least 56% CET1 line with revised rules taking into account the European Union capital.
This matches the proportion of CET1 capital Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive of 2014 and the required for Pillar 1.
The remaining 44% allocation of Pillar European Banking Authoritys regulatory technical standards on 2A is restricted to 19% Tier 1 and 25% Tier 2: and recovery planning.
These rules would require a bank to notify the All regulatory deductions from capital align CET1 with the PRA, without delay, if it decides to take action under the recovery end-point CRR definition, effectively making fully loaded plan or refrains from taking action.
Basel III the regulatory definition.
unaudited 151 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management continued The BoE intends to include an integrated framework for The PRA issued Policy Statement 17 15 in July 2015 setting out decision-making around the setting of capital buffers, as well the Pillar 2 capital requirements for UK banks.
The changes are as a clear and transparent process for determining whether intended to support a more risk sensitive and consistent banks need to strengthen their capital positions.
approach to setting Pillar 2A P2A capital and to provide greater A hurdle rate framework is to be enhanced, and will align to transparency of the PRA capital setting process by allowing firms the overall capital framework.
Within the hurdle rate, a bank to manage present and future regulatory capital demands.
will be expected to meet all of its minimum risk-based CET1 Implementation is from 1 January 2016 in line with the CRD IV capital requirements Pillar 1 in the scenario, as well as capital conservation and systemic buffers and the European Pillar 2A CET1 requirements.
Additionally, GSIB buffers will Banking Authoritys Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process be included in the hurdle rate.
The changes are as follows: As a major UK bank, RBS will be included in the annual cyclical The variable element of P2A is now expressed as a scenarios and may also be required to participate in the biennial percentage of RWAs plus fixed add-ons instead of the exploratory scenario stress tests to the extent that the risks being current method where P2A is a formula comprising both a probed are relevant to RBS.
variable and a fixed element: The PRA buffer replaces the current Capital Planning Buffer MREL and TLAC CPB.
Use of the buffer will not be a breach in capital The banking resolution and recovery directive introduces requirements and will not result in capital distribution requirements for banks to maintain at all times a sufficient restrictions however, failure to meet Pillar 2B P2B buffer aggregate amount of own funds and eligible liabilities that may may result in enhanced supervisory action: be bailed in using the bail-in tool, known as the minimum The P2B buffer is now calculated as a percentage of RWAs requirements for eligible liabilities MREL.
The aim is that the rather than absolute terms and is to be met with CET1: minimum amount should be proportionate and adapted for each Firms already subject to a CPB are required to meet P2B category of bank on the basis of their risk or the composition of with CET1 in full immediately: their sources of funding.
Where the PRA considers that firms have weak risk management or governance, PRA may require firms to hold The EBA noted that the technical standards would be compatible additional PRA buffer on a scalar ranging from 10-40% of a with the proposed term sheet published by the FSB on TLAC firms CET1 Pillar 1 plus P2A capital requirements: and requirements for GSIBs, but there remains a degree of Firms have the discretion to publicly disclose their aggregate uncertainty as to the extent to which MREL and TLAC P2A charge from 1 January 2016.
Component parts of P2A requirements may differ.
and the PRA buffer remain confidential.
Following the FSB finalising its TLAC proposals in November Leverage 2015, the PRA published its proposed requirements for MREL Leverage ratio requirements are also subject to the following key which will be the way in which the UK implements the TLAC aspects consistent with proposals outlined in PS27 15 - standard.
MREL will apply to GSIBs from 2019 and to other Implementing a UK leverage ratio framework : relevant UK firms from 2020.
The purpose of MREL is to ensure that, in the event of failure, a bank has sufficient loss-absorbing Minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3%.
To be met 75% by and recapitalisation capacity to allow for an orderly resolution that CET1 and a maximum 25% AT1: minimises any adverse impact on financial stability whilst A supplementary leverage buffer applying to GSIBs equal to preventing public funds being exposed to loss.
The requirements 35% of the corresponding risk-weighted systemic risk buffer will be firm-specific but the PRAs consultation paper proposes rates to be met with CET1: and that MREL will be required: A countercyclical leverage ratio buffer equal to 35% of the risk-weighted countercyclical capital buffer rate to be met At a consolidated and individual bank level, including for the from CET1.
The countercyclical buffer is currently set at 0%.
holding entity of a banking group.
At an amount at least equal to two times the current Stress testing minimum Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A capital requirements, or, if In October 2015, the BoE published its approach to stress testing higher, any applicable leverage ratio requirement, or the of the UK banking system out to 2018.
The publication outlines minimum capital requirements under Basel plus any the following key features of the BoE approach: applicable CRD IV capital buffers: once for loss absorbency, A cyclical scenario to assess the risks to the banking system once for recapitalisation based on the financial cycle.
The severity of the scenario to be counter-cyclical in nature.
The US Federal Reserve has proposed rules which will require Every second year, the BoE will complement the annual US bank holding companies and intermediate holding companies testing with an additional exploratory scenario to probe the of foreign banks to hold specified amounts of both long term debt resilience of the system to risks not easily linked to the and TLAC from January 2019.
RBS is considering the impact of financial cycle.
unaudited 152 Business review Capital and risk management Systemically Important Banks On 29 January 2016, the FPC proposed that those banks and As at November 2015, RBS was moved down to the lowest building societies with total assets above 175 billion will be set bucket for required loss absorbency in the FSBs updated list of progressively higher SRB rates as total assets increase through GSIBs.
HM Government required the FPC to produce a framework for the SRB at rates between 0% and 3% of RWAs.
Regulatory proposals relating to Domestically Systemically Under the FPCs proposals, ring-fenced bank sub-groups and Important Banks DSIBs and Other Systemically Important large building societies in scope with total assets below 175 Institutions OSII continue to be progressed and could impact billion will be subject to a 0% SRB.
Based on current information, the level of CET1 that is required to be held by RBS and specific under these proposals the FPC expects the largest ring-fenced legal entities including NatWest and the Royal Bank.
The EBA bank in 2019 to have a 2.5% SRB.
In line with the FPCs previous published in December 2014 a quantitative methodology as to announcement on the leverage ratio framework, those institutions how European regulators could quantify which firms would qualify subject to the SRB will also be set a 3% minimum leverage ratio as DSIBs.
The PRA published CP39 15 on this in October 2015, requirement, together with an additional leverage ratio buffer and published its list of the sixteen firms designated as OSII: calculated at 35% of the applicable SRB rate.
For example, an RBS is included within this list.
institution with an SRB rate of 1% would have an additional leverage ratio buffer of 0.35%.
The proposed calibration is Systemic risk buffer SRB expected to add around an aggregate 0.5 percentage points of In January 2015, HM Treasury issued an explanatory risk-weighted assets to equity requirements of the system in memorandum on the SRB for banks, building societies and aggregate.
The regulation implements Articles 133 and 134 of Directive 2013 36 EU and addresses the outstanding capital The PRA will be responsible for applying the framework and will buffer element of the ring-fencing policy recommended by the have ultimate discretion over which firms must hold the buffer Independent Commission on Banking ICB and agreed by the and its specific size.
Ring-fencing The purpose of the SRB is to prevent and mitigate long term nonThe UK Financial Services Banking Reform Act passed cyclical systemic or macro prudential risks not covered by into UK law in December 2013 implementing existing regulation where there is potential for serious negative recommendations of the ICB.
The PRA is in the process of consequences for the financial system and real economy finalising its rules with respect to ring-fencing.
The PRA is consulting on the need for firms to hold capital The SRB will apply to large banks with core ring fenced entity resources equivalent to at least 25% of annual fixed deposits of more than 25 billion and large building societies with overheads in respect of critical services to facilitate deposits of more than 25 billion.
Implementation will occur from operational continuity in resolution.
1 January 2019 and capital buffers will range from 0-3% of a firms RWAs.
Basel proposals The more relevant proposals issued by the BCBS are as follows: Capital floors BCBS 306 : Revised Pillar 3 disclosure BCBS 309 : Total loss absorption capacity BCBS 342 : Standardised approach for credit risk BCBS 347 : and Minimum capital for market risk BCBS 352.
RBS is continuing its assessments of these proposals.
unaudited 153 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management continued Measurement Capital and leverage: key ratios Capital, RWAs and risk asset ratios, on the basis of end-point CRR and transitional rules, calculated in accordance with PRA definitions, are set out below.
Components within CET1 capital have however been represented to reflect revisions to accounting tangible equity, with corresponding adjustments to other deductions above.
2 Capital Requirements Regulation CRR as implemented by the Prudential Regulation Authority in the UK, with effect from 1 January 2014.
All regulatory adjustments and deductions to CET1 have been applied in full for with the exception of unrealised gains on available-for-sale AFS securities which has been included from 2015 under the PRA transitional basis.
3 Based on end-point CRR Tier 1 capital and leverage exposure under the CRR Delegated Act.
Refer to Pillar 3 report Appendix 1 and 2 for CRR Own funds and leverage disclosure.
General: In accordance with the PRAs Policy Statement PS7 2013 issued in December 2013 on the implementation of CRD IV, all regulatory adjustments and deduction to CET1 have been applied in full end-point CRR with the exception of unrealised gains on AFS securities which will be included from 2015 PRA transitional basis.
From 1 January 2015, RBS must meet at least 56% of its Pillar 2A capital requirement with CET1 capital and the balance with Additional Tier 1 and or Tier 2 capital.
The Pillar 2A capital requirement is the additional capital that RBS must hold, in addition to meeting its Pillar 1 requirements in order to comply with the PRAs overall financial adequacy rule.
Measures in relation to end-point CRR basis, including RWAs, are based on the current interpretation, expectations, and understanding, of the CRR requirements, as well as further regulatory clarity and implementation guidance from the UK and EU authorities end-point CRR basis.
The actual end-point CRR impact may differ when the final technical standards are interpreted and adopted.
Capital base: 1 Own funds are based on shareholders equity.
2 2014 includes the nominal value of B shares 0.5 billion on the assumption that RBS will be privatised in the future and that they will count as permanent equity in some form by the end of 2017.
3 The adjustment arising from the application of the prudent valuation requirements to all assets measured at fair value, has been included in full.
The prudential valuation adjustment relating to assets under advanced internal ratings approach has been included in impairment provisions in the determination of the deduction from expected losses.
4 Where the deductions from AT1 capital exceed AT1 capital, the excess is deducted from CET1 capital.
The excess of AT1 deductions over AT1 capital in year one of transition is due to the application of the current rules to the transitional amounts.
5 Insignificant investments in equities of other financial entities net : long cash equity positions are considered to have matched maturity with synthetic short positions if the long position is held for hedging purposes and sufficient liquidity exists in the relevant market.
All the trades are managed and monitored together within the equities business.
6 Based on our current interpretations of the Commission Delegated Regulation issued in December 2013 on credit risk adjustments, RBSs standardised latent provision has been reclassified to specific provision and is not included in Tier 2 capital.
Risk-weighted assets RWAs : 1 Current securitisation positions are shown as risk-weighted at 1,250%.
2 RWA uplifts include the impact of credit valuation adjustments and asset valuation correlation on banks and central counterparties.
3 RWAs reflect implementation of the full internal model method suite, and include methodology changes that took effect immediately on CRR implementation.
4 Non-financial counterparties and sovereigns that meet the eligibility criteria under CRR are exempt from the credit valuation adjustments volatility charges.
5 The CRR final text includes a reduction in the risk-weight relating to small and medium-sized enterprises.
unaudited 154 Business review Capital and risk management Capital and leverage: Capital resources 2015 2014 PRA PRA End-point transitional End-point transitional CRR basis basis CRR basis basis m m m m Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests Shareholders' equity 53,431 53,431 55,763 55,763 Preference shares - equity 3,305 3,305 4,313 4,313 Other equity instruments 2,646 2,646 784 784 47,480 47,480 50,666 50,666 Regulatory adjustments and deductions Own credit 104 104 500 500 Defined benefit pension fund adjustment 161 161 238 238 Cash flow hedging reserve 458 458 1,029 1,029 Deferred tax assets 1,110 1,110 1,222 1,222 Prudential valuation adjustments 381 381 384 384 Goodwill and other intangible assets 6,537 6,537 7,781 7,781 Expected losses less impairments 1,035 1,035 1,491 1,491 Other regulatory adjustments 86 64 898 628 9,872 9,850 10,747 11,017 CET1 capital 37,608 37,630 39,919 39,649 Additional Tier 1 AT1 capital Eligible AT1 1,997 1,997 Qualifying instruments and related share premium subject to phase out 5,092 5,820 Qualifying instruments issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties 1,627 1,648 AT1 capital 1,997 8,716 7,468 Tier 1 capital 39,605 46,346 39,919 47,117 Qualifying Tier 2 capital Qualifying instruments and related share premium 5,745 6,265 5,542 6,136 Qualifying instruments issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties 2,257 7,354 3,175 7,490 Tier 2 capital 8,002 13,619 8,717 13,626 Total regulatory capital 47,607 59,965 48,636 60,743 Note: 1 Capital Requirements Regulation CRR as implemented by the Prudential Regulation Authority in the UK, with effect from 1 January 2014.
All regulatory adjustments and deductions to CET1 have been applied in full for the end-point CRR basis with the exception of unrealised gains on available-for-sale AFS securities which has been included from 2015 for the PRA transitional basis.
The table below analyses the movement in end-point CRR CET1, AT1 and Tier 2 capital for the year.
CET1 AT1 Tier 2 Total m m m m At 1 January 2015 39,919 8,717 48,636 Loss for the year net of movements in fair value of own credit 2,583 2,583 Share capital and reserve movements in respect of employee share schemes 206 206 Ordinary shares issued 300 300 Foreign exchange reserve 1 1,809 1,809 AFS reserves 8 8 Decrease in goodwill and intangibles deduction 1,244 1,244 Deferred tax assets 112 112 Prudential valuation adjustments 3 3 Excess of expected loss over impairment provisions 456 456 New issue of capital instruments 2,007 2,007 Dated subordinated debt issues maturities 82 82 Net dated subordinated debt grandfathered instruments 713 713 Foreign exchange movements 90 90 Other movements 248 10 10 268 At 31 December 2015 37,608 1,997 8,002 47,607 Note: 1 This reflects the recycling of the reserve to profit and loss account following the deconsolidation of Citizens.
unaudited 155 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management continued Capital and leverage: Leverage ratio and related disclosures Leverage exposure The leverage exposure is based on the CRR Delegated Act.
End-point CRR basis 2015 2014 Leverage bn bn Derivatives 262.5 354.0 Loans and advances 327.0 419.6 Reverse repos 39.9 64.7 Other assets 186.0 212.7 Total assets 815.4 1051.0 Derivatives - netting 258.6 330.9 - potential future exposures 75.6 98.8 Securities financing transactions gross up 5.1 25.0 Undrawn commitments 63.5 96.4 Regulatory deductions and other adjustments 1.5 0.8 Leverage exposure 702.5 939.5 Additional analysis of derivative notionals and undrawn commitments, two of the major components contributing to the leverage exposure are set out below.
Leverage ratio and related disclosures: Derivative notionals The table below analyses the derivative notionals by maturity for contracts other than credit derivatives, and credit derivatives by qualifying and non-qualifying.
2015 2014 Derivatives other than Derivatives other than credit derivatives 1 Credit derivatives 2 credit derivatives 1 Credit derivatives 2 NonNon- 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Qualifying qualifying Total 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Qualifying qualifying Total bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Interest rate 8,701 7,328 3,754 19,783 11,069 10,423 5,839 27,331 Exchange rate 2,838 573 291 3,702 3,649 720 306 4,675 Equity 8 8 1 17 42 33 2 77 Commodities 1 1 1 1 Credit 56 11 67 99 26 125 Total 11,548 7,909 4,046 56 11 23,570 14,761 11,176 6,147 99 26 32,209 Notes: 1 Derivative potential future exposures PFE are calculated based on the notional value of the contracts and is dependent on the type of contract.
For contracts other than credit derivatives the PFE is based on the type and maturity of the contract after the effect of netting arrangements.
2 The PFE on credit derivatives is based on add-on factors determined by the asset quality of the referenced instrument.
Qualifying credit derivatives attract a PFE add-on of 5% and have reference securities issued by public sector entities, multilateral development banks or other investment grade issuers.
Non-qualifying credit derivatives attract a PFE add-on of 10%.
Leverage ratio and related disclosures: Weighted undrawn commitments The below table provides a breakdown of weighted undrawn commitments.
2015 2014 bn bn Unconditionally cancellable credit cards 2.4 2.2 Other Unconditionally cancellable items 7.2 4.6 Unconditionally cancellable items 1 9.6 6.8 Undrawn commitments 1 year which may not be cancelled 0.6 2.3 Other off-balance sheet items with 20% CCF 1.4 2.1 Items with a 20% CCF 2.0 4.4 Revolving credit risk facilities 25.3 38.1 Term loans 4.3 2.8 Mortgages 5.9 4.9 Other undrawn commitments 1 year which may not be cancelled & off-balance sheet items with 50% CCF 5.3 10.1 Items with a 50% CCF 40.8 55.9 Items with a 100% CCF 11.1 17.8 Citizens 11.5 Total 63.5 96.4 Note: 1 Based on a 10% credit conversion factor CCF.
unaudited 156 Business review Capital and risk management Loss absorbing capital RBSs capital components and estimated loss absorbing capital LAC at 31 December 2015 based on current regulatory interpretations are set out below.
Under current TLAC guidance, RBS will be required to hold a minimum LAC of 16% of RWAs by the beginning of 2019 and 18% of RWAs by the beginning of 2020.
For additional details regarding regulatory developments in relation to MREL TLAC requirements, refer to Capital management on page 152.
The roll-off profile and average spread relating to senior debt is set out on page 158.
The following table illustrates the components of estimated LAC in the holding company and operating companies.
Par Balance Regulatory LAC value 1 sheet value value 2 value 3 2015 bn bn bn bn CET1 capital 4 37.6 37.6 37.6 37.6 Tier 1 capital: end point CRR compliant AT1 of which: RBSG plc holdco 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 of which: RBSG operating subsidiaries opcos 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 Tier 1 capital: non-end point CRR compliant of which: holdco 6.0 6.0 5.9 4.6 of which: opcos 2.5 2.5 2.5 0.3 8.5 8.5 8.4 4.9 Tier 2 capital: end point CRR compliant of which: holdco 5.8 5.9 5.7 4.4 of which: opcos 5.1 5.5 3.8 5.5 10.9 11.4 9.5 9.9 Tier 2 capital: non-end point CRR compliant of which: holdco 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.1 of which: opcos 3.3 3.6 3.0 2.9 3.6 3.9 3.2 3.0 Senior unsecured debt securities issued by: RBSG holdco 4.9 5.0 2.9 RBSG opcos 17.7 18.1 22.6 23.1 2.9 Total 85.2 86.5 60.7 60.3 RWAs 242.6 Leverage exposure 702.5 LAC as a ratio of RWAs 24.9% LAC as a ratio of leverage exposure 8.6% Notes: 1 Par value reflects the nominal value of securities issued.
2 Regulatory capital instruments issued from operating companies are included in the transitional LAC calculation, to the extent they meet the TLAC MREL criteria.
3 LAC value reflects RBSs interpretation of the 9 November 2015 FSB Term Sheet on TLAC and the Bank of Englands consultation on their approach to setting MREL, published on 11 December 2015.
MREL policy and requirements remain subject to further consultation, as such RBS estimated position remains subject to potential change.
Liabilities excluded from LAC include instruments with less than one year remaining to maturity, structured debt, operating company senior debt, and other instruments that do not meet the TLAC MREL criteria.
4 Corresponding shareholders equity was 53.4 billion.
Refer to capital resources table on page 155 for further details.
5 Regulatory amounts reported for Additional Tier 1, Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments are before grandfathering restrictions imposed by CRR.
unaudited 157 Business review Capital and risk management Capital management continued Senior debt roll-off profile Based on current guidance, RBS anticipates issuing senior bonds from its holding company to ensure LAC classification under MREL TLAC proposals.
The following table illustrates the roll-off profile and weighted average spreads of RBSs major wholesale funding programmes.
This is calculated as the difference between the issuing coupon and the equivalent hedging rate.
2 The balance sheet value relates to debt securities in issue of 31.2 billion excluding 0.6 billion exchangeable bond relating to Williams & Glyn.
Risk-weighted assets The table below analyses the movement in credit risk RWAs on the end-point CRR basis during the year, by key drivers.
Credit risk Non-counterparty Counterparty Total bn bn bn At 1 January 2015 264.7 30.4 295.1 Foreign exchange movement 0.3 0.2 0.1 Business movements 90.3 7.1 97.4 Risk parameter changes 1 7.0 0.2 6.8 Methodology changes 2 0.3 0.2 0.5 Model updates 3 0.4 0.1 0.5 At 31 December 2015 166.4 23.4 189.8 Modelled 3 128.4 20.4 148.8 Non-modelled 38.0 3.0 41.0 166.4 23.4 189.8 For the notes to this table refer to the following page.
unaudited 158 Business review Capital and risk management The table below analyses the movement in market and operational risk RWAs on the end-point CRR basis during the year.
Market risk CIB Other Total Operational risk Total bn bn bn bn bn At 1 January 2015 15.4 8.6 24.0 36.8 60.8 Business and market movements 1.6 1.2 2.8 5.2 8.0 At 31 December 2015 13.8 7.4 21.2 31.6 52.8 Modelled 1 11.8 4.7 16.5 16.5 Non-modelled 2.0 2.7 4.7 31.6 36.3 13.8 7.4 21.2 31.6 52.8 Note: 1 Modelled refers to advanced internal ratings basis for non-counterparty credit risk, internal model method for counterparty credit risk, and value-at-risk and related models for market risk.
These principally relate to Commercial Banking 58 billion.
Key points RWAs have decreased by 113 billion in the year to 243 The foreign exchange movement primarily impacts Ulster billion principally due to the disposal of Citizens and balance Bank RoI, as sterling strengthened against the euro.
sheet and risk reduction strategy in Capital Resolution.
Business movements include a decrease of 5 billion relating to the annual recalculation of operational risk.
They comprise: - UK PBB and Ulster Bank RoI: primarily reflects recalibration of PD and LGD models reflecting improvements in the UK and Irish economies.
- Capital Resolution: decrease in defaulted assets 2.5 billion.
2 Methodology changes included: - Commercial Banking: revisions to CCF applied to uncommitted credit card limits and change in methodology for applying SME discount.
3 Credit risk models were updated during the year including: - UK PBB: non standard LGD model for mortgages and business banking EAD model.
- CIB: large corporate PD model.
Refer to RBSs Pillar 3 2015 Report Table CR 1 for RWA density by sector cluster and regulatory approach.
Key points Commercial Banking RWAs increased 9.1 billion, of which RCR: implemented its disposal and run down strategy a 8.4 billion related to the transfer of UK and Western year ahead of plan and reduced RWAs across all European loan portfolios from CIB which have a high business lines - Corporate 4.8 billion, Markets 4.3 proportion of undrawn commitments.
Real Estate Finance 3.5 billion and Ulster Bank Capital Resolution successfully implemented its risk 0.9 billion.
RCR disposals comprised significant reduction strategy by reducing RWAs by 46.1 billion proportion of impaired assets and contributed to a 17.8 overall, 32.6 billion in CIB and 13.5 billion in RCR: billion reduction in RWA equivalent, with Ulster Bank CIB portfolio: accelerated disposal and run-off of capitalportfolio having a residual RWAe of 0.5 billion intensive regional portfolios totalling 15.0 billion: in the Central items included 68.4 billion RWAs relating to US 6.8 billion, including 4.2 billion relating to the sale Citizens at 1 January 2015.
Operational risk RWAs primarily of North American loan portfolios: EMEA 4.7 billion: relates to Citizens: exclusion is pending PRA approval.
Significant progress was also Refer to RBSs Pillar 3 2015 Report Table CR 1 for RWA seen in the Markets portfolios through sales, novations, density by sector cluster and regulatory approach.
risk transfers, unwinds and close outs, leading to a 11.4 billion reduction.
The GTS business RWAs also fell by 6.2 billion following strategic reductions in trade finance lending across all regions.
unaudited 159 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity and funding risk The liquidity coverage ratio LCR was 136% at 31 Definition December 2015, with the improvement from 112% at year Liquidity risk is the risk that RBS is unable to meet its financial end 2014 primarily reflecting the strategic run-down of obligations, including financing wholesale maturities or customer Capital Resolution assets at a faster rate than their deposit withdrawals, as and when they fall due.
The ratio is strengthened by the placing of surplus Capital Resolution liabilities in short-term All the quantitative disclosures in this section are audited except liquid assets.
for those in Liquidity metrics and Behavioural maturity, and The net stable funding ratio NSFR, based on RBSs collateral on and off-balance sheet.
Certain disclosures exclude interpretation of the Basel framework, had increased to Citizens for 2014 to allow like-for-like comparison with 2015.
The increase in the metric is also partly due to the Sources of funding and liquidity The risk arises through the maturity transformation role that reduced need for stable funding as a result of Capital banks perform.
It is dependent on RBS specific factors such as Resolution rundown.
maturity profile, composition of sources and uses of funding, the Liquidity risk appetite is measured by reference to the quality and size of the liquidity portfolio as well as broader market liquidity portfolio as a proportion of net stressed outflows factors, such as wholesale market conditions alongside depositor and the ratio was 227% at 31 December 2015 186% at 31 and investor behaviour.
December 2014 under the worst case stress scenario.
The improvement in 2015 was primarily due to a reduction in net RBSs primary funding source is its customer deposit base, stressed outflows from the disposal of Citizens, and the primarily built through its retail and commercial franchises in the increase in liquidity portfolio.
These deposits form a stable base which fully Based on its assessment of the PRA proposals, RBS may funds RBSs customer lending activities.
issue between 3 - 5 billion per annum during 2016 - 2019 to meet MREL requirements.
Complementary to its deposit funding, RBS maintains access to The customer loan:deposit ratio reduced to 89% compared various wholesale markets for funding, on both a public and with 95% at the end of 2014.
This reflects the strategic run private basis, across a range of currencies, geographies and down of Capital Resolution loans and higher retail and maturities.
These include long-term secured and unsecured debt, commercial deposits, this was partly offset by loan growth short-term money markets and repurchase agreements.
set policies for the prudent use of wholesale funding, as part of its wider liquidity policies.
Policy, framework and governance Internal liquidity policies are designed to ensure that RBS: RBS accesses the wholesale funding markets directly or through its main operating subsidiaries via established funding Has a clearly stated liquidity risk tolerance: appetite for programmes.
The use of different entities to access the market liquidity risk is set by the Board as a percentage of the from time to time allows RBS to further diversify its funding mix Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA stressed and in certain limited circumstances demonstrate to regulators outflows, and RBS monitors its liquidity position against this that specific operating subsidiaries enjoy market access in their risk tolerance on a daily basis.
In setting risk limits the Board own right.
considers the nature of RBSs activities, overall risk appetite, market best practice and regulatory compliance.
RBS may access various funding facilities offered by central Has in place strategies, polices and practices to ensure that banks from time to time.
The use of such facilities can be both RBS maintains sufficient liquidity: the risk management part of a wider strategic objective to support initiatives to help framework determines the sources of liquidity risk and the stimulate economic growth or as part of the broader liquidity steps that can be taken when these risks exceed certain management and funding strategy.
Overall usage and repayment actively monitored limits.
These actions include when and of available central bank facilities will fit within the overall liquidity how to use the liquid asset portfolio, and what other risk appetite and concentration limits.
adjustments to the balance sheet should be undertaken to Overview and key developments manage these risks within the banks risk appetite.
The liquidity position strengthened with the liquidity portfolio Incorporates liquidity costs, benefits and risks in product of 156 billion at 31 December 2015 covering short-term pricing and performance management: RBS uses internal wholesale funding STWF, excluding derivative collateral, funds transfer pricing to ensure that these costs are by more than nine times.
STWF, including derivative reflected in the measurement of business performance, and collateral, decreased by 16 billion to 38 billion mainly due to correctly incentivise businesses to source the most to the maturity of term debt issued during the financial crisis.
The liquidity portfolio increased by 5 billion in the year, primarily reflecting the strategic run-down of Capital The Asset and Liability Management Committee ALCo sets and Resolution loans faster than the associated liabilities and reviews the liquidity risk management framework and limits within proceeds from the Citizens share sales: this was offset to the risk appetite set by the Board.
ALCo, and by delegation the some extent by UK PBB loan growth.
The portfolio includes ALCo Technical Committee, oversees the implementation of 61 billion of secondary liquidity consisting of assets eligible liquidity management across RBS.
for discounting at central banks.
The costs associated with maintaining the secondary liquidity portfolio are minimal being largely administrative and operational costs.
160 Business review Capital and risk management Regulatory oversight and liquidity framework Stress testing RBS operates across multiple jurisdictions and is subject to a Under the liquidity risk management framework RBS maintains number of regulatory regimes.
the ILAA, a component of which is an assessment of net stressed liquidity outflows.
These liquidity stress tests apply scenarioThe principal regulator, the Prudential Regulation Authority based behavioural and contractual assumptions to cash inflows PRA, has a comprehensive set of liquidity regulations which and outflows under the worst of three severe stress scenarios, as were revised in 2015 to replace the existing BIPRU 12 regime prescribed by the PRA.
These are a market-wide stress, an with the CRD IV liquidity regime in the UK.
To comply with the idiosyncratic stress and a combination of both.
PRA regulatory framework, RBS undertakes the following: A stress event can occur when either firm-specific or market-wide factors lead to depositors and investors withdrawing or not An annual exercise to complete the Individual Liquidity renewing funding on maturity.
This could be caused by many Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP : and factors including fears over the viability of the firm.
Additionally, An annual Liquidity Supervisory Review and Evaluation liquidity stress can be brought on by customers choosing to draw Process L-SREP with the PRA, that involves a down on loan agreements and facilities.
comprehensive review of the RBS ILAAP, liquidity policies and risk management framework.
This results in the settings Simulated liquidity stress testing is performed at least monthly for of the Individual Liquidity Guidance, which influences the each business as well as the major operating subsidiaries in size and overall composition of the liquidity portfolio.
order to evaluate the strength of RBSs liquidity position.
The stressed outflows are measured over certain time periods which On 1 October 2015 the LCR became the PRAs primary extend from two weeks to three months.
RBS is expected to be regulatory standard for liquidity, replacing the previous BIPRU 12 able to withstand stressed outflows through its own resources regime.
LCR is being introduced on a phased basis and UK primarily through the use of the liquidity portfolio without having banks are initially required to maintain a minimum of 80% of LCR, to resort to extraordinary central bank or governmental support.
Stress tests are designed to examine the impact of a variety of firm-specific and market-wide scenarios on the future adequacy The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS published of the liquidity reserves.
Stress test scenarios are designed to its final recommendations for implementation of the NSFR in take into account RBSs experience during the financial crisis, October 2014, proposing an implementation date of 1 January 2018, by which time banks are expected to meet an NSFR ratio recent market conditions and events.
These scenarios can be run at any time in response to the emergence of firm-specific or of 100% from this point onwards.
The EC has stated that it shall, market-wide risks that could have a material impact on RBSs if appropriate, submit a legislative proposal to the European liquidity position.
In the past these have included credit rating Parliament by the end of 2016 for implementing the NSFR in the changes and political and economic conditions changing in EU.
In the meantime, RBS uses the definitions from the BCBS particular countries.
guidelines, and its own internal interpretations, to calculate the NSFR.
RBSs liquidity risk appetite is measured by reference to the liquidity portfolio as a percentage of net stressed ILAA outflows.
Measurement, monitoring and contingency planning In implementing the liquidity risk management framework, a suite of tools are used to monitor, limit and stress test the risks within Liquidity portfolio Liquidity risks are mitigated by a centrally managed liquidity the balance sheet.
The limits control the amount and composition portfolio.
The size of the portfolio is determined under the liquidity of funding sources, asset and liability mismatches and funding risk management framework with reference to RBSs liquidity risk concentrations, in addition to the level of liquidity risk.
Liquidity risks are reviewed at a significant legal entity level daily, and at a business level monthly, with performance reported to The majority of the portfolio is centrally managed by Treasury, ALCos at least monthly.
Any breach of internal metric limits will ring-fenced from the CIB trading book, and is the ultimate set in motion a series of actions and escalations that could lead responsibility of the RBS Treasurer.
This portfolio is held in the to activation of the Contingency Funding Plan CFP.
PRA regulated UK Domestic Liquidity Subgroup UK DoLSub comprising RBSs five licensed deposit taking UK banks: The RBS maintains a CFP, which forms the basis of analysis and Royal Bank of Scotland plc, National Westminster Bank Plc, management actions to be undertaken in a liquidity stress.
The Ulster Bank Limited, Coutts & Co and Adam & Company.
CFP is linked to stress test results and forms the foundation for liquidity risk limits.
The CFP sets out the circumstances under Certain of RBS's significant operating subsidiaries - RBS N. V. which the plan would be invoked: this includes material and Ulster Bank Ireland Limited - hold locally managed portfolios worsening of liquidity condition indicators which are reported to that comply with local regulations that may differ from PRA rules.
It also prescribes a communications These portfolios are the responsibility of the local Treasurer who plan, roles and responsibilities, as well as potential management reports to the RBS Treasurer.
actions to take in response to various levels of liquidity stress.
On invocation of the CFP, the Contingency Liquidity Team would be convened to identify the likely impact of the stress event and determine the appropriate management response.
unaudited 161 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity and funding risk continued Primary liquid assets such as cash and balances at central The UK DoLSub liquidity portfolio accounted for 95% of the total banks, treasury bills and other high quality government and liquidity portfolio, this portion is available to meet liquidity needs US agency bonds.
The remaining liquidity reserves are Secondary liquid assets that are eligible as collateral for held within non-UK bank subsidiaries, the majority of this portion local central bank liquidity facilities, but do not meet the core 5% is restricted by regulatory requirements and assumed to local regulatory definition.
These assets include own-issued only be available for use locally.
securitisations or whole loans that are retained on balance sheet and pre-positioned with a central bank so that they Separately from the liquidity portfolio, RBS holds high quality may be converted into additional sources of liquidity at very assets to meet payment systems collateral requirements: these short notice.
are managed by Treasury but are not freely available to other areas of RBS.
The composition of the liquidity portfolio is subject to internal policies and limits over quality of counterparty, maturity mix and RBS categorises its liquidity portfolio, including its locally currency mix.
The liquidity value of the portfolio is determined managed liquidity portfolios, into primary and secondary liquid with reference to current market prices and the haircuts assets.
necessary to generate cash from the asset.
Liquidity risk Key metrics The table below sets out the key liquidity and related metrics monitored by RBS.
All measures include Citizens for 2014.
2015 2014 Liquidity portfolio 156bn 151bn Stressed outflow coverage 1 227% 186% Liquidity coverage ratio 2 136% 112% Net stable funding ratio 3 121% 112% Loan:deposit ratio 89% 95% Notes: 1 RBS's liquidity risk appetite is measured by reference to the liquidity portfolio as a percentage of stressed contractual and behavioural outflows under the worst of three severe stress scenarios of a market-wide stress, an idiosyncratic stress and a combination of both in RBS ILAA.
This assessment is performed in accordance with PRA guidance.
2 On 1 October 2015 the LCR became the PRAs primary regulatory liquidity standard.
It is a Pillar 1 metric to which the PRA apply Pillar 2 add-ons.
UK banks are required to meet a minimum standard of 80% initially rising to 100% by 1 January 2018.
The published LCR excludes Pillar 2 add-ons.
RBS calculates the LCR using its own interpretations of the EU LCR Delegated Act, which may change over time and may not be fully comparable with those of other financial institutions.
3 BCBS issued its final recommendations for the implementation of the net stable funding ratio in October 2014, proposing an implementation date of 1 January 2018.
Pending further guidelines from the EU and the PRA, RBS uses the definitions and proposals from the BCBS paper and internal interpretations, to calculate the NSFR.
Consequently RBSs ratio may change over time and may not be comparable with those of other financial institutions.
Liquidity portfolio The table below shows the liquidity portfolio by product, liquidity value and by carrying value.
Liquidity value is lower than carrying value as it is stated after discounts applied by the Bank of England and other central banks to instruments, within the secondary liquidity portfolio, eligible for discounting.
GBP USD EUR Total Total liquidity portfolio m m m m 2015 110,289 20,861 24,574 155,724 2014 excluding Citizens 93,861 27,617 16,238 137,716 2014 Citizens 12,939 12,939 2014 total 93,861 40,556 16,238 150,655 Notes: 1 The PRA regulated UK Domestic Liquidity Subgroup UK DoLSub comprising RBSs five licensed deposit taking UK banks: The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, National Westminster Bank Plc, Ulster Bank Limited, Coutts & Co and Adam & Company.
In addition, certain of RBSs significant operating subsidiaries - RBS N. V. and Ulster Bank Ireland Limited - hold locally managed portfolios that comply with local regulations that may differ from PRA rules.
2 Comprises assets eligible for discounting at the Bank of England and other central banks.
Funding risk The composition of RBSs balance sheet is a function of the RBSs asset and liability types broadly match.
Customer deposits broad array of product offerings and diverse markets served by provide more funding than customer loans utilise: repurchase its core businesses.
The structural composition of the balance agreements are largely covered by reverse repurchase sheet is augmented as needed through active management of agreements: interbank lending and funding largely nets off and both asset and liability portfolios.
The objective of these activities this gap has narrowed over the past 5 years: and derivative is to optimise the liquidity profile, while ensuring adequate assets are largely netted against derivative liabilities.
coverage of all cash requirements under extreme stress conditions.
RBS remains committed to supporting the objectives of the Funding for Lending scheme.
Key funding metrics The table below summarises the key funding metrics.
Short-term wholesale funding 1 Total wholesale funding Net inter-bank funding 2 Excluding Including Excluding Including Net derivative derivative derivative derivative inter-bank collateral collateral collateral collateral Deposits Loans 3 funding bn bn bn bn bn bn bn 2015 17.2 37.6 58.7 79.1 7.7 7.3 0.4 2014 27.8 53.3 90.5 116.0 15.4 13.3 2.1 2014 excluding Citizens 22.6 48.1 83.5 109.0 10.3 11.6 1.3 Notes: 1 Short-term wholesale funding is funding with a residual maturity of less than one year.
163 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity and funding risk continued Funding sources The table below shows the principal funding sources excluding repurchase agreements repos.
The table below analyses repos by counterparty type.
2015 2014 m m Financial institutions - central and other banks 10,266 24,859 - other financial institutions 20,130 28,703 Other corporate 6,982 8,648 Total excluding Citizens 37,378 62,210 Citizens 2,372 Total 37,378 64,582 Reverse repos at 31 December 2015 were 39.9 billion 2014 - 64.7 billion.
Fair value of securities received as collateral for reverse repos was 39.8 billion 2014 - 64.7 billion, of which 29.0 billion 2014 - 60.2 billion had been rehypothecated for RBSs own transactions, in line with normal market practice.
164 Business review Capital and risk management The table below shows RBS's principal funding sources excluding repurchase agreements repos by currency.
In practice, the behavioural profiles of many liabilities exhibit greater stability and longer maturity than the contractual maturity.
This is particularly true of many types of retail and corporate deposits which, despite being repayable on demand or at short notice, have demonstrated very stable characteristics even in periods of acute stress.
In its analysis to assess and manage asset and liability maturity gaps RBS determines the expected customer behaviour through qualitative and quantitative techniques, incorporating observed customer behaviours over long periods of time.
This analysis is subject to governance through ALCos down to a segment level.
Behavioural analysis Contractual maturity analysis and net behavioural funding surplus gap are set out below.
The net surplus position The net funding surplus has increased by 18 billion during increase has largely been seen within the 1 to 5 year 2015, largely reflecting Capital Resolution 18 billion and bucket, in addition to the funding gap having closed in the CIB 5 billion rundown of loans faster than associated greater than 5 year bucket during 2015.
Reasons for these liabilities when compared with the prior year end.
This was movements include longer-dated behaviours in RBSI during partly offset slightly by lending growth in UK PBB during the 2015 and quicker than previously anticipated rundown of year.
Capital Resolution and CIB, offset slightly by an increased funding gap within CB in the longest dated bucket.
unaudited 166 Business review Capital and risk management Contractual maturity The following table shows the residual maturity of financial instruments, based on contractual date of maturity.
Held-for-trading HFT assets and liabilities have been excluded from the maturity analysis in view of their short-term nature and are shown in total in the table below.
Hedging derivatives are included within the relevant maturity bands.
The typical already encumbered and used to support funding currently characteristics that support encumbrance are an ability to pledge in place via own asset securitisations, covered bonds and those assets to another counterparty or entity through operation securities repurchase agreements.
of law without necessarily requiring prior notification, positioned with the central bank as part of RBSs homogeneity, predictable and measurable cash flows, and a contingency funding.
consistent and uniform underwriting and collection process.
In this category, RBS has in Retail assets including residential mortgages, credit card place an enablement programme which seeks to identify receivables and personal loans display many of these features.
assets which are capable of being encumbered and to identify the actions to facilitate such encumbrance whilst not impacting customer relationships or servicing.
RBSs balance sheet encumbrance ratios are set out below.
2014 2015 2014 excluding Citizens Encumbrance ratios % % % Total 11% 13% 12% Excluding balances relating to derivative transactions 11% 14% 13% Excluding balances relating to derivative and securities financing transactions 8% 11% 10% Balance sheet encumbrance Encumbered as a result of transactions Assets encumbered at the with counter parties other than central banks central bank and unencumbered assets Covered Repos Total Positioned Readily Capable bonds and and encumbered at the available for of being Cannot be central bank encumbrance encumbered encumbered securitisations 1 Derivatives similar 2 assets 3 4 5 6 7 Total Total 2015 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 2.5 2.5 70.5 6.8 0.1 77.4 79.9 Loans and advances - banks 1.5 11.0 0.4 12.9 1.5 2.8 1.3 0.5 6.1 19.0 - residential mortgages - UK 15.2 15.2 81.3 18.6 8.4 108.3 123.5 - Irish 7.4 7.4 1.2 4.0 0.1 5.3 12.7 - credit cards 4.4 0.2 4.6 4.6 - personal loans 6.0 5.1 11.1 11.1 - other 0.8 17.2 0.4 18.4 8.3 8.9 98.4 22.1 137.7 156.1 Reverse repos 39.9 39.9 39.9 Debt securities 2.9 31.9 34.8 20.9 26.3 0.5 47.7 82.5 Equity shares 0.8 0.2 0.4 1.4 1.4 Settlement balances 4.1 4.1 4.1 Derivatives 262.5 262.5 262.5 Intangible assets 6.5 6.5 6.5 PPE 0.3 0.3 3.1 1.1 4.2 4.5 Deferred tax 2.6 2.6 2.6 Other assets 4.5 4.5 4.5 Total 24.9 31.1 35.5 91.5 183.7 78.6 117.3 344.3 723.9 815.4 Securities retained 2.9 Total liquidity portfolio 186.6 Liabilities secured Intra-Group - secondary liquidity 4.0 4.0 Intra-Group - other 6.2 6.2 Third-party 8 8.0 31.1 39.6 78.7 Total 18.2 31.1 39.6 88.9 For the notes to this table refer to the following page.
169 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity and funding risk continued Balance sheet encumbrance Encumbered as a result of transactions Assets encumbered at the with counter parties other than central banks central bank and unencumbered assets Covered Total Positioned Readily Capable bonds and Repos and encumbered at the available for of being Cannot be central bank encumbrance encumbered encumbered securitisations 1 Derivatives similar 2 assets 3 4 5 6 7 Total Total 2014 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 2.4 2.4 66.7 5.8 72.5 74.9 Loans and advances - banks 4.9 11.5 0.5 16.9 0.4 1.7 4.0 6.1 23.0 - residential mortgages - UK 25.4 25.4 69.9 10.2 7.7 0.1 87.9 113.3 - Irish 8.6 8.6 0.9 4.3 0.1 5.3 13.9 - credit cards 2.7 2.7 2.3 0.2 2.5 5.2 - personal loans 6.4 2.9 9.3 9.3 - other 6.0 21.9 0.5 28.4 7.9 9.7 110.3 37.2 165.1 193.5 Reverse repos 64.7 64.7 64.7 Debt securities 5.6 26.7 32.3 13.8 39.7 0.8 54.3 86.6 Equity shares 0.3 2.6 2.9 2.2 0.2 0.3 2.7 5.6 Settlement balances 4.7 4.7 4.7 Derivatives 353.6 353.6 353.6 Intangible assets 7.8 7.8 7.8 PPE 0.4 0.4 3.7 2.1 5.8 6.2 Deferred tax 1.9 1.9 1.9 Other assets 5.8 5.8 5.8 Total excluding Citizens 47.6 39.3 33.1 120.0 159.6 82.3 129.8 478.3 850.0 970.0 Citizens 0.3 16.4 16.7 13.8 8.5 1.7 40.3 64.3 81.0 Total 47.6 39.6 49.5 136.7 173.4 90.8 131.5 518.6 914.3 1,051.0 Securities retained 13.6 Total liquidity portfolio 187.0 Liabilities secured Intra-Group - secondary liquidity 13.1 13.1 Intra-Group - other 11.6 11.6 Third-party 8 12.7 39.6 64.7 117.0 Total excluding Citizens 37.4 39.6 64.7 141.7 Citizens 10.4 10.4 Total 37.4 39.6 75.1 152.1 Restated - refer to page 267 for further details.
Notes: 1 Covered bonds and securitisations include securitisations, conduits and covered bonds.
2 Repos and other secured deposits, cash, coin and nostro balance held with the Bank of England as collateral against deposits and notes in circulation are included here rather than within those positioned at the central bank as they are part of normal banking operations.
3 Total assets encumbered as a result of transactions with counterparties other than central banks are those that have been pledged to provide security for the liability shown above and are therefore not available to secure funding or to meet other collateral needs.
4 Assets positioned at the central bank relates to RBSs liquidity portfolio and comprises cash balances at central banks, high quality debt securities and loans that have been prepositioned with central banks.
In addition, the liquidity portfolio includes securitisations of own assets which has reduced over the years and has been replaced by loans.
5 Readily available for encumbrance: including assets that have been enabled for use with central banks but not positioned: and unencumbered debt securities.
6 Other assets that are capable of being encumbered are those assets on the balance sheet that are available for funding and collateral purposes but are not readily realisable in their current form.
These assets include loans that could be prepositioned with central banks but have not been subject to internal and external documentation review and diligence work.
7 Cannot be encumbered includes: a Derivatives, reverse repurchase agreements and trading related settlement balances.
b Non-financial assets such as intangibles, prepayments and deferred tax.
c Loans that cannot be pre-positioned with central banks based on criteria set by the central banks, including those relating to date of origination and level of documentation.
d Non-recourse invoice financing balances and certain shipping loans whose terms and structure prohibit their use as collateral.
8 In accordance with market practice, RBS employs securities recognised on the balance sheet, and securities received under reverse repo transactions as collateral for repos.
Secured derivative liabilities reflect net positions that are collateralised by balance sheet assets.
170 Business review Capital and risk management Risk assessment, controls and assurance Business risk Business risk is directly managed and controlled through RBSs Definition strategic planning, budgeting and new product development Business risk is the risk that RBS makes inappropriate business processes, in which the following elements are incorporated: or strategic choices or that RBS is not able to execute its chosen strategy in line with its budget.
The risk is that RBS does not Evaluation of the macroeconomic environment: deliver its budgeted performance which could lead to a Industry analysis: deterioration in stakeholder trust and confidence or to a breach of Competitor analysis, across geography, product, customer: regulatory thresholds.
Customer behaviour analysis i. e. understanding customer segments, trends and behaviours : RBS could make inappropriate business or strategic choices if it Understanding of technological developments: fails to adequately assess the current and prospective operating Assessment of regulatory developments and changes: and environment.
RBS may not be able to execute its chosen strategy Evaluation of the political environment.
in line with its budget if there are material changes to its internal or external operating environment.
The following aspects of the strategic planning process also control business risk: All the disclosures in this section are unaudited.
The Top Risks process which aims to identify early, monitor Sources of risk Business risk arises as a result of the banks exposure to the closely and avoid or otherwise manage effectively strategic macro-environment, to the competitive environment, and to risks that have the highest likelihood of impacting strategic technological changes.
In addition, internal factors such as plans: and volatility in sales volumes, and input costs, and other operational At the end of the strategic planning process sensitivity risks such as RBSs ability to assess the business operating analysis is undertaken on the consolidated budget to assess environment, or to execute its chosen strategy, contribute to the robustness of the plan and compliance with strategic risk business risk.
objectives, including under a variety of stressed conditions Furthermore, business risk is controlled as a result of having a Key developments in 2015 requirement for RBS and each business to incorporate the RBS reduced its business risk profile by implementing its following elements when formulating strategic plans: strategic plan to shift the business mix towards the UK and the retail and commercial banking segments, with riskier activities in Organisational capabilities: CIB and Capital Resolution curtailed via disposals and run-down.
Organisational resources: In addition, RBS continued with its simplification agenda and Organisational commitment: and cost reduction programme.
Stakeholder requirements, including customers, regulators, RBSs Top Risks process became more firmly embedded.
addition, RBSs stress testing processes continued to develop, improving the management of business risk.
Additional stress Business risk is also controlled via the monthly performance testing was undertaken in response and scenario modelling review processes which include financial reviews carried out by capability was enhanced further.
the Finance Function via the franchise Finance Directors and Governance Financial Planning & Analysis.
These reviews are carried out to The Board has ultimate responsibility for business risk and for understand emerging trends, issues and, where there are approving strategic plans, initiatives and changes to strategic adverse variations from plans, enable management to take direction.
Refer to the Risk governance section on page 135. appropriate actions.
A wide variety of financial, risk, customer and market metrics are monitored to assess business RBSs strategic planning process is managed by Strategy and performance and hence the effectiveness of chosen strategies.
The Risk and Finance functions are key Deviations from plan are analysed to determine drivers which contributors to strategic planning.
As part of the process, each could be strategic, environmental or management-related.
The customer business develops a strategic plan within a framework monthly performance review process also includes the provision set by RBSs senior management.
The strategic plans are of monthly reports to the Executive Committees and the Board.
consolidated at RBS-wide level, and reviewed and assessed against risk appetite by the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial In addition, business performance reviews are carried out on a Officer and the Director of Strategy and Corporate Finance quarterly basis to discuss detailed business issues and agree before presentation to, and approval by, the Board.
These are led by franchise Chief Executive Officers and Finance Directors, with RBSs Chief Executive, Chief Responsibility for the day-to-day management of business risk Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer and other stakeholders in lies primarily with the franchises with oversight by the Finance attendance.
The franchises are responsible for delivery of their business plans and the management of such factors as pricing, Finally, business risk is controlled through the adoption of policy sales volumes, marketing expenditure and other factors that can standards that inform the approach to strategy development and introduce volatility into earnings.
Examples include the policy standards on Corporate Governance, Business Commitment Approval unaudited Process, Acquisitions & Disposals, Capital Management and Political Legislative & Regulatory Environment.
171 Business review Capital and risk management Risk measurement Business risk continued A wide variety of financial, risk, customer and market metrics are Risk appetite used to monitor business performance and thus, inter alia, the Refer to the Risk appetite section on page 140. effectiveness of chosen strategies.
Any deviations from the expected values are analysed to determine drivers which could Risk identification and monitoring be strategic, environmental or management.
Example metrics Business risk is identified and managed at the product and include: customer attrition, deposit balances, revenues, transaction level.
Estimated revenue, costs and capital, including impairments or loan losses, profitability and risk-weighted returns.
the potential range of outcomes, are key considerations in the design of any new product or investment decision.
All policies The stress test outcomes form a core part of the assessment of that ultimately seek to manage and control financial impact at the earnings and capital adequacy risk appetite and are approved by product and transaction level are therefore relevant to business the Board.
The measurement of change in profit and loss of the risk management, including policies on conduct, funding and franchises under stress thereby acts as a measure of business investment spending.
Franchises also conduct their own bottom-up stress testing exercises to assess the financial performance of their businesses Business risk is reported, assessed and challenged at every under stress.
governance level within the organisation.
Each franchise monitors its financial performance relative to plans and reports Reputational risk this on a regular basis to the Finance Directors of each franchise.
Definition The monthly and quarterly performance review processes Reputational risk is the risk to RBSs public image owing to a described above, as well as the Top Risks process are also all failure to meet stakeholders expectations in relation to central to the identification and monitoring of business risk.
performance, conduct and business profile.
Stakeholders include customers, investors, employees, suppliers, government, Business risk is reviewed and assessed through the planning regulators, special interest and consumer groups, media and the cycles.
Financial plans are developed on a bottom-up basis and general public.
refined under expected and potential scenarios reflecting expectations of the external environment and strategic priorities.
All the disclosures in this section are unaudited.
These scenarios are tested against a range of sensitivities and stresses to identify the key risk drivers behind any potential Sources of risk volatility, together with management actions to address and Reputational risk can arise from the conduct of either RBS as a manage them.
whole or that of the individuals it employs: from the activities of customers and the countries in which they operate: from the Risk mitigation products RBS offers and the transactions it supports: and from its RBS operates a monthly rolling forecasting process to identify operations and infrastructure.
projected changes in, or risks to, key financial metrics, and ensures appropriate actions are taken.
Key developments in 2015 The importance of reputational risk was reinforced with the Key strategies are reviewed and approved by the Board.
These implementation of a Reputational Risk Policy across customerreviews are intended to maximise the capture of market and facing businesses and functions to improve the identification, customer insight while providing independent scrutiny and assessment and management of customers and issues that challenge.
Strategic plans contain analysis of current and present a reputational risk.
expected operating conditions, current and targeted competitive and market positioning, key strategic initiatives, financial and This resulted in the strengthening of governance frameworks in customer targets and milestones, and upside and downside risks.
businesses including enhancing reputational risk forums that consider customers, transactions, products or issues that present A major part of the Top Risks process is to ensure that all material reputational risks.
The membership of the most senior appropriate action is taken to mitigate the most material risks to RBS-wide Reputational Risk Forum RRF was also reinforced strategic objectives.
through the addition of the Chief Marketing Officer as a member.
A full sensitivity analysis of the consolidated strategic plan is Reporting on cases and issues that have been discussed at undertaken, at the end of the strategic and financial planning RRFs was strengthened, including the review of selected cases process, to assess the robustness of the plan, and compliance and issues by senior business committees and the Board Risk with strategic risk objectives, under a variety of stressed Committee.
This ensures lessons are learned on reputational risk conditions.
In certain cases, following consideration of an management both within businesses and across franchises.
opportunity, RBS may decide not to pursue the opportunity as a Management information has also been improved, with a central result of a perceived strategic risk.
register of cases and issues under development.
RBS also undertakes strategic reviews to decide on how to react to specific developments.
unaudited 172 Business review Capital and risk management The most material threats to RBSs reputation continued to Risk mitigation originate from historical and more recent conduct issues.
As a Reputational risk is mitigated through governance frameworks result, RBS has been the subject of investigations and reviews by and training of staff to ensure early identification, assessment a number of its regulators, some of which have resulted in fines and escalation of cases with potential reputational risk, if and public censure.
Refer to the Litigation, investigations and appropriate.
This includes creating appropriate fora, for example reviews section of Note 30 on the consolidated accounts on page reputational risk committees or individual reputational risk 334. approvers.
Also important is the setting of clear reputational risk appetite Governance criteria, ensuring higher risk cases are escalated for informed Reputational risk is of significant importance and is controlled by debate and senior-level approval.
Effective communication a governance framework, with Board-level oversight reinforced channels and incident response planning also ensure that cases by a Reputational Risk Policy.
resulting in reputational impact are appropriately managed, for example by declining or exiting business or by ensuring incident Reputational risk appetite is agreed at RBS-wide level by the management plans are implemented to manage the impact of Executive Risk Forum ERF and cascaded to business negative media coverage.
Conduct and regulatory risk The Sustainable Banking Committee is responsible for Definition overseeing how RBS manages its reputation and delivers its Conduct and regulatory risk is the risk that the behaviour of RBS commitments on trust, advocacy, and customer service.
and its staff towards customers, or in the markets in which it operates, leads to unfair or inappropriate customer outcomes and The Boards oversight of reputational issues is supported by the results in reputational damage, financial loss or both.
The senior RBS-wide RRF which opines on cases that represent a damage or loss may be the result of a failure to comply with or material reputational risk to the whole organisation.
The RRF, adequately plan for changes to relevant official sector policy, which has delegated authority from the ERF, also acts as a laws, regulations, or major industry standards, or of failing to central forum to approve sector or theme-specific reputational meet customers or regulators expectations.
risk appetite positions including Environmental, Social & Ethical All the disclosures in this section are unaudited.
risk positions following review at business franchise risk committees.
Sources of risk Conduct and regulatory risk exists across all stages of RBSs Risk appetite relationships with its customers, from the development of its Refer to the Risk appetite section on page 140. business strategies, through governance arrangements, to postsales processes.
Activities through which conduct risk may arise Risk monitoring and measurement are diverse and include product design, marketing and sales, Emerging reputational issues are identified by business complaint handling, staff training, and handling of confidential and franchises and functions with the Sustainability Services and non-public price sensitive information.
Conduct risk also exists if Enterprise Wide Risk teams focusing on new and emerging RBS does not take effective action to prevent fraud, bribery and sustainability and strategic risks respectively.
Regulatory risk arises from the regulatory, Management Monthly Report, provided to the Executive Risk business or operating environment and from RBSs response to Forum and the Board Risk Committee BRC, may also discuss it.
reputational risks facing RBS, and the annual Sustainability Report covers progress on sustainability principles.
As set out in the Litigation, Investigations and Reviews section, RBS and certain members of it are party to legal proceedings and Management information on customers, transactions, products or are subject to investigation and other regulatory action in the UK, issues that have been escalated to relevant reputational risk the US and other jurisdictions.
approving authorities and forums is captured by each business franchise with select cases being reviewed by senior risk committees within the businesses.
A summary of material reputational risk issues discussed at the senior RBS-wide Reputational Risk Forum is also provided in the Risk Management Monthly Report.
ESE ratings of customers and transactions are captured and analysed centrally by the Reputational and ESE Risk Team and reported externally in the annual Sustainability Report.
unaudited 173 Business review Capital and risk management Conduct and regulatory risk continued The Framework enables the implementation of a consistent Key developments approach to assessing conduct and regulatory risk: the removing RBS continued to remediate historical conduct issues, while also of silos and duplicative testing in businesses: and the design of a focusing its customer-facing businesses and support functions simplified risk assessment process across conduct and around the needs of its customers.
The remediation of PPI continued and RBS increased its Other activities undertaken to address regulatory risk included: provisioning by 500 million, following the issuance of the consultation paper by the FCA in November 2015: this sets out Migration to simpler, principle-based policies with proposed rules and guidance for how firms should handle PPI accountable executives identified and roles, accountabilities complaints fairly.
The Consultation Paper also contains proposals and responsibilities defined: for the introduction of a deadline date for complaints in 2018.
Roll-out of RBS-wide policies, processes and strategic systems to identify and manage conflicts of interest better: During 2015 a new Conduct Risk Appetite Framework was Implementation programmes to prepare for ring-fencing and established and is being embedded across RBS.
the UKs new individual accountability regime, as well as other future regulatory requirements: Enhancement of the RBS-wide surveillance programme: and Significant investment in anti-money laundering controls, Bank wide Conduct Risk Appetite supported by the governance and training.
7 Risk Appetite Statements Group Policy Standard Governance Zero Tolerance Conduct & Regulatory Affairs C&RA is responsible for defining The minimum standards which appropriate standards of conduct, and for driving adherence to the business can augment with Statements of Risk specific Conduct Risks inherent Appetite them, for designing the framework for managing conduct and with their business model regulatory risk, and for overseeing remediation activity.
It also Businesses undertake provides appropriate controls, challenge and oversight to ensure self assessments with Conduct Risk Assessment C&RA providing good customer outcomes.
In so doing, C&RA acts as a second challenge and support line of defence control function.
Objective qualitative and quantitative MI Key elements of the governance structure are set out below: Conduct Risk MI linked to the 7 Risk Appetite pillars The C&RA Executive Committee considers emerging issues material to C&RAs strategy, and implements Board and Executive Committee risk management policy decisions: The Financial Crime Accountable Executive Committee The Conduct Risk Appetite Framework is divided into seven accountable to the Executive Risk Forum ensures that the pillars, ensuring that conduct risk exposures are understood and customer businesses and the Services function fulfil managed in accordance with agreed risk appetite and that there strategic objectives by identifying and managing their is regular, consistent assessment and reporting of both risk financial crime risks effectively: and exposures and the operating effectiveness of controls, across the The Mandatory Change Advisory Committee MCAC, businesses.
reports to the Bank-Wide Investment Committee, and comprises representatives of the customer businesses and Product profitability and functions.
The MCAC acts as the reception committee for Our business model is pricing structures and fair consistent with our Our products and services are are transparent reviewing externally mandated changes that may affect RBS strategy and serves our designed to meet customer customers well whilst needs, the level of complexity Product and recommending appropriate responses, including the balancing the commercial is appropriate for the target Profitability needs of the bank market and they also work in timely mobilisation of change implementation activities.
In & Pricing the way they are expected to Business Model doing so, it agrees business or function owners of individual & Strategy Product risks: and commissions and reviews impact assessments We have no appetite for actions that result in from customer businesses and functions.
Our customers are sold Our governance, inappropriate outcomes for products and services policies and our customers or breach legal appropriate for their procedures ensure or regulatory requirements Controls and assurance needs.
Any information that good customer Customer leading to censure or Governance or advice provided is and conduct Under the RBS Policy Framework, C&RA owns 23 conduct risk financial penalty Lifecycle suitable, relevant and outcomes are communicated in a achieved.
Each policy is designed to provide both high-level clear, fair way.
Delivery by all relevant laws of post sales support direction and RBS-wide requirements.
The policies are designed and regulations and Competency, Financial meets customer conflicts of interest Culture Crime expectations to ensure RBS meets its regulatory obligations, and to provide are managed & Reward the necessary clarity for staff on their conduct obligations.
Our people are trained, managed and rewarded to We have robust systems serve customers well and and controls in place to deliver good outcomes.
Our C&RAs Regulatory Affairs department separately oversees the prevent financial crime people act with integrity and regulatory changes, interactions with regulators and regulatory understand the impact of their decisions and behaviours on approvals for individuals.
customer outcomes unaudited 174 pillars Business review Capital and risk management Assurance and monitoring activities are essential to help Risk mitigation measure the extent to which RBS manages its delivery of specific C&RA communicates information on regulatory developments, customer outcomes.
and follow-ups with regulators, to customer-facing businesses and functions, helping them identify and execute any required Risk assessments are used to identify material conduct risks and mitigating changes to strategy or business models.
key controls across all business areas.
The risk assessment process is designed to confirm that risks are effectively managed Early identification and effective management of changes in and prioritised and that controls are tested.
legislation and regulation, are critical to the successful mitigation Scenario analysis is used to assess the impacts of extreme but of conduct and regulatory risk.
All regulatory and compliance plausible conduct risks including financial crime.
The scenarios changes are managed to ensure timely compliance readiness.
assess the exposures that could significantly affect RBSs Those changes assessed as having a High or Medium-High financial performance or reputation and are an important impact are managed especially closely, with the aim of mitigating component in the operational risk framework and capital model.
the impact through, for instance, changes to strategy or business activities, or external engagement.
Risk appetite Operational risk Work to refine and embed the risk appetite framework and Definition associated control processes continued in 2015.
The risk appetite Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or statements set the minimum standards which the RBS franchises failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events.
augment with specific conduct risks inherent in their business It arises from day-to-day operations and is relevant to every model.
The franchises undertake an annual self-assessment of aspect of the business.
the inherent and residual conduct risks against the risk appetite statements.
Operational risks may have a direct customer or reputational impact for example, a major IT systems failure or fraudulent Risk monitoring and measurement activity or both.
Operational risk failures may also have a link C&RA works closely with the customer-facing businesses to with conduct risk failures.
assess business models, strategy and products and influence All the disclosures in this section are unaudited.
Sources of risk Operational risk may arise from a failure to manage operations, RBSs senior boards and committees receive updates on conduct systems, transactions and assets appropriately.
It may arise from risk exposures and action plans through monthly C&RA-initiated forms of human error, an inability to deliver change on time or reporting.
The reporting is intended to be focused, forwardadequately, or the nonavailability of technology services or the looking and action-oriented.
Fraud and theft are sources of operational risk, as is the impact of natural and man-made disasters.
It may C&RA provides appropriate reporting of all material regulatory also arise from a failure to take appropriate measures to protect reviews and other regulatory developments worldwide to the assets or take account of changes in law or regulations.
appropriate RBS-wide committees, including the Board, the Group Audit Committee and BRC.
Key developments in 2015 The functional operating model for operational risk was An annual Money Laundering Reporting Officers Report is embedded during 2015 and aims to ensure operational risk is submitted to the Board and the FCA.
Covering the operation and managed in a consistent manner across RBS.
This effectiveness of the systems and controls in place to comply with supplemented work by the customer businesses to increase Anti-Money Laundering AML law and regulation, it also understanding of the operational risk profile and the actions describes RBSs AML framework.
In addition, it covers the required to mitigate risks outside of appetite.
systems and controls in place to prevent the financing of terrorism and to ensure compliance with sanctions as well as An Operational Risk Management Framework ORMF embargoes and export controls imposed by the UN, governments programme was established, aiming to deliver enhancements and other supranational bodies.
with an emphasis on simplifying and improving connectivity between individual ORMF components by the end of 2016.
The Group Audit Committee is provided with an annual Following the major IT incident that occurred in 2012, significant Whistleblowing Update Report.
It details cases by internal improvements have been delivered to the technology reporting categories based on the Public Interest Disclosure Act environment.
These included major investments in upgrading 1998 : identifies underlying causal and subject trends: and core banking infrastructure and improving a broad range of highlights the outcome of investigations and actions taken.
Further improvement initiatives will continue as part of the Transformation Programme to simplify RBSs C&RA is working with each business to enhance the technology environment.
management information linked to their risk appetite statements.
This is required to ensure appropriate customer outcomes are delivered, and that the management information is compliant with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision principles for effective risk data aggregation and risk reporting.
unaudited 175 Business review Capital and risk management Operational risk continued The CEC outcomes, including forward-looking assessments for The successful execution of major projects, including the the next two half-yearly cycles and high-level plans required to transformation plan, the restructuring of CIB and the divestment improve the control environment, are reported to the Board, the of Williams & Glyn is essential to meeting RBSs strategic Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
Operational Risk continued to oversee the also shared with external auditors.
implementation of these, ensuring the associated risks were The CEC helps to ensure compliance with the RBS Policy assessed and understood with mitigating activity in place Framework, Sarbanes-Oxley 404 requirements concerning wherever possible.
internal control over financial reporting as referenced in the Compliance report section, and the requirements of the UK Cyber risk Corporate Governance Code.
Cyber attacks are increasing in frequency and severity across the industry and their threat to the security of RBSs information from Risk appetite continues to be closely monitored.
During 2015 RBS participated The operational risk appetite framework is place to manage the in industry-wide cyber attack simulations in order to help test and risk to an acceptable level in line with stated risk appetite.
To mitigate the risks, a large-scale appetite provides RBS with a clear understanding of its programme to improve user access controls is in progress, along acceptable levels of risk in relation to its strategic objectives and with a number of other actions, including a reduction in the wider obligations.
number of external websites, enhancement of protection against malware, and the implementation of a staff education programme This has led to the development of a number of risk appetite on information protection.
statements covering RBSs most material operational risks.
These risks were identified due to their significance and they are Risk governance regularly reported to the OREC, ERF and BRC.
Work has A strong operational risk management function is vital to support commenced to cascade these statements to each business.
Better management of operational risk directly statements are monitored and reported at business risk supports the strategic risk objective of improving stakeholder committees.
confidence and is vital for stability and reputational integrity.
Above these sits an RBS-level operational risk appetite statement The operational risk function, an independent second line of which encompasses the full range of operational risks and drives defence, plays a leadership role and seeks to achieve a robust the strategic risk measurement of stakeholder confidence.
This is operational risk management framework and culture across RBS.
reviewed annually by the ERF.
The statement is supported by The Global Head of Operational Risk reports to the Chief Risk three simple measures: i the relationship between operational Officer.
risk losses and RBSs gross income: ii metrics covering control environment performance: and iii the requirements for the The operational risk function is responsible for the design, material RBS wide operational risks to be managed within risk development, delivery and continuous improvement of the appetite.
The Operational Risk Policy is incorporated in the RBS Policy Framework and provides direction for the consistent Risk identification and assessment identification, assessment, management, monitoring and Risk and control assessments are used to identify and assess reporting of operational risk.
Through a network of oversight material operational and conduct risks and key controls across all teams, the function undertakes second line of defence oversight business areas.
To support identification of risk concentrations, and challenge to ensure the integrity of the ORMF, and manages all risks and controls are mapped to the risk directory.
Risk the overall operational risk profile against risk appetite.
assessments are refreshed at least annually to ensure they remain relevant and capture any emerging risks.
The Operational Risk Executive Committee OREC, which is a The process is designed to confirm that risks are effectively sub-committee of the Executive Risk Forum ERF, acts on all managed and prioritised in line with the stated risk appetite.
This includes reviewing the operational Controls are tested at the appropriate frequency to verify that risk exposure against risk appetite: identifying and assessing they remain fit for purpose and operate effectively.
material operational risks, encompassing both current and During 2015 an enhanced end-to-end risk assessment emerging material risks: reviewing and monitoring the operational methodology was designed, which is now being implemented risk profile: and reviewing and approving material policy changes.
This approach enhances the understanding of the risk profile of RBSs key products and services, and it will be Controls and assurance used to identify and quantify the most material risks.
Subject The Control Environment Certification CEC process is a half matter experts and key stakeholders are engaged from across yearly self-assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of RBS to support management decision-making in line with RBSs RBSs internal control environment.
This covers material risks financial and non-financial appetite statement.
and the key controls that underpin them, including financial, operational and compliance controls, as well as the supporting risk management frameworks.
unaudited 176 Business review Capital and risk management The New Product Risk Assessment process aims to ensure that Capital the risks represented by new products and material variations to Using the standardised approach, RBSs Pillar 1 capital existing products are identified and assessed before launch.
requirement for 2015 was 2.5 billion 2014 - 2.9 billion.
There is now a requirement to demonstrate that all products Event and loss data management provide fair outcomes to customers.
Ongoing enhancements to The event and loss data management process ensures the improve the risk rating of new and significant changes to products capture and recording of operational risk loss events that meet as well as increasing the focus on customers were introduced defined criteria.
The loss data is used for regulatory and industry during 2015. reporting and is included in the capital modelling, for the Risk mitigation calculation of the regulatory capital for operational risk.
Risks are mitigated through the application of key preventative The most serious events are escalated in a simple, standardised and detective controls as an integral step in risk assessment process to all senior management, by way of the Group Notifiable methodology, to enable a determination of the residual risk.
Control owners are accountable for the design, execution, All losses and recoveries associated with an operational risk performance and maintenance of key controls.
event are reported against their financial accounting date.
A These key controls are regularly assessed for adequacy and single event can result in multiple losses or recoveries that may tested for effectiveness.
The control testing results are monitored take time to crystallise.
Losses and recoveries with a financial and, where a material change in performance is identified, it accounting date in 2015 may relate to events that occurred, or results in a re-evaluation of the associated risk.
During 2015, were identified in, prior years.
work continued on enhancing management information reporting, Percentage and value of events driving consistency and more focused actions to mitigate risk.
At 31 December 2015, four categories accounted for around 99% RBS purchases insurance to provide the business with financial of all operational risk events.
These were: i clients, products protection against specific losses and to comply with statutory or and business practices: ii execution, delivery and process contractual requirements.
management: iii fraud: and iv employment practices and workplace safety.
This was broadly unchanged from 2014.
At 31 Risk monitoring December 2015, events associated with clients, products and Monitoring and reporting are part of RBSs operational risk business practices accounted for 98% of the losses compared to management processes, which aim to ensure that risks and 93% in 2014. issues are identified, considered by senior executives, and The losses in this category resulted from new conduct-related managed effectively.
provisions, and further increased provisions relating to Payment Protection Insurance and Interest Rate Hedging Products The most material operational risks and their position relevant to settlements.
A small number of operational risk events risk appetite are regularly reviewed at the OREC, along with any contributed a high percentage of the total losses.
In 2015, around emerging risks and the actions taken to mitigate them.
These are 1% of the events contributed 98% of the losses.
This was in line also reported to the BRC and the ERF.
Exposures specific to with 2014. each business are communicated through monthly risk and control reports that are discussed at business risk committees.
Risk measurement RBS uses the standardised approach to calculate its operational risk capital requirement.
This is based upon multiplying three years average historical gross income by co-efficients set by the regulator based on type of income.
As part of the wider Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP an operational risk economic capital model is used as a key capital benchmark.
The model utilises loss data and scenario analysis inputs from the operational risk framework to provide a risk sensitive view of RBSs operational risk capital requirement.
Scenario analysis is used to assess the potential impact of extreme but plausible operational risks.
It provides a forwardlooking basis for evaluating and managing operational risk exposures.
unaudited 177 Business review Capital and risk management Operational risk continued Percentage of events 1% 1% 19% 9% 70% 2015 Clients, products and business practices Execution, delivery and process management Fraud Employment practices and workplace safety Other Value of events 22m 49m 3m 41m 14m 59m 31m 2,014m 3,547m 2015 2014 Clients, products and business practices Execution, delivery and process management Technology and infrastructure failures External fraud Other unaudited 178 Business review Capital and risk management Throughout 2015, various pension risk stress-testing initiatives Pension risk Definition were undertaken, focused both on internally defined scenarios Pension obligation risk is the risk to RBS caused by its and on scenarios to meet integrated Bank of England stresscontractual or other liabilities to or with respect to a pension testing requirements.
For more information on stress testing, scheme whether established for its employees or those of a refer to page 148. related company or otherwise.
It also means the risk that the bank will make payments or other contributions to or with respect Governance The Main scheme operates under a trust deed.
The corporate to a pension scheme because of a moral obligation or because trustee, RBS Pension Trustee Limited, is a wholly owned the bank considers that it needs to do so for some other reason.
subsidiary of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
The trustee board All the disclosures in this section are unaudited.
currently comprises six directors selected by RBS and four directors nominated by members.
The trustee is supported by Sources of risk RBS Investment Executive Ltd RIEL, a team which specialises RBS has exposure to pension risk through its defined benefit in pension investment strategy.
Four of the largest schemes, which represent around 90% of RBSs pension liabilities, are the Royal The Pension Risk Committee PRC chaired by the Group Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund Main scheme, the Ulster Treasurer, acts as a sub-committee of the RBS Asset and Bank Pension Scheme Republic of Ireland, the Ulster Bank Liability Committee ALCo and formulates RBSs view of pension Pension Scheme and the Royal Bank of Scotland International risk.
The PRC considers mechanisms that could potentially be Pension Trust.
The Main scheme is the principal source of used for managing risk within the funds as well as financial pension risk.
strategy and employee welfare implications, and also reviews actuarial assumptions from a sponsor perspective as appropriate.
Pension scheme liabilities vary with changes in long-term interest The PRC is a key component of RBSs approach to pension risk rates and inflation as well as with pensionable salaries, the where risk management, asset strategy and financing issues are longevity of scheme members and legislation.
Meanwhile, reviewed and monitored on behalf of RBS.
The PRC also serves pension scheme assets vary with changes in interest rates, as a formal link between RBS, RIEL and the trustee.
inflation expectations, credit spreads, exchange rates and equity and property prices.
RBS is exposed to the risk that the schemes For further information on Risk governance, refer to page 135. assets together with future returns and any additional future contributions are insufficient to meet liabilities as they fall due.
In Risk appetite such circumstances, it could be obliged or might choose to Investment policy for the schemes is defined by the trustee with make additional contributions to the schemes or be required to input from RIEL and other specialist advisers employed by the hold additional capital to mitigate this risk.
While the trustee is responsible for the management of the scheme assets, it consults with RBS on material changes to Key developments in 2015 the Main schemes risk appetite and investment policy.
A payment of 650 million was made to the Main scheme in 2015 RBS maintains an independent view of the risk inherent in in line with the current Schedule of Contributions, in addition to pension funds, with an associated risk appetite, and has defined the regular annual contribution of around 270 million for ongoing limits against which risk is measured.
In addition to the scrutiny accrual of benefits and the expenses of running the scheme.
provided by the PRC, RBS also achieves this through regular Following developments in pension accounting and reporting during 2015, RBS revised its policy for determining whether or pension risk monitoring and reporting to the Board, the Executive not it has an unconditional right to a refund of any surpluses in its Committee and the BRC on the material pension schemes that employee pension funds and also revised prior periods refer to RBS has an obligation to support.
page 267 - Accounting policies and page 286 Note 4, Pensions, Risk mitigation for more details.
The incremental impact of this, combined with The trustee has taken measures to mitigate inflation and interest the one-off accelerated payment expected of 4.2 billion to be rate risks both by investing in suitable financial assets and by made in 2016, is anticipated to improve RBSs risk profile, capital entering into inflation and interest rate swaps.
The Main scheme planning, and resilience through the period to 2019.
Subject to also uses derivatives to manage the allocation of the portfolio to PRA approval, the adverse core capital impact resulting from the different asset classes and to manage risk within asset classes.
accounting policy change and the accelerated payment is The assets of the Main scheme, which represented 88% of expected to be partially offset by a reduction in core capital RBSs pension plan assets at 31 December 2015, are invested in requirements.
Any such core capital offsets are likely to occur at a diversified portfolio of quoted and private equity, government the earliest from 1 January 2017, but they will depend on the and corporate fixed interest and index-linked bonds, property and PRAs assessment of RBSs CET1 capital position at that time.
The Bank of England issued PS17 15 - Assessing capital adequacy under Pillar 2.
This set out the final rules, statement of policy and supervisory statements for Pillar 2 capital policy, which informed the calculation of RBSs pension risk capital at 31 December 2015. unaudited 179 Business review Capital and risk management Pension stress tests take the form of both stochastic and Pension risk continued deterministic stresses over time horizons ranging from Risk monitoring and measurement Pension risk reporting is submitted quarterly to the Board in the instantaneous to five years in duration.
They are designed to RBS Risk Monthly Management Report.
The report includes a examine the behaviour of the pension schemes assets and measurement of the overall deficit or surplus position based on liabilities under a range of financial and demographic shocks.
The the latest data, estimated capital requirements and an results of the stress tests and their consequential impact on assessment of the associated assets and liabilities.
RBSs balance sheet, income statement and capital position are incorporated into the overall bank-wide stress test results.
RBS also undertakes a number of stress tests and scenario analyses on its material defined benefit pension schemes each The table below shows the sensitivity of the Main schemes year as part of its risk measurement framework.
These stress assets and liabilities measured according to IAS 19 Employee tests are also used to satisfy the requests of regulatory bodies Benefits to changes in interest rates and equity values at the such as the Bank of England.
The stress testing framework year end, taking account of the current asset allocation and includes the production of the pension risk ICAAP as well as hedging arrangements.
Asset sensitivity to changes in nominal additional stress tests for a number of internal management yields increased over the year as swap yields fell at longer purposes.
durations and the Main scheme increased its interest rate hedging ratio.
Change Change Change in net in value in value of pension of assets liabilities obligations 2015 m m m Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 874 363 511 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 1,029 1,104 75 Fall in credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields 70 1,526 1,456 Fall in equity values of 10% 667 667 2014 Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 447 413 34 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 932 1,159 227 Fall in credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields 65 1,581 1,516 Fall in equity values of 10% 771 771 The chart below shows the pension liability cash flow profile, allowing for expected indexation of future payments.
The majority of expected cash flows 77% are anticipated within the next 40 years.
The profile will vary depending on the assumptions made regarding inflation expectations and mortality.
2015 2014 0-10 11-20 21-30 31-40 41-50 Over 50 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% Proportion of liability cash flows unaudited 180 Years Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis UK personal lending - The Personal portfolio grew in mortgage Definition lending while underwriting standards remained unchanged.
This Credit risk is the risk of financial loss due to the failure of a reflected improving economic conditions as well as the continued customer or counterparty to meet its obligation to settle low interest rate environment.
Natural Resources - The Oil & Gas sector was affected by the The following disclosures in this section are audited: large drop in oil price with prices remaining volatile.
Exposures to Risk assessment and monitoring the Oil & Gas sector materially reduced during 2015.
Asset Wholesale credit risk management quality remains strong with the majority of the portfolio remaining Risk mitigation: investment grade.
However, changing market conditions resulted Problem debt management - Forbearance: in a limited number of customers experiencing financial stress Key credit portfolios - commercial real estate LTV during the year.
The Mining & Metals sector was affected by the distribution global market imbalance, prompted by a slowdown in demand - Personal credit risk management especially from China - and oversupply of the key metal Problem debt management - Forbearance commodities following a legacy of heavy investment in new Overview of personal portfolios - Forbearance: and LTV production capacity.
There was a particular focus on mining, distribution which is most vulnerable in these circumstances.
Market Country risk - Summary of country exposures conditions remained challenging, especially for customers with high financial or operational leverage.
Exposure to the Mining & Sources of credit risk Metals sector reduced materially during 2015.
The sector was The principal sources of credit risk for RBS are as follows: subject to heightened credit monitoring and ongoing risk appetite review.
For further information, refer to the Key credit portfolios Lending - RBS offers a number of lending products that involve section on page 197. an obligation to provide credit facilities to customers.
To mitigate the risk of loss, security may be obtained in the form of physical Automotive - As a result of market events, heightened credit collateral such as commercial real estate assets and residential monitoring and an ongoing risk appetite review were introduced property or financial collateral such as cash and bonds.
for this sector with proactive management of direct and indirect Exposures arising from leasing activities are also included.
However, no deterioration of asset quality was observed.
For further information, refer to the Key credit portfolios Derivatives and securities financing - RBS enters into derivatives section on page 201. contracts and securities financing transactions.
These result in counterparty credit risk, which is the risk of financial loss arising Emerging markets - Exposure decreased as RBS continued to from the failure of a counterparty to meet obligations that vary in withdraw from non-strategic countries.
The reduction in exposure value by reference to a market factor.
To mitigate the risk of loss, to China during 2015 reflected corporate loan sales and collateral and netting are used along with the additional legal reductions in bank cash collateral due to a decrease in volumes rights provided under the terms of over-the-counter contracts.
For further information, refer to the Country risk section on page 212.
Debt securities - RBS holds some debt securities for liquidity management purposes and is exposed to credit risk as a result.
Credit risk management function Governance Off-balance sheet products - RBS provides trade finance and The activities of the RBS credit risk management function, which guarantees for customers, as well as committed but undrawn is led by the Group Chief Credit Officer GCCO, include: lending facilities, and is exposed to credit risk as a result.
approving credit for customers: Other activities - RBS is exposed to settlement risk through its ensuring that credit risk is within the risk appetite set activities in foreign exchange, trade finance and payments.
by the Board: managing concentration risk and credit risk control Overview and key developments frameworks: Credit quality and impairment - The portfolio reduced due to the developing and ensuring compliance with credit risk policies: strategic disposal of Citizens and Capital Resolution assets.
and Improvement in asset quality was evidenced by a reduction in the conducting RBS-wide assessments of provision adequacy.
number of customers showing financial stress, the number of customers in default and a release of provisions.
This was achieved against a backdrop of supportive economic conditions in RBSs key markets.
unaudited 181 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued The key elements of the credit risk management function are set out below.
Leadership GCCO The GCCO has overall responsibility for the credit risk function.
The GCCO chairs the Credit Risk Committee and, with the CRO, cochairs the RBS provisions committee.
Governance Credit Risk committee Authority over risk appetite within the appetite set by the board, strategy, frameworks and policy as well as oversight of RBS credit profile.
Provisions Committee 1,2 Authority over provisions adequacy and approval of recommendations from business provisions committees in accordance with approval thresholds.
Risk appetite Concentration frameworks Frameworks are maintained to ensure that the - Wholesale risk of an outsized loss due to a concentration Single name to a particular borrower, sector, product type or Sector country remains within appetite.
The credit Country frameworks are aligned to the RBS risk Product and asset class appetite framework.
- Personal credit appetite framework RBS uses a product and asset class framework Reputational and environmental, social and to control credit risk for its Personal ethical frameworks businesses.
The framework sets limits that measure and control the quality of both existing Credit policy and new business for each relevant franchise or segment.
Controls and risk assurance Control assurance Credit policy standards are in place for both Quality assurance Wholesale and Personal portfolios and are Model risk management expressed as a set of mandatory controls.
Assurance activities, as defined by credit policy, are undertaken by an independent assurance function.
Credit stewardship Credit assessment standards Credit risk stewardship takes place throughout Credit risk mitigation and collateral the customer lifecycle, from initial credit Credit documentation approval and on a continuous basis thereafter.
Regular portfolio customer review Problem debt identification and management The methodology applied for assessing and monitoring credit risk varies between customer types and segments.
Customers Segmentation Customers are managed differently, reflecting different customer types and risks.
Wholesale customers are grouped by industry clusters and managed on an individual basis includes Corporates, Banks and Financial Institutions.
Personal customers are grouped into portfolios of similar risk and managed on a portfolio basis 3.
Notes: 1 Co-chair with RBS Chief Risk Officer 2 Authority is delegated by Executive Risk Forum 3 For further information on the RBS provisioning and impairment practices refer to page 218. unaudited 182 Business review Capital and risk management Risk appetite Counterparty exposures - measured using the mark-toRisk appetite across all risk types is set using specific market value of derivatives after the effect of enforceable quantitative targets under stress, including earnings volatility and netting agreements and regulator-approved models but capital adequacy.
The credit risk appetite frameworks have been before the effect of collateral.
Calculations are gross of designed to reflect factors that influence the ability to meet those credit value adjustments.
Tools such as stress testing and economic capital are Contingent obligations - measured using the value of the used to measure credit risk volatility and develop links between committed amount and including primarily letters of credit the credit risk appetite frameworks and risk appetite targets.
frameworks are supported by a suite of policies and transaction CRA exclude issuer risk primarily debt securities and securities acceptance standards that set out the risk parameters within financing transactions.
CRA take account of regulatory netting which franchises must operate.
For further information of the although, in practice, obligations are settled under legal netting specific frameworks for wholesale and personal refer to page 189 arrangements that provide a right of legal set-off but do not meet and 203 respectively.
the offset criteria under IFRS.
Risk measurements and models Risk models Credit risk assets RBS uses the output of credit risk models in the credit approval RBS uses a range of measures for credit risk exposures.
The process - as well as for ongoing credit risk assessment, internal measure used, unless otherwise stated, is credit risk monitoring and reporting - to inform credit risk appetite decisions.
assets CRA consisting of: These models may be divided into different categories: Lending exposure - measured using drawn balances gross of impairments.
Comprises cash balances at central banks as well as loans and advances to banks and customers.
Model Calculation method Wholesale Personal Each customer account is scored and models Each customer is assigned a probability are used to assign a PD rating.
Inputs vary of default PD rating and corresponding across portfolios and include both internal grade.
PD is calculated using a account and customer level data, as well as Individual PD model combination of quantitative inputs, such counterparty data from credit bureaus.
This score is used to as recent financial performance, and support automated credit decision-making qualitative inputs such as management through the use of a  performance and sector outlook.
Loss given default LGD models estimate the amount that cannot be recovered in the event of a customer default.
When estimating LGD, RBSs models assess both borrower and Individual LGD model counterparty facility characteristics, as well as any credit risk mitigants.
The cost of collections and a time-discount factor for the delay in cash recovery are also incorporated.
Exposure at default EAD models provide estimates of credit facility utilisation at the time of a customer default, recognising that customers may make further drawings on unused credit Individual EAD model facilities prior to default or that exposures may increase due to market movements.
counterparty Regulatory requirements stipulate that EAD must always be equal to, or higher, than current utilisation, though exposures can be reduced by a legally enforceable netting agreement.
The credit economic capital model is a framework that allows for the calculation of portfolio credit loss distributions and associated metrics over a given risk horizon for a variety of business purposes.
The model takes into account migration risk the risk that credit assets EC model Portfolio level will deteriorate in credit quality across multiple years, factor correlation the assumption that groups of obligors share a common factor and contagion risk for example, the risk that the weakening of the sovereigns credit worthiness has a significant impact on the creditworthiness of a business operating in that country.
unaudited 183 Business review Capital and risk management The business and credit teams are supported by specialist inCredit risk: management basis continued house documentation teams.
RBS uses industry-standard loan Changes to credit models RBS reviews and updates models on an ongoing basis in order to and security documentation wherever possible.
However, when reflect the impact of more recent data, changes to products and non-standard documentation is used, external lawyers are portfolios, and new regulatory requirements.
Extensive changes employed to review it on a case-by-case basis.
Mitigants were made to wholesale models between 2012 and 2014.
To a including any associated insurance are monitored throughout lesser extent, the impact of these changes continued through the life of the transaction to ensure that they perform as 2015, resulting in some downwards rating migrations across anticipated.
Similarly, documentation is also monitored to ensure internal asset quality bands.
For further information, refer to the it remains enforceable.
Asset quality section on page 188.
For further information refer to the sub-sections on Wholesale Model changes affect year-on-year comparisons of risk measures credit risk management and Personal credit risk management.
Where meaningful, in commentary RBS has differentiated between instances where movements in risk Counterparty credit risk measures reflect the impact of model changes and those where RBS mitigates counterparty credit risk arising from both such movements reflect changes in the size of underlying credit derivatives transaction and repurchase agreements through the portfolios or their credit quality.
use of netting, collateral and market standard documentation.
For more information on model governance and review refer to Amounts owed by RBS to a counterparty are netted against the Model section on page 138 and to the RBS Pillar 3 2015 amounts the counterparty owes the bank, in accordance with Report.
relevant regulatory and internal policies.
However, generally, this is only done if a netting and collateral agreement is in place as Risk mitigation well as a legal opinion to the effect that the agreement is Risk mitigation techniques are used in the management of credit enforceable in the relevant jurisdictions.
portfolios across RBS, typically to mitigate credit concentrations in relation to an individual customer, a borrower group or a Collateral may consist of either cash or securities.
In the case of collection of related borrowers.
Where possible, customer credit derivatives, collateral generally takes the form of cash.
In the balances are netted against obligations.
Mitigation tools applied case of securities financing transactions, collateral usually takes can include: structuring a security interest in a physical or the form of debt securities and, to a much lesser extent, equity financial asset: use of credit derivatives, including credit default securities at the outset.
However, if the value of collateral falls swaps, credit-linked debt instruments and securitisation relative to the obligation, RBS may require additional collateral in structures: and use of guarantees and similar instruments for the form of cash variation margin.
The vast majority of example, credit insurance from related and third parties.
When agreements are subject to daily collateral calls with collateral seeking to mitigate risk, at a minimum RBS considers the valued using RBSs internal valuation methodologies.
following: Industry standard documentation - such as master repurchase The suitability of the proposed risk mitigation, particularly if agreements and credit support annexes accompanied by legal restrictions apply: opinion - is used for financial collateral taken as part of trading The means by which legal certainty is to be established, activities.
including required documentation, supportive legal opinions and the steps needed to establish legal rights: RBS restricts counterparty credit exposures by setting limits that The acceptability of the methodologies to be used for initial take into account the potential adverse movement of an exposure and subsequent valuation of collateral, the frequency of after adjusting for the impact of netting and collateral where valuations and the advance rates given: applicable.
The actions which can be taken if the value of collateral or other mitigants is less than needed: Risk assessment and monitoring The risk that the value of mitigants and counterparty credit Practices for credit stewardship - including credit assessment, quality may deteriorate simultaneously: approval and monitoring as well as the identification and The need to manage concentration risks arising from management of problem debts - differ between the wholesale collateral types: and and personal portfolios.
For further information refer to the The need to ensure that any risk mitigation remains legally relevant sub-sections on pages 189 and 203.
A key aspect of effective and enforceable.
credit risk stewardship is ensuring that, when signs of impairment are identified, appropriate impairment provisions are recognised.
Impairment, provisioning and write-offs In the overall assessment of credit risk, impairment, provisioning and write-offs are used as key indicators of credit quality.
The impairment, provisioning and write-off processes are described in more detail below.
unaudited 184 Business review Capital and risk management Impairment Provisioning A financial asset is impaired if there is objective evidence that the The amount of an impairment loss is measured as the difference amount, or timing, of future cash flows has been adversely between the asset carrying amount and the present value of the affected since its initial recognition.
Refer to accounting policies estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets on page 273 for details regarding the quantification of impairment original effective interest rate.
The current net realisable value of losses.
the collateral will be taken into account in determining the need for a provision.
This includes cash flows from foreclosure less Days-past-due measures are typically used to identify evidence costs of obtaining and selling the collateral, whether or not of impairment.
In both Wholesale and Personal portfolios, a foreclosure is probable.
Impairment provisions are not recognised period of 90 days past due is used.
In sovereign portfolios, the where amounts due are expected to be settled in full on the period used is 180 days past due.
Indicators of impairment realisation of collateral.
RBS uses one of the following three include the borrowers financial condition: a forbearance event: a methods to quantify the provision required: individual: collective: loan restructuring: the probability of bankruptcy: or any evidence and latent, as set out below: of diminished cash flows.
Provision method Customer type Quantification method Key factors considered Customer and guarantor performance.
Case-by-case Impaired, individually Future value of collateral.
Individual assessment of future significant Future economic conditions based on factors cashflows available at the time.
Impaired but not Value of security.
individually significant, Quantitative review of Historical and projected cash recovery trends.
Collective grouped into relevant portfolio Current economic conditions.
For wholesale customers PD, LGD and EAD values are used.
For personal, calculations are performed at portfolio level by product e. g. mortgages, credit cards or PD% x LGD% x EAD x Latent Not impaired unsecured loans.
Emergence Period Portfolio-level emergence periods are based on products or businesses with similar homogenous characteristics.
Emergence periods range from 120 to 274 days.
Refer to pages 218 to 223 for an analysis of impaired loans, Available-for-sale portfolios related provisions and impairments.
Refer to page 273 for details Available-for-sale portfolios are also regularly reviewed for of accounting policies.
For details on collateral, refer to the evidence of impairment, including: default or delinquency in Counterparty credit risk section on page 184 as well as the interest or principal payments: significant financial difficulty of the Wholesale and Personal risk mitigation sections on pages 189 issuer or obligor: and increased likelihood that the issuer will and 203. enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation.
The Restructuring credit team will ultimately recommend or Determining whether evidence of impairment exists requires the approve any provision that may be required.
It should be noted that the Sensitivity of impairments to assumptions following factors are not, of themselves, evidence of impairment, Key assumptions relating to impairment levels relate to economic but may be evidence of impairment when considered with other conditions, the interest rate environment, the ease and timing of factors: enforcing loan agreements in varying legal jurisdictions and the level of customer co-operation.
Disappearance of an active market because an entitys financial instruments are no longer publicly traded.
In addition, for secured lending, key assumptions relate to the A downgrade of an entitys credit rating.
valuation of the security and collateral held, as well as the timing A decline in the fair value of a financial asset below its cost and cost of asset disposals based on underlying market depth or amortised cost.
Assessments are made by relationship managers on a case-by-case basis for  provisions and are validated by credit teams.
For individual impairments greater than 1 million, oversight is provided by the RBS Provisions Committee.
185 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Write-offs Amounts recovered after a loan has been written-off are credited Impaired loans and receivables are written-off when there is no to the loan impairment charge for the period in which they are longer any realistic prospect of recovery of part, or the entire received.
For loans that are individually assessed for impairment, the timing of write-off is determined on a case-by-case basis.
Such loans are reviewed regularly and write-offs may be prompted by bankruptcy, insolvency, forbearance and similar events.
For details of the typical time frames, from initial impairment to write off, for collectively assessed portfolios refer to the accounting policies section on 281.
2 Rest of World comprises Asia Pacific, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Central Asia and Africa, and supranationals such as the World Bank.
4 Forbearance stock: Wholesale forbearance stock represents loans that have been subject to a forbearance event in the two years up to the reported date.
Personal forbearance stock is reflective of all forbearance granted up to the reporting date refer to individual Personal section on page 203 for further details.
Overall personal forbearance stock, based on EBA definition is 7.0 billion, the main contributor for the difference being exit criteria after a defined period of satisfactory performance.
5 Personal provisions include 425 million of provisions against personal customers within Business Banking as well as 391 million of latent provisions, of which 283 million against residential mortgage lending.
unaudited 186 Business review Capital and risk management Key points The following key portfolios are either designated high-oversight The number of Watch Red customers continued to decrease sectors under the sector framework or constitute a material during 2015 due to a reduced flow of new cases as well as proportion of CRAs and are discussed in more detail below.
through customers being taken off Watch as their financial position improved.
Commercial Real Estate CRE in Property - refer to page 195: The reduction in AQ10 assets during the year was primarily Oil & Gas in Natural Resources - refer to page 198: due to RCR, within Capital Resolution, completing its Mining & Metals in Natural Resources - refer to page 200: targeted run-down by the end of 2015.
Automotive - refer to page 201: There was a significant amount of credit impairment release Shipping in Other - refer to page 202: and during 2015, in particular in RCR, within Capital Resolution, Personal, including mortgages - refer to page 203. where the favourable environment and efficient deal execution supported the disposal strategy.
Improved market The increase in the Personal portfolio was predominantly appetite and greater liquidity was demonstrated, particularly driven by activity in the UK and is in line with RBS strategy in Ireland, where assets have been realised more quickly to expand this portfolio.
For further information on Personal and at better prices, than previously anticipated.
The decrease in the Wholesale portfolio Lower customer defaults within the business and was observed in a majority of sectors reflecting a continued commercial elements resulted in only modest new focus on risk reduction and improving overall credit quality.
impairments in the Wholesale portfolio.
The majority of The increase in sovereigns reflected Treasury activity.
provisions in the Wholesale portfolio relate to CRE.
For For Wholesale, the decreased flow into forbearance during further details on the CRE portfolio refer to page 195.
2015, in comparison to 2014, reflected improving market conditions and a reduction in exit portfolios through RCRs disposal strategy.
41% of the total forbearance granted was related to non-performing loans with a provision coverage of 43% 2014 - 62%.
187 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued The AQ bands and corresponding probability of default ranges Asset quality are set out below: Credit grades are assigned at legal entity level for wholesale customers.
Indicative S&P AQ Band Probability of default rating AQ1 0% - 0.034% AAA to AA All credit grades map to both an RBS-level asset quality scale, AQ2 0.034% - 0.048% AAused for external financial reporting, and a master grading scale AQ3 0.048% - 0.095% A to Afor wholesale exposures, used for internal management reporting AQ4 0.095% - 0.381% BBB to BBBacross portfolios.
Accordingly, measures of risk exposure may be aggregated and reported at differing levels of detail depending on AQ5 0.381% - 1.076% BB to BB AQ6 1.076% - 2.153% BB to B stakeholder or business requirements.
Performing loans are defined as AQ1-AQ9 where the PD is less than 100% and nonAQ7 2.153% - 6.089% B to B performing loans as AQ10 where the PD is 100%.
AQ8 6.089% - 17.222% Bto CCC AQ9 17.222% - 100% CCC to C AQ10 100% D A breakdown of RBSs asset quality is set out in the chart below: 160000 Wholesale - CRA 140000 Personal - CRA 120000 100000 80000 60000 40000 20000 0 AQ1 AQ2 AQ3 AQ4 AQ5 AQ6 AQ7 AQ8 AQ9 AQ10 Other 1 Note: 1 Largely comprises assets covered by the standardised approach, for which a probability of default equivalent to those assigned to assets covered by the internal ratings based approach is not available.
Standardised exposures sit predominantly within CPB.
unaudited 188 millions 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Business review Capital and risk management Wholesale credit risk management This section sets out further detail on RBSs approach to credit risk management for its Wholesale customers.
Four formal frameworks are used to manage Wholesale credit concentration risks within RBSs risk appetite.
These frameworks are regularly reassessed to ensure they remain appropriate for RBSs varied business franchises, economic and market conditions and to reflect refinements in risk measurement models as well as agreed risk appetite.
A summary of the frameworks is set out below Concentration framework Single name SNC Sector Product and asset class Country Risk addressed Outsized loss due to Concentration in a single Concentration on certain Concentration on a concentration on a single sector or across sectors products or asset particular country.
that are susceptible to classes.
Basis for classification Size or LGD - based on net Size - based on exposure: Size - based on Size - based on exposure customer exposure for a and Risk - based on exposure to a product or to a particular country.
Economic Capital and asset class.
Limit types Customer exposure and Bank-wide and franchise Bank-wide and franchise Bank-wide country limits.
LGD limits relative to PD.
sector and sub-sector product asset class exposure limits.
Controls within the Elevated approval requirements, monitoring and reporting, the requirement for regular reviews and for plans to framework address any exposures in excess of limit.
Exposure measure Both net and gross of Gross exposure to a Net gross - dependent Net of provisions and risk net gross eligible mitigants.
eligible under the framework, mitigants must be legally enforceable, structurally effective and of appropriate maturity.
Recent developments The aggregate SNC Risk appetite for the Oil & Risk appetite limits were Risk appetite limits were exposures remain outside Gas, Retail & Leisure, reduced taking account reduced for exit countries RBSs long-term risk Automotive and of the revised risk taking account of the appetite.
However material Commercial Real Estate appetite associated with revised risk appetite and reductions were achieved sectors was reduced.
This the restructured CIB international strategy.
There was took into account business.
a 40% decrease in the market economic number of SNC excesses conditions and the during 2015 15% increase successful execution of in exposure - however a risk the RCR strategy to mitigation strategy is in reduce exposures to place to reduce this.
top ten SNC excesses comprised 90% of total SNC excesses.
unaudited 189 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Refinancing risk - the risk of loss arising from the failure of a Risk assessment customer to settle an obligation on expiry of a facility Before credit facilities are made available to customers a credit through the drawdown of another credit facility provided by assessment is undertaken.
The assessment process is the same RBS or by another lender: for all customers.
However, in RBS credit risk management is Consideration of other risks such as environmental, social organised in terms of the complexity of the assessment rather and ethical, regulatory and reputational risks: and than aligned to franchises.
Capital Resolution is not managed The portfolio impact of the transaction, including the impact separately but is shown in tables to aid understanding of the size on any credit risk concentration limits or agreed business of the exit portfolio.
Credit is only granted to customers following franchise risk appetite.
joint approval by an approver from the business and the credit risk function.
Where the customer is part of a group, the credit assessment considers aggregated credit risk limits for the customer group as These approvers act within a delegated approval authority under well as the nature of the relationship with the broader group e. g. the wholesale Credit Authorities Framework CAF approved by parental support and its impact on credit risk.
At a minimum, credit relationships are reviewed and re-approved The level of delegated authority held by approvers is dependent annually.
The renewal process addresses borrower performance, on their experience and expertise.
Only a small number of senior including reconfirmation or adjustment of risk parameter executives hold the highest authority provided under the CAF.
estimates: the adequacy of security: compliance with terms and Both business and credit approvers are accountable for the conditions: and refinancing risk.
quality of each decision taken but the credit risk approver holds ultimate sanctioning authority.
Risk mitigation RBS mitigates credit risk through the use of netting, collateral and In 2015, new Transaction Acceptance Standards TAS were market standard documentation, depending on the nature of the introduced to provide more detailed transactional lending and risk counterparty and its assets.
The most common types of acceptance guidelines which are one of the tools to control risk mitigation are: appetite at the customer transaction level.
TAS are supplementary to Credit Policy.
Commercial real estate - Refer to CRE section on page 195.
Other physical assets - Including stock, plant, equipment, When assessing credit risk the following must be considered at a machinery, vehicles, ships and aircraft.
Such assets are minimum: suitable collateral only if RBS can identify, locate, and segregate them from other assets on which it does not have The amount, terms, tenor, structure, conditions, purpose a claim.
RBS values physical assets in a variety of ways, and appropriateness of all credit facilities: depending on the type of asset and may rely on balance Compliance with relevant credit policies and transaction sheet valuations in certain cases.
acceptance standards: Receivables - These are amounts owed to RBSs The customers ability to meet obligations, based on an counterparties by their own customers.
RBS values them analysis of financial information: after taking into account the quality of its counterpartys A review of payment and covenant compliance history: receivable management processes and excluding any that The customers risk profile, including sector, sensitivity to are past due.
economic and market developments and management Financial collateral - Refer to Counterparty credit risk section capability: on page 184.
Legal capacity of the customer to engage in the transaction: Credit risk mitigation including requirements for valuation All collateral is assessed case by case to ensure that it will retain and revaluation.
The customers credit grade and the loss its value independently of the provider.
RBS monitors the value of given default estimate for the facilities: the collateral and, if there is a shortfall, will seek additional The requirement for the provision of financial information, collateral.
covenants and or monitoring formulae to monitor the customers financial performance: unaudited 190 Business review Capital and risk management Shipping valuations - Vessel valuations are performed by RBSOnce on the Watchlist a number of mandatory actions are taken, approved brokers.
Each broker has a number of vessels to value including a review of the customers credit grade and facility and according to its specific area of expertise.
Depending on the severity of the undertaken on a desktop basis on a willing buyer willing seller financial difficulty and the size of the exposure, the customer and charter-free basis.
All valuations are in writing, instructed by relationship strategy is reassessed by credit officers, by specialist and addressed to RBS.
Valuations are performed on a quarterly credit risk or relationship management units in the relevant basis.
From time to time, particularly for facilities showing business or by Restructuring.
increased signs of financial stress, a more formal valuation will be obtained.
In more material cases, a forum of experienced credit, portfolio management and remedial management specialists in either the Commercial real estate valuations - RBS has a panel of relevant business or Restructuring may reassess the customer chartered surveying firms that cover the spectrum of geography relationship strategy.
and property sectors in which RBS takes collateral.
RBS has a programme that identifies suitable valuers for particular assets.
Appropriate corrective action is taken when circumstances They are contracted through a single service agreement to emerge that may affect the customers ability to service its debt.
ensure consistency of quality and advice.
Valuations are Such circumstances include deteriorating trading performance, commissioned when an asset is taken as security: a material imminent breach of covenant, challenging macroeconomic increase in a facility is requested: or an event of default is conditions, a late payment or the expectation of a missed anticipated or has occurred.
In the UK, RBS also applies an payment.
independent third-party market indexation to update external valuations once they are more than a year old.
Remediation strategies available in the business include granting a customer various types of concessions.
Any decision to Problem debt management approve a concession will be a function of specific country and Early problem identification sector appetite, the credit quality of the customer, the market Each segment has defined early warning indicators EWIs to environment and the loan structure and security.
For further identify customers experiencing financial difficulty, and to information, refer to the Wholesale forbearance section below.
EWIs may be internal, such as a customers bank account activity, or external, such as a publiclyOther potential outcomes of the relationship review are to: take listed customers share price.
If EWIs show a customer is the customer off the Watchlist: offer additional lending and experiencing potential or actual difficulty, or if relationship continue monitoring: transfer the relationship to Restructuring if managers or credit officers identify other signs of financial appropriate: or exit the relationship altogether.
difficulty they may decide to place the customer on the Watchlist.
Customers managed in Capital Resolution are by their nature RBS has reviewed the Watchlist process and will implement a subject to heightened scrutiny and regular review against specific new Risk of Credit Loss framework in early 2016.
This will ensure disposal plans.
Capital Resolution customers are separately the problem debt portfolio is managed consistently and efficiently, identified in RBSs internal Watchlist reporting, with their with added focus on customers whose credit profiles have Watchlist classification based on asset quality.
deteriorated outside original risk appetite.
Restructuring Watchlist The Restructuring team manages customer relationships with For customers not managed in Capital Resolution, there are RBSs wholesale problem debt portfolio.
The factor common to all three Watch classifications - Amber, Red and Black - reflecting customers with Restructuring involvement is that RBSs exposure progressively deteriorating conditions.
The primary function of Restructuring is to restore customers to an acceptable credit profile, minimise losses Watch Amber customers are performing customers who show to RBS and protect RBSs capital.
early signs of potential financial difficulty, or have other characteristics that warrant closer monitoring.
Specialists in Restructuring work with customers experiencing financial difficulties, and showing signs of financial stress, with Watch Red customers are performing customers who show signs the aim of restoring their business to financial health whenever of declining creditworthiness and so require active management.
The objective is to find a mutually acceptable solution, When a customer is classified as Watch Red, the Restructuring including restructuring of existing facilities, repayment or team engaged to consider whether the relationship should be refinancing if that is the customers preferred option.
Watch Red customers who continue to be managed outside of restructuring tend to be those requiring specialist subject matter expertise that is only available outside of Restructuring.
The Watch Black portfolio includes AQ10 exposures.
unaudited 191 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Payment concessions and loan rescheduling including Specialists within Restructuring conduct a detailed assessment of extensions in contractual maturity the viability of the business, as well as the ability of management May be granted to improve the customers liquidity or on the to deal with the causes of financial difficulty, focusing on both expectation that the customers liquidity will recover when financial and operational issues.
Following the assessment, market conditions improve.
In addition, they may be granted options which may include forbearance and or restructuring of if the customer will benefit from access to alternative facilities are developed.
Credit risk decisions, including reviewing sources of liquidity, such as an issue of equity capital.
These and approving any operational and financial restructuring options have been used in CRE transactions, particularly solutions in relation to these customers, are made by a dedicated during periods where a shortage of market liquidity has ruled Restructuring Credit team, which is part of the credit risk out immediate refinancing and made short-term collateral management function.
Debt forgiveness debt for equity swap Where a solvent solution is not possible, insolvency may be May be granted where the customers business condition or considered as a last resort.
However, helping the customer return economic environment is such that it cannot meet to financial health and restoring a normal banking relationship is obligations and where other forms of forbearance are always the desired goal.
Debt forgiveness can be used for stressed corporate transactions and is typically structured Forbearance on the basis of projected cash flows from operational Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the activities, rather than underlying tangible asset values.
contractual terms of a loan in response to a customers financial Provided that the underlying business model, strategy and difficulties.
Concessions granted where there is no evidence of debt level are viable, maintaining the business as a going financial difficulty, or where any changes to terms and conditions concern is the preferred option, rather than realising the are within usual risk appetite for a new customer, or reflect value of the underlying assets.
improving credit market conditions for the customer, are not considered forbearance.
Loans may be forborne more than once, generally where a temporary concession has been granted and circumstances The aim of forbearance is to restore the customer to financial warrant another temporary or permanent revision of the loans health while minimising risk to RBS.
To ensure that forbearance terms.
All customers are assigned a PD and related facilities an is appropriate for the needs and financial profile of the customer, LGD.
These are re-assessed prior to finalising any forbearance RBS applies minimum standards when assessing, recording, arrangement in light of the loans amended terms and any monitoring and reporting forbearance.
revised grading is incorporated in the calculation of the impairment loss provisions for RBSs wholesale exposures.
Types of wholesale forbearance The type of forbearance offered is tailored to the customers The ultimate outcome of a forbearance strategy is unknown at individual circumstances.
For wholesale customers forbearance the time of execution.
It is highly dependent on the cooperation of may involve the following types of concessions: the borrower and the continued existence of a viable business.
Where forbearance is no longer viable, RBS will consider other Covenant waiver options such as the enforcement of security, insolvency A recalibration of covenants or a covenant amendment may proceedings or both.
The following are generally considered to be be used to cure a potential or actual covenant breach.
In options of last resort: return for this relief, RBS would seek to obtain a return commensurate with the risk that it is required to take.
The Enforcement of security or otherwise taking control of assets increased return for the increased risk can be structured - Where RBS holds collateral or other security interest and is flexibly to take into account the customers circumstances.
entitled to enforce its rights, it may enforce its security or For example it may be structured as either increased margin otherwise take control of the assets.
The preferred strategy on a cash or payment-in-kind basis, deferred-return is to consider other possible options prior to exercising these instruments or both.
While RBS considers these types of rights.
concessions qualitatively different from other forms of Insolvency - Where there is no suitable forbearance option forbearance, they constitute a significant proportion of or the business is no longer sustainable, insolvency will be wholesale forborne loans and are therefore included in considered.
Insolvency may be the only option that ensures these disclosures.
that the assets of the business are properly and efficiently Amendment to margin distributed to relevant creditors.
Contractual margin may be amended to bolster the customers day-to-day liquidity to help sustain its business as a going concern.
This would normally be a short-term solution.
RBS would seek a return commensurate to the risk that it is required to take.
192 Business review Capital and risk management Provisions for forborne wholesale loans are assessed in In the case of non-performing forborne loans, the loan accordance with normal provisioning policies refer to Impairment impairment provision assessment almost invariably takes place loss provision methodology.
The customers financial position prior to forbearance being granted.
The amount of the loan and prospects as well as the likely effect of the forbearance, impairment provision may change once the terms of the including any concessions granted, are considered in order to forbearance are known, resulting in an additional provision establish whether an impairment provision is required.
charge or a release of the provision in the period the forbearance is granted.
Wholesale loans granted forbearance are individually assessed in most cases and are not therefore segregated into a separate The transfer of wholesale loans subject to forbearance from risk pool.
impaired to performing status follows assessment by relationship managers and the Restructuring credit risk function.
When no Forbearance may result in the value of the outstanding debt further losses are anticipated and the customer is expected to exceeding the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
meet the loans revised terms, any provision is written off and the This may result in the recognition of an impairment loss or a balance of the loan returned to performing status.
action is not dependent on a specified time period and follows the credit risk managers assessment that it is appropriate.
For performing loans, credit metrics are an integral part of the latent provision methodology and therefore the impact of covenant concessions will be reflected in the latent provision.
For non-performing loans, covenant concessions will be considered in determining the overall provision for these loans.
Flow into forbearance The table below shows the value of loans excluding loans where RBS has initiated recovery procedures where forbearance was completed during the year, by sector and types.
This only includes the forborne facility exposure.
No exit criteria are currently applied.
Forbearance arrangements The table below shows the incidence of the main types of Wholesale renegotiations.
2015 2014 Wholesale renegotiations during the year by type 1,2 m m Payment concessions 2,747 7,014 Non-payment concessions 1,111 1,692 Total 3,858 8,706 Notes: 1 Forbearance arrangements in 2014 included 133 million of payment and 177 million of non-payment refinancing concessions respectively: refinancing forbearance arrangements in 2015 totalled nil.
2 Previously reported forbearance types are classified as non-payment covenant concessions, release of security and payment payment concessions and loan rescheduling, forgiveness of all or part of the outstanding debt, variation in margin, standstill agreements.
193 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Key points Additional provisions charged in 2015 and relating to loans The decrease in completed forbearance during 2015 forborne during 2014 totalled 0.2 billion, predominantly compared with 2014 was in line both with improving market driven by RCR and Restructuring cases.
Provision coverage conditions, the RCR disposal strategy and portfolio of these loans at 31 December 2015 was 66%.
Year-on-year analysis of forborne loans 0.9 billion of completed forbearance granted during the may be skewed by individual material cases during a given year related to exposures managed by RCR.
forbearance as a tool to assist with the orderly realisation of Loans totalling 1.7 billion were granted approval for assets.
forbearance but had not yet reached legal completion at 31 Non-RCR customers were granted forbearance on loan December 2015 2014 - 4.3 billion.
These exposures are facilities totalling 3.0 billion, of which 1.3 billion was referred to as in process and are not included in the tables managed by Restructuring during 2015.
64% 1.1 billion of these in process exposures 48% of loans managed by Restructuring excluding loans to related to non-performing customers, with associated customers where recovery procedures have commenced.
36% 0.6 billion related to By value, 90% 1.5 billion of the performing non-RCR performing loans.
The principal types of arrangements loans granted forbearance in 2014 remained performing at offered were payment concessions and loan rescheduling.
Forbearance in the Natural Resources sector cluster Provisions for the non-performing loans disclosed above are showed a material increase over 2015, given the sectors individually assessed and therefore not directly comparable challenges.
Refer to page 197 for further information.
Provision coverage decreased in 2015, Forbearance in the Transport sector cluster was historically which is reflective of the lower proportion of the forborne driven by RCR exposure to the Shipping sector.
There have portfolio that RCR customers represent compared to the been lower levels of forbearance in the Shipping portfolio in prior year.
RCR customers have a higher provision 2015 as a result of the RCR disposal strategy.
There was an coverage than the non-RCR portfolio given the nature of the increase in the volume of Non-RCR Shipping exposures RCR strategy.
granted forbearance, though these were on average smaller The data presented in the tables above include loans than those granted forbearance in 2014.
Refer to page 202 forborne during 2015 and 2014.
Until April 2014 a reporting for further information.
threshold was in place which ranged from nil to 3 million The value of loans forborne during 2014 and 2015 and still after which no thresholds were in use.
A number of outstanding at 31 December 2015 was 5.6 billion 2014 - immaterial portfolios have forbearance assessed under a 12.2 billion, of which 1.7 billion related to arrangements portfolio approach.
completed during 2014 2014 - 3.4 billion completed in 2013.
194 Business review Capital and risk management Key credit portfolios New business is monitored and controlled against agreed Commercial real estate underwriting standards.
Sub-sector and asset class limits are The CRE sector relates to lending activity for the development of, used to restrict exposure to emerging risks when appropriate.
and investment in, commercial and residential properties.
This activity is reviewed and monitored on a regular basis.
A dedicated portfolio controls team is responsible for portfolio CRE occupier market fundamentals have improved gradually strategy, credit risk appetite and policies, as well as oversight of over the last year as a result of stable economic growth.
Areas of valuations and environmental frameworks.
The sector is reviewed weakness remain in secondary, regional retail and provincial regularly at senior executive committees.
Reviews include office locations but, overall, vacancy rates are declining and portfolio credit quality, capital consumption and control rental values are showing signs of growth across a wide range of frameworks.
The strongest rental growth to date has been in and around London, but it is now spreading to the In Commercial Banking, lending applications are reviewed by wider south-east of England area and key regional centres.
Over specialist CRE transactional credit teams, including a dedicated 2015, CRE investment activity was marginally down on the development team.
Lending guidelines and policy are informed record levels seen in 2014, despite a very strong start in the first by lessons learned from the 2008 financial crisis.
There was continued demand from overseas investors who accounted for 50% of the total value of all UK commercial property acquisitions in 2015.
Key points Overall gross CRE lending fell due to asset sales, Commercial Banking manages the majority 18.1 billion of repayments and write-offs.
The Commercial Banking Further divestments of Williams & Glyn 3.3 billion and portfolio shape and size remained broadly stable during Capital Resolution 2.8 billion will leave the CRE portfolio 2015, with significant exposure 12.2 billion in the concentrated in the UK and Ireland.
unaudited 195 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued CRE exposure by LTV band The table below provides a breakdown of the CRE portfolio by LTV band, along with provision coverage.
Provisions are marked against these loans where required to reflect the relevant asset quality and recovery profile.
Key points The LTVs in the table above continued to be affected by the Accelerated divestment of legacy exits assets has reduced legacy portfolio.
Loans originated during 2015 are the amount of non-performing exposure with minimal considered in line with current market terms in relation to security.
The remaining non-performing exposure with minimal The proportion of the book with LTV higher than 75% security has a 94% provision coverage in place.
Total reduced year on year, due to maintained underwriting individual provisions for the non-performing CRE book are standards applied on new lending and ongoing 1.5 billion and collective provisions of 0.4 billion, which improvements in the economy.
equates to a provision coverage of 50%.
Exposures with LTVs greater than 100% are predominantly The exposure in Other relates predominantly to lending to legacy deals.
It is not asset-backed but secured against corporate balance sheets.
The weighted average maturity profile for Commercial Banking was three years and two months, which has remained broadly unchanged since 2014. unaudited 196 Business review Capital and risk management Asset quality Key point Accelerated divestments in Capital Resolution have contributed significantly to the improvement in portfolio quality during the year.
21.1 billion of the portfolio was AQ6 B or better, reflecting maintained underwriting standards and improved economic conditions in the markets in which RBS operates.
Natural Resources RBSs exposure to Natural Resources in terms of CRA and TCE total exposure including committed but undrawn facilities, is set out below.
This reflected proactive credit management, sub-sectors.
The majority of the exposure is to large continued loan sales and run-off across the CIB portfolio in international customers and matures within five years.
Commodity Traders: CRA and TCE more than halved during 2015.
The remaining exposure is mainly to the largest and most dominant traders in physical commodities unaudited 197 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Oil & Gas Asset quality 9,000 8,000 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 - AQ1 AQ2 AQ3 AQ4 AQ5 AQ6 AQ7 AQ8 AQ9 AQ10 Other 1 Note: 1 Largely comprises assets covered by the standardised approach, for which a probability of default equivalent to those assigned to assets covered by the internal ratings based approach is not available.
The tables below provide a breakdown of Oil & Gas sector exposure including committed but undrawn exposure split by sub-sector and geography.
The analysis is based on RBSs sector concentration framework.
Other Western UK RoI Europe US RoW 1 Total 2015 m m m m m m Producers incl.
integrated oil companies 1,139 114 1,137 4,996 1,309 8,695 Oilfield service providers 438 4 693 1,086 1,406 3,627 Other wholesale and trading activities 489 135 798 685 1,040 3,147 Refineries 50 24 154 2,720 806 3,754 Pipelines 118 50 2,420 203 2,791 2,234 277 2,832 11,907 4,764 22,014 Including committed undrawn exposures of which: exploration and production 145 3 3,118 302 3,568 Note: 1 Rest of World comprises Asia Pacific, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Central Asia and Africa unaudited 198 millions 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Business review Capital and risk management Key points The other principal components of exposure to producers Oil prices fell materially during 2015 reaching a 12-year low are Integrated Oil Companies IOCs and National Oil by 31 December 2015.
Market expectations are for oil prices Companies NOCs.
IOCs and NOCs are less vulnerable to to continue to be weak in the short to medium-term as a the oil price decline due to scale, diversification and, in the result of global oversupply due to OPEC maintaining a high case of NOCs, explicit support from governments.
Committed lending exposure included legal commitments to During 2015, RBS carried out in-depth analysis, stress syndicated bank facilities with tenors up to five years.
These testing and contagion risk analysis on the Oil & Gas sector.
committed facilities are for general corporate purposes - Proactive credit stewardship, together with disposals in the including funding operating needs and capital expenditures - US and Asia-Pacific, reduced the portfolio to 3.5 billion and are available as long as counterparties comply with the 2014 - 9.4 billion on a CRA basis, of which 1.6 billion terms of the credit agreement.
Contingent obligations relate was in Capital Resolution at 31 December 2015.
Oil & Gas to guarantees, letters of credit and suretyships provided to represented 0.8% of the Wholesale portfolio, excluding customers.
RBS had no high-yield bond or loan underwriting Capital Resolution.
positions at 31 December 2015 2014 - US$86 million highThe portfolio management strategy during the year was to yield loan underwritings in the Americas.
focus the portfolio towards investment grade customers with There was an increase in the number of forbearance events, robust credit profiles and strong liquidity to manage through predominantly involving the relaxation of financial covenants the extended downturn.
At 31 December 2015, 65% 2014 - to give customers more financial flexibility.
Most 75% of the portfolio exposure was investment grade AQ1- forbearance involved customers in the E&P and oilfield AQ4 or equivalent to BBBand above.
The decrease was services sub-sectors where earnings have been more mainly due to disposals in the US and Asia-Pacific.
immediately and materially affected by the downturn.
The sub-sector in which a customer operates is a primary The number and value of cases on Watch in the Oil & Gas consideration for assessing credit risk.
Customers involved sector increased during the year.
However these related in exploration and production E&P are most immediately predominantly to Watch Amber classifications as the sector exposed to the oil price decline.
Companies involved in this continues to be monitored closely.
area have already introduced capital spending reductions to At 31 December 2015, Watch Red exposures outside conserve cash.
In turn, this reduced spending is likely to Capital Resolution totalled 93 million 2014 - 54 million have an adverse impact on oilfield service providers.
due to the E&P companies buying fewer products and The increase in AQ10 reflected changing market conditions services from the oilfield service providers, and demanding which resulted in a limited number of customers lower prices for those they do purchase.
experiencing financial stress during the year.
AQ10 assets at 31 December 2105 totalled 138 million.
unaudited 199 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Mining & Metals Asset quality 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 - AQ1 AQ2 AQ3 AQ4 AQ5 AQ6 AQ7 AQ8 AQ9 AQ10 Other 1 Note: 1 Largely comprises assets covered by the standardised approach, for which a probability of default equivalent to those assigned to assets covered by the internal ratings based approach is not available.
The tables below provide a breakdown of Mining & Metals sector exposure including committed but undrawn exposure split by subsector and geography.
Other Western UK RoI Europe US RoW 1 Total 2015 m m m m m m Mining 259 59 138 395 851 Metals - production 158 4 411 13 55 641 - wholesale 167 3 289 125 29 613 584 7 759 276 479 2,105 2014 Mining 386 86 703 611 1,786 Metals - production 179 6 513 350 642 1,690 - wholesale 183 4 598 237 198 1,220 748 10 1,197 1,290 1,451 4,696 Note: 1 Rest of World comprises Asia Pacific, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Central Asia and Africa Key points Mining & Metals has been reclassified as a high-oversight The asset quality of the portfolio remained strong and 63% sector due to rising concerns over the economic slowdown 2014 - 60% of the portfolio was investment grade at 31 in China.
This was the result of management Mining & Metals represented 0.4% of the Wholesale strategy weighted towards market leaders in this sector.
The portfolio, excluding Capital Resolution.
bulk of the exposure was to large international customers.
RBSs exposure to this sector significantly decreased in The slight increase in AQ10 reflected challenging market 2015 primarily due to proactive credit management and conditions.
AQ10 assets at 31 December 2015 totalled 48 reductions in subsectors considered the most vulnerable million.
during the downward phase of this cycle as well as strategic disposals.
Key points The Automotive sector was reclassified as high-oversight to The global automotive market has shown good levels of allow assessment of contagion risk following the United growth over the last few years.
However, the underlying States Environmental Protection Agency statement on analysis is somewhat mixed with declines in Latin America emissions irregularities in the third quarter of 2015.
RBS and a slow growth trend in China offset by an increase in the carried out a detailed stress test and an extreme global US and Western Europe.
The results of these tests showed Automotive represented 2.4% of the Wholesale portfolio that the credit quality of the portfolio would not be materially excluding Capital Resolution.
The portfolio showed robust credit quality with strong returns The portfolio management strategy was focused on and below-average risk with no material changes in risk supporting counterparties with robust investment grade metrics during the year.
The majority of the portfolio comprised UK dealerships and Lombard asset finance facilities together with some international exposures.
The decrease in AQ10 was predominantly driven by proactive credit management and the run-off of RCR.
AQ10 assets at 31 December 2015 totalled 86 million.
unaudited 201 millions 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Shipping Asset quality 4,500 4,000 CRA 3,500 TCE 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 - AQ1 AQ2 AQ3 AQ4 AQ5 AQ6 AQ7 AQ8 AQ9 AQ10 Other 1 Note: 1 Largely comprises assets covered by the standardised approach, for which a probability of default equivalent to those assigned to assets covered by the internal ratings based approach is not available.
Key points The majority of ship-secured exposure was extended Shipping exposure was 7.1 billion 2014 - 10.1 billion at against modern vessels with a low average age of 31 December 2015.
5.9 billion 2014 - 7.9 billion related approximately seven years 2014 - 6.4 years.
Less than to asset-backed ocean-going vessels.
As the majority of 3% of the total Capital Resolution portfolio is secured by the Shipping exposure is within Capital Resolution, portfolio vessels that are more than 15 years old and around 85% metrics quoted below are for Capital Resolution only.
The 2014 - 87% was secured by vessels built in the last ten TCE decrease during 2015 reflected scheduled loan years.
Due to strategic considerations, RBS is providing repayments, secondary sales and corrections to minimum finance on a selective basis against delivered or secondsecurity covenants and prepayments.
hand vessels and generally at low leverage levels.
Sector concentration risks were in the Dry Bulk sub-sector A key protection for RBS was the minimum security which represented 37% of exposure 2014 - 38% : Tankers covenant.
was 84% 2014 - 77% reflecting the severe downturn The remaining exposures comprised gas including liquid being seen in the Dry Bulk sector.
Amortisation across the petroleum and natural gases, 14% 2014 - 10% and portfolio was approximately 7% per annum excluding early others 5% 2014 - 6%.
Conditions remained severely depressed in the Dry Bulk Asset values fall as markets deteriorate and rise as they sub-sector during 2015, with the Baltic Dry Index falling to a improve.
Therefore, even if exposure falls, the overall LTV 35-year low as a result of vessel oversupply and a greaterposition may rise or fall depending on the underlying value than-expected slowdown in commodity demand from of the vessels.
The Dry Bulk sub-sector saw asset value China.
Tanker market conditions were favourable and reductions of around 40-50% in 2015 15-20% in 2014, container markets stabilised over the year but remained with 15-20% falls in Q4 2015 alone.
This led to a rise in the weak in comparison to historic averages.
Most of the RBS average LTV.
In the Tankers sub-sector, LTVs showed the portfolio in container ships was insulated by long-term opposite - a lower leverage due to the stronger market charters, providing more stable long-term fixed cash flows.
conditions in that sector and amortisation.
At 31 December 2015, Watch Red exposures excluding RCR totalled 60.3 million 2014 - 6.6 million.
The reduction in AQ10 assets during 2015 was predominantly due to RCR, within Capital Resolution, unaudited completing its targeted run-down by the end of 2015.
AQ10 assets at 31 December 2015 totalled 362 million with provisions of 135 million.
202 millions 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Business review Capital and risk management Personal credit risk management In the process, they may consider granting the customer This section sets out further detail on RBSs approach to credit forbearance.
risk management for its personal customers.
Additionally, in the UK and Ireland support is provided to Risk appetite customers with unsecured loans who establish a repayment plan RBS uses a credit risk appetite framework to control credit risk for with RBS through a debt advice agency or a self-help tool.
The framework sets limits that measure breathing space suspends collections activity for a 30-day and control, for each relevant franchise or reportable segment, period to allow time for the repayment plan to be put in place.
the quality of both existing and new business.
The actual Arrears continue to accrue for customer loans granted breathing performance of each portfolio is tracked relative to these limits space.
and action taken where necessary.
These limits apply to a range If collections strategies are unsuccessful the relationship is of credit risk-related measures including expected loss of the transferred to the recoveries team.
portfolio, the expected loss in a given stress scenario, projected credit default rates and the LTV of personal mortgage portfolios.
Forbearance Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the Personal credit risk assessment contractual terms of a loan in response to a customer's financial Personal lending entails making a large number of small-value difficulties.
To ensure that these lending decisions are made consistently, RBS analyses credit information, including the Customers who contact RBS directly because of financial historical debt servicing behaviour of customers with respect to difficulties, or who are already in payment arrears, may be both RBS and their other lenders.
RBS then sets its lending rules granted forbearance.
In the course of assisting customers, more accordingly, developing different rules for different products.
The than one forbearance treatment may be granted.
process is then largely automated, with customers receiving a credit score that reflects a comparison of their credit profile with The type of forbearance granted will differ based upon an the rule set.
However, for relatively high-value, complex personal assessment of the customer's circumstances.
Forbearance is loans, including some residential mortgage lending, specialist granted principally to customers with mortgages and less credit managers make the final lending decisions.
frequently to customers with unsecured loans.
Personal risk mitigation Forbearance options include, but are not limited to: RBS takes collateral in the form of residential property to mitigate Payment concessions - A temporary reduction in, or the credit risk arising from mortgages and home equity lending.
elimination of, the periodic usually monthly loan repayment RBS values residential property during the loan underwriting is agreed with the customer.
At the end of the concessionary process by either appraising properties individually or valuing period, forborne principal and accrued interest outstanding them collectively using statistically valid models.
RBS updates is scheduled for repayment over an agreed period.
Ulster residential property values quarterly using the relevant residential Bank RoI also offers payment concessions in the form of property index, namely: discounted interest rates that involve the forgiveness of some interest.
Region Index used Capitalisation of arrears - The customer repays the arrears UK Halifax quarterly regional house price index over the remaining term of the mortgage and returns to an Northern Office for National Statistics house price index up-to-date position.
Ireland Term extensions - The maturity date of the loan is extended.
RoI Central Statistics Office residential property price Interest only conversions - The loan converts from principal index and interest repayment to interest only repayment on a permanent or, in Ulster Bank RoI only, temporary basis.
Problem debt management UK Personal, interest only conversions have not been used Personal customers in financial difficulty are managed through to support customers in financial difficulty since 2009. either collections or recoveries functions.
Further details of these Types of forbearance offered in the unsecured portfolios vary by are set out below: reportable segment.
Collections Monitoring of forbearance - The granting of forbearance will only Collections functions in each of RBSs personal businesses change the delinquency status of the loan in exceptional provide support to customers who cannot meet their obligations circumstances, which can include capitalisation of principal and to RBS.
Such customers may miss a payment on their loan, interest in arrears, where the loan may be returned to the borrow more than their agreed limit, or ask for help.
Dedicated performing book if it remains up to date for the duration of the support teams are also in place to identify and help customers probation period and is deemed likely to continue to do so.
who have not yet missed a payment but may be facing financial Additionally for some forbearance types a loan may be difficulty.
The collections function uses a range of tools to initiate transferred to the performing book if a customer makes payments contact with such customers, establish the cause of their financial that reduce loan arrears below 90 days Ulster Bank RoI, PBB difficulty and support them where possible.
unaudited 203 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Impairments for forbearance Methodology used for provisioning and impairments for forborne loans will differ depending on whether the loans are performing or non-performing and which business is managing them due to local market conditions.
The type of provisioning methodology used and specific factors considered for forborne loans is summarised below: 1 Performing forborne loans - Latent calculation Non-performing forborne loans Difference in PD LGD used for forborne population Treatment Difference in LGD used for forborne population UK PBB excl Forborne loans form a separate risk pool for 24 Collective No difference in treatment for non-forborne Northern months.
loans, LGD models unaffected by Ireland and Calculation uses the higher of the observed forbearance.
W&G forborne and total population default rates, or PD.
An extended emergence period is incorporated for forborne loans.
Northern The PD model used in latent provision Collective No difference in treatment for non-forborne Ireland calculations is calibrated separately for forborne loans.
LGD models unaffected by loans, using information on the historic forbearance.
performance of loans subject to similar arrangements.
Ulster Bank Forborne loans and previous forborne loans Collective Forborne and previously forborne loans form RoI form a separate risk pool taking into account the a separate risk pool where specific LGDs are term of the forbearance treatment and allocated using observed performance of applicable post-probationary periods.
The PD model used in latent provision calculations is calibrated separately for forborne loans, using information on the historic performance of loans subject to similar arrangements.
Private An extended emergence period is incorporated Individual No difference in treatment for non-forborne Banking for forborne loans.
loans, LGD models unaffected by forbearance.
RBSI Individual An extended emergence period may be No difference in treatment non-forborne incorporated for forborne loans via management loans, LGD models unaffected by overlay reviewed regularly in line with market forbearance.
Note: 1 Once such loans are no longer separately identified, the use of account level PDs, refreshed monthly in the latent provision methodology, captures the underlying credit risk without a material time lag.
There is no reassessment of the PD at the time forbearance is granted but the loan is subject to the latent provisioning described above.
204 Business review Capital and risk management Recoveries Where an acceptable repayment arrangement cannot be agreed Once a loan has been identified as impaired it is managed by with the customer litigation may be considered.
In the UK and recoveries teams in the relevant businesses.
The teams seek to Northern Ireland, no repossession procedures are initiated until at minimise RBSs loss by maximising cash recovery while treating least six months following the emergence of arrears in the customers fairly.
Republic of Ireland, regulations prohibit taking legal action for an extended period.
Additionally, certain forbearance options are made available to customers managed by the recoveries function.
This reflected the growth in the mortgage owner-occupied and 14.1 billion 2014 - 11 billion was portfolio, the stable UK economy and underlying asset buy-to-let.
Of the total portfolio approximately 26 billion quality.
related to properties in the south east of England, while 20 The flow of new forbearance was 273 million in the second billion related to properties in Greater London.
half of 2015 compared with 367.5 million in the second half Gross new mortgage lending amounted to 22.7 billion in of 2014.
The value of mortgages subject to forbearance has 2015.
Lending to owner-occupiers during this period was decreased by 16.8% since the previous year end to 3.6 18.9 billion 2014 - 15.5 billion and had an average LTV billion equivalent to 3.5% of the total mortgage book as a by weighted value of 71% 2014 - 72%.
Buy-to-let lending result of improved market conditions and methodology was 3.8 billion 2014 - 2.9 billion with an average LTV by changes.
The majority 93% of UK PBB forbearance is permanent in Based on the Halifax House Price Index at September 2015, nature term extensions, capitalisation of arrears, historic the portfolio average indexed LTV by volume was 49% conversions to interest only.
Temporary forbearance 2014 - 51% and 56% by weighted value of debt comprises payment concessions such as reduced or outstanding 2014 - 58%.
This excludes 2 billion of deferred payments with such arrangements typically agreed mortgages granted by Ulster Bank Northern Ireland which for a period of three to six months.
are indexed against the house price index published by the The impairment charge for mortgage loans remained low at Office of National Statistics.
2.8 million in 2015 reflecting continuing house price Of the total mortgage portfolio, approximately 60% 63 increases and is stable when compared to the net release of billion were fixed interest rate products of varying time impairment provision of 29.5 million in 2014. durations with 2% 2 billion a combination of fixed and A summary of the maturity profile for bullet principal variable rates and the remainder variable rate.
repayment interest only mortgages excluding mixed Approximately 15% 13 billion of owner-occupied repayment mortgages is set out below: mortgages were on interest-only terms with a bullet repayment and 6% 5 billion were on a combination of interest-only and capital and interest.
The remainder were capital and interest.
65% 9 billion of the buy-to-let mortgages were on interest-only terms and 3% 0.4 billion on a combination of interest only and capital and interest.
The table below shows interest only mortgage portfolios excluding mixed repayment mortgages by type and by contractual year of maturity.
2 Includes 1.5 billion 2014 - 1.6 billion of repayment mortgages that have been granted interest only concessions forbearance.
unaudited 207 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Ulster Bank RoI Overview The number of customers approaching Ulster Bank RoI for Ulster Bank RoIs residential mortgage portfolio totalled the first time in respect of forbearance assistance declined 13.8 billion at 31 December 2015.
Excluding the impact of through 2015. exchange rate movements, the portfolio decreased by 4.4% A total of 59% 2.1 billion of forborne loans were subject to from 31 December 2014 as a result of amortisation - a a long term arrangement capitalisations, term extensions, portion of which related to the variable rate mortgage economic concessions at 31 December 2015 2014 - 51%, portfolio and the sale of a 0.3 billion buy-to-let mortgage 2.0 billion.
Short term forbearance comprises payment portfolio.
The volume of new business has increased concessions, amortising payments of outstanding balances, reflecting continuing market demand.
payment holidays and temporary interest only Gross new mortgage lending amounted to 522 million in arrangements.
Lending to owner-occupiers during this period was The impairment release was driven by a decrease in 511 million 2014 - 392 million and had an average LTV defaulted assets leading to reduced loss expectations.
Buy-to-let lending Ulster Bank RoI stopped offering interest only loans as a was 10 million 2014 - 10 million with an average LTV by standard mortgage offering for new lending in the Republic weighted value of 66% 2014 - 73%.
Interest only mortgages are now granted The interest-rate product mix was approximately 87% 12.0 only to customers in need of forbearance.
A summary of the billion of the mortgage portfolio on variable-rate products maturity profile for bullet principal repayment interest only and 13% 1.7 billion on fixed rate.
mortgages excluding mixed repayment mortgages is set The portfolio average indexed LTV decreased from 93% at out below: 31 December 2014 to 83% at 31 December 2015 as a result of improved market conditions and the sale of a buy-to-let mortgage portfolio.
At 31 December 2015, 26% of total mortgage assets 3.5 billion were subject to a forbearance arrangement, a decrease of 9% 0.3 billion from 31 December 2014.
Excluding the impact of exchange rate movements, the value of mortgage assets subject to a forbearance arrangement has decreased by 131 million 3.3%.
2 Includes 0.1 billion 2014 - 0.3 billion of repayment mortgages that have been granted interest only concessions forbearance.
3 Maturity date relates to the expiry of the interest only period.
unaudited 208 Business review Capital and risk management Private Banking Overview The majority of the Private Banking personal lending A total of 85% 54 million of forbearance loans were portfolio relates to mortgage lending.
The portfolio increased subject to a long term arrangement capitalisations, term by 3% during 2015. extensions, economic concessions at 31 December 2015 Gross new mortgage lending amounted to 2.4 billion in 2014 - 65% or 32.8 million.
Lending to owner-occupiers during this period was comprises payment concessions, amortising payments of 2.2 billion 2014 - 2.4 billion with an average LTV by outstanding balances, payment holidays and temporary weighted value of 54% 2014 - 57%.
Buy-to-let lending was interest only arrangements.
0.2 billion 2014 - 0.2 billion with an average LTV by Private Banking offers interest-only mortgages to high net weighted value of 64% 2014 - 59%.
worth customers, with over a third of the book typically being The number of customers with mortgages in forbearance at refinanced replaced per annum.
A summary of the maturity the end of 2015 increased from 43 to 59 compared to the profile for bullet principal repayment interest only mortgages end of 2014.
In value terms, the exposure increased from excluding mixed repayment mortgages is set out below.
RBS International Overview A total of 12 million of forborne loans were subject to a The majority 98% of RBSIs personal lending is long-term arrangement term extensions at 31 December mortgage lending.
The mortgage portfolio increased by 2015 2014 - 13 million.
Short term forbearance 3% to 2.5 billion.
comprises covenant breaches, payment suspensions and Gross new mortgage lending amounted to 0.2 billion in reduced payments.
Lending to owner-occupiers during this period was RBSI offers interest only mortgages for buy-to-let.
A 0.2 billion 2014 - 0.2 billion and had an average LTV summary of the maturity profile for bullet principal by weighted value of 66% 2014 - 66%.
Buy-to-let repayment interest only mortgages excluding mixed lending was 0.1 billion 2014 - 0.1 billion with an repayment mortgages is set out below: average LTV by weighted value of 59% 2014 - 60%.
The number of customers granted forbearance in 2015 decreased by 10%.
unaudited 209 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Williams & Glyn The arrears rate fell to 1.1% at 31 December 2015 2014 - Overview 1.3%.
This reflected improvements in the UK economy and The retail mortgage portfolio increased by 5.4% to 10.5 underlying asset quality.
billion, of which 9.3 billion 2014 - 9.2 billion was owneroccupied and 1.2 billion 2014 - 0.8 billion was buy-to-let.
The flow of new forbearance was 59.4 million in 2015 compared to 82.5 million in 2014.
The value of mortgages Gross new mortgage lending amounted to 1.7 billion in 2015. subject to forbearance decreased by 5% in 2015 to 0.52 Lending to owner-occupiers during this period was 1.4 billion billion equivalent to 5% of the total mortgage portfolio as a 2014 - 1.3 billion and had an average LTV by weighted result of improved market conditions and methodology value of 70% 2014 - 71%.
Buy-to-let lending was 0.3 billion changes.
2014 - 0.2 billion with an average LTV by weighted value of 64% 2014 - 64%.
There was a reduction of impairment provision balances for personal mortgages in 2015 to 25.6 million compared with Fixed interest rate products of varying time durations 35.6 million in 2014.
The provision release resulted from accounted for approximately 55% 5.7 billion of the mortgage lower LGDs and a decrease in forborne mortgages.
portfolio with 7% 0.8 billion a combination of fixed and variable rates and the remainder 4 billion variable rate.
2 Includes 0.2 billion 2014 - 0.2 billion of repayment mortgages that have been granted interest only concessions forbearance.
unaudited 210 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk assets Balance sheet to CRA bridge The table below provides a bridge between the balance sheet and the related components of credit risk assets CRA.
Within Not within Netting Methodology Balance the scope of the scope Credit and Disposal differences and sheet market risk 1 of CRA 2 adjustments 3 collateral 4 groups 5 reclassifications 6 CRA 2015 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 79.4 4.1 0.5 75.8 Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 39.8 39.8 Loans and advances 324.7 0.3 7.1 28.3 2.4 10.9 294.7 Debt securities 82.1 35.7 47.1 0.2 0.5 Equity shares 1.4 0.7 0.8 0.1 Settlement balances 4.1 4.1 Derivatives 262.5 0.8 214.8 9.1 57.6 Other assets 7 21.4 17.8 3.4 0.2 Total assets 815.4 40.8 109.6 8.2 243.1 1.8 428.3 Contingent obligations 17.1 445.4 2014 Cash and balances at central banks 74.9 3.8 0.6 71.7 Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 64.7 64.7 Loans and advances 357.3 18.0 33.4 62.2 10.3 393.8 Debt securities 86.6 49.3 52.6 15.3 Equity shares 5.6 4.9 1.3 0.6 Settlement balances 4.7 4.7 Derivatives 353.6 1.4 295.3 0.4 8.2 68.3 Other assets 7 103.6 18.7 79.1 3.5 2.3 Total assets 1,051.0 58.9 141.1 19.4 328.7 5.6 536.1 Contingent obligations 26.0 Citizens 64.2 497.9 Restated - refer to page 267 for further details.
Notes: 1 The exposures in regulatory trading book businesses are subject to market risk and are hence excluded from CRA.
Refer to Market risk on page 231.
2 Includes cash in ATMs and branches, reverse repurchase agreements, securities and other assets refer to note below.
3 Includes impairment loss provisions related to loans and advances and credit valuation adjustment on derivatives.
4 Comprises: - Loans and advances: cash collateral pledged with counterparties in relation to net derivative liability positions.
- Derivatives: impact of master netting arrangements.
5 Amounts reclassified to balance sheet lines.
6 Primarily includes: - Loans and advances: cash management pooling arrangements not allowed under IFRS.
- Derivatives: differences between netting arrangements and regulatory model sets and balances with central counterparties after netting but before variation margin presented net on the balance sheet.
7 Includes intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, deferred tax, prepayments and accrued income and assets of disposal groups.
unaudited 211 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Italy - exposure fell by 1.6 billion to 2.6 billion.
Country risk This was the result of the maturity of a few large derivatives Risk measurement transactions with banks, and of reductions in corporate In this section, country exposure includes wholesale and retail lending.
net on-balance sheet exposure drawn amounts under lending Spain - exposure decreased by 1.1 billion to 2.1 facilities, net of provisions, mark-to-market derivatives positions billion.
This largely reflected reductions in corporate lending and issuer-risk debt securities positions in the banking book and mostly to the commercial real estate, construction and land trading book together with off-balance sheet exposure transport sectors.
contingent obligations and undrawn commitments.
Portugal - exposure decreased by 0.1 billion to 0.6 billion, due largely to decreases in derivatives exposure Basis of preparation to banks and corporate clients.
The tables in this section show RBSs exposure at 31 December Greece - net balance sheet exposure decreased to 2015 and 2014.
Exposures are reported by country of operation 0.1 billion from 0.4 billion, mostly as a result of sales of of the obligor, except exposures to governments and individuals, derivatives positions.
The remaining exposure was mostly which are shown by country of residence.
lending and collateralised derivatives exposure to corporates, including subsidiaries of international clients.
The country of operation is the counterpartys country of main Germany - net balance sheet exposure increased by 5.7 operations, taking account of branches and subsidiaries.
This was the net result of an increase of 14.0 billion in cash deposits with the central bank, driven Countries shown are those which had ratings of A or below from by Treasurys global liquidity management, against Standard and Poors, Moodys or Fitch at 31 December 2015, reductions in other areas, notably in net HFT bonds.
and in which RBSs net balance sheet exposure to counterparties Ireland - exposure fell by 3.0 billion or 13% to 19.6 billion, operating or individuals residing in them exceeded 1 billion.
with exposure to corporates and households mostly Selected eurozone countries are also included.
mortgage lending decreasing by 1.9 billion and 1.4 billion respectively.
This largely reflected currency movements and The exposures are stated before taking into account risk portfolio sales.
The latter also drove a 5.6 billion reduction mitigants such as guarantees, insurance or collateral with the in lending provisions and a 1.0 billion increase in Ulster exception of reverse repos which may have been put in place to Bank RoIs cash deposits with the central bank.
reduce or eliminate exposure to country risk events.
The tables France - net balance sheet exposure fell by 4.2 billion to separately show CDS positions, as RBS may be either a net 11.9 billion, with reductions mainly in net HFT bonds and buyer or a net seller of protection.
Available-for-sale AFS bonds rose by 0.5 billion, as part of the banks liquidity management.
Exposures relating to ocean-going vessels are not included as Netherlands - net balance sheet exposure decreased by they cannot be meaningfully assigned to specific countries from a 4.4 billion, the result of reductions in lending, derivatives, country risk perspective.
AFS bonds, and in net HFT exposure.
Japan - net HFT bonds exposure increased by 4.1 billion to Overview 7.2 billion, driven by collateral trading in London.
This The comments below relate to changes in country exposures in increase in holdings reflects reduced access to local repo 2015 unless indicated otherwise.
markets following RBSs decision to exit its Japanese onshore business.
Derivatives exposure, largely to banks, Net balance sheet and off-balance sheet exposure to most decreased by 0.6 billion.
RBS continued to maintain India - net balance sheet exposure fell by 0.4 billion to 1.6 a cautious stance and implemented its strategy to become a billion, with reductions mainly in corporate lending, reflecting more UK-centred bank with an international focus on RBSs UK-centred strategy.
In addition, many clients continued to China - net balance sheet exposure decreased by 2.5 reduce debt levels.
The euro depreciated against sterling by billion to 1.1 billion, with reductions mostly in corporate 5.7% while the US dollar appreciated by 5.3%.
lending, driven by RBSs strategy.
The portfolio is focused Total eurozone net balance sheet exposure decreased by on the largest banks.
Stress tests indicated that the impact 10.5 billion or 11%, to 87.1 billion.
The depreciation of the of an economic downturn on credit losses would be limited.
euro played a significant role in the reduction.
Russia - net balance sheet exposure decreased by 1.4 Eurozone periphery: Ireland is no longer considered part of billion to 0.4 billion, partly through loan sales in the second this group because of its improved economic conditions.
The remaining exposure was below the 1 The remaining exposure to the eurozone periphery is billion threshold for inclusion in the table.
It was on run-off, relatively small.
and consisted mainly of lending to banks and with risks largely mitigated.
2 Net lending-Comprises loans and advances net of provisions and includes cash balances.
3 Debt securities-includes held-for-trading HFT, designated as fair value through profit or loss DFV, available for-for-sale AFS and loans and receivables LAR.
HFT debt securities, aggregated with DFV securities, are presented as long positions net of short positions.
4 Derivatives netComprise the mark-to-market mtm value of such contracts after the effect of legally enforceable netting agreements in line with regulatory capital models, but before the effect of collateral.
5 Securities financing transactions SFT net - Comprise the mtm value of the cash and securities that are due to RBS at a future date after the effect of collateral intrinsic to the transaction and legally enforceable netting agreements.
Counterparty netting is applied in line with regulatory capital approach.
Additional collateral called to offset mtm positions variation margin is not included.
6 Off-balance sheet-Comprises letters of credit, guarantees, other contingent obligations and legally committed undrawn facilities.
7 Total exposure-Comprises net balance sheet exposure and off-balance sheet exposure, as defined above.
8 Credit default swaps CDSsUnder a CDS contract, the credit risk on the reference entity is transferred from the buyer to the seller.
Fair value or mtm value represents the balance sheet carrying value of the resulting exposure.
The mtm value of CDSs is included in derivatives against the counterparty of the trade, as opposed to the reference entity.
The notional is the par value of the credit protection bought or sold and is included against the reference entity of the CDS contract.
The column CDS notional less fair value represents the net effect on exposure should the CDS contracts be triggered by a credit event, assuming a zero recovery rate on the reference exposure.
This net effect would be the increase in exposure arising from sold positions netted against the decrease arising from bought positions.
For a sold position, the change in exposure equals the notional less the fair value amount: this represents the amount RBS would owe to its CDS counterparties if the reference entity defaulted.
Positive recovery rates would tend to reduce the gross components increases and decreases of those numbers.
10 Other eurozone - Austria, Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Malta, Slovakia and Slovenia.
213 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis Credit risk assets analysed on pages 188 to 211 are reported internally to senior risk management.
However, they exclude certain exposures, primarily securities and reverse repurchase agreements and take account of legal netting agreements, that provide a right of legal set-off but do not meet the offset criteria in IFRS.
The tables that follow are therefore provided to supplement disclosures of credit risk assets and related information to reconcile to the balance sheet.
All the disclosures in this section are audited.
Whilst totals in tables within this section include balances relating to Citizens, detailed analysis and commentary exclude Citizens to facilitate like-for-like comparison with 2015.
Financial assets Exposure summary and credit mitigation The following table analyses financial asset exposures, both gross and net of offset arrangements, as well as credit mitigation and enhancement.
2 The carrying value on the balance sheet represents the exposure to credit risk by class of financial instrument.
3 The amount by which credit risk exposure is reduced through arrangements, such as master netting agreements and cash management pooling, which give RBS a legal right to set off the financial asset against a financial liability due to the same counterparty.
4 RBS holds collateral in respect of individual loans and advances to banks and customers.
This collateral includes mortgages over property both personal and commercial : charges over business assets such as plant, inventories and trade debtors: and guarantees of lending from parties other than the borrower.
RBS obtains collateral in the form of securities in reverse repurchase agreements.
Cash and securities are received as collateral in respect of derivative transactions.
5 Includes cash collateral pledged by counterparties based on daily mark-to-market movements of net derivative positions with the counterparty.
6 Represent the fair value of securities received from counterparties, mainly relating to reverse repo transactions as part of netting arrangements.
7 Property valuations are capped at the loan value and reflect the application of haircuts in line with regulatory rules to indexed valuations.
Commercial collateral includes ships and plant and equipment collateral.
8 Comprises credit derivatives bought protection and guarantees against exposures.
Key points The 238 billion net exposure comprises approximately one Net exposure fell by 37.1 billion or 14% principally third each of cash and balances at central banks, unsecured reflecting lower funded assets as both CIB and Capital commercial and personal bank lending, and debt securities.
Resolution implemented strategic balance sheet reductions Approximately 82% 67.7 billion of debt securities are through disposals and wind-down.
issued by central or local governments.
214 Business review Capital and risk management Sector concentration The following table analyses financial assets by industry sector.
For geographic concentrations refer to: Lending: Loans and related credit metrics: Debt securities: Issuer and IFRS measurement and Credit risk - Country risk: Equity shares: and Derivatives: Summary and uncollateralised exposures.
215 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Asset quality Internal asset Probability of Indicative The asset quality analysis presented below is based on internal quality band default range S&P rating asset quality ratings which have ranges for the probability of AQ1 0% - 0.034% AAA to AA default.
Customers are assigned credit grades, based on various AQ2 0.034% - 0.048% AAcredit grading models that reflect the key drivers of default for the AQ3 0.048% - 0.095% A to A customer type.
All credit grades across RBS map to both an AQ4 0.095% - 0.381% BBB - to BBBasset quality scale, used for external financial reporting, and a AQ5 0.381% - 1.076% BB to BB master grading scale for wholesale exposures used for internal AQ6 1.076% - 2.153% BBto B management reporting across portfolios.
Debt securities are AQ7 2.153% - 6.089% B to B analysed by external ratings and are therefore excluded from the AQ8 6.089% - 17.222% Bto CCC following table and are set out on pages 224 to 226.
AQ9 17.222% - 100% CCC to C AQ10 100% D The table that follows details the relationship between internal asset quality AQ bands and external ratings published by The mapping to the S&P ratings is used by RBS as one of Standard & Poors S&P, for illustrative purposes only.
This several benchmarks for its wholesale portfolios, depending on relationship is established by observing S&Ps default study customer type and the purpose of the benchmark.
The mapping statistics, notably the one year default rates for each S&P rating is based on all issuer types rated by S&P.
It should therefore be grade.
A degree of judgement is required to relate the probability considered illustrative and does not, for instance, indicate that of default ranges associated with the master grading scale to exposures reported against S&P ratings either have been or these default rates given that, for example, the S&P published would be assigned those ratings if assessed by S&P.
In addition, default rates do not increase uniformly by grade and the historical the relationship is not relevant for retail portfolios, smaller default rate is nil for the highest rating categories.
corporate exposures or specialist corporate segments given that S&P does not typically assign ratings to such entities.
Overall credit quality has remained broadly stable Japan, in line with balance sheet management and exit with about 77% excluding cash and central bank balances strategies.
being investment grade or higher, supported by benign Derivatives decreased by 91.1 billion with reductions economic and credit conditions.
across all bands except AQ4 where an increase of 7.9 Customer loans decreased by 22.5 billion 7% to 290.8 billion is the result of existing counterparties being billion, across most AQ bands, with investment grade loans downgraded due to a decrease in MTM values and new at 59% compared with 55% in 2014.
The increase of 4.2 counterparties coming on at lower grades.
billion in AQ3 reflected the improved asset quality in UK Past due loans increased by 0.7 billion, primarily within CIB PBBs book reflecting market conditions along with growth in and Capital Resolution.
Bank loans decreased by 3.6 billion across most AQ bands.
The small increase in AQ3 reflects improvements in asset quality within Ulster Bank RoI.
217 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Loans, REIL and impairment provisions Risk elements in lending REIL comprises impaired loans and accruing loans past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest.
Impaired loans are all loans including loans subject to forbearance for which an impairment provision has been established: for collectively assessed loans, impairment loss provisions are not allocated to individual loans and the entire portfolio is included in impaired loans.
Accruing loans past due 90 days or more comprise loans past due 90 days where no impairment loss is expected.
Loans and related credit metrics The tables below analyse gross loans and advances excluding reverse repos and related credit metrics by reportable segment.
Strong Loans to banks decreased by 4.1 billion primarily in Capital new lending volumes were offset by high levels of customer Resolution due to wind-downs in the EMEA and APAC repayments, the sale of a 0.3 billion buy-to-let mortgage regions 1.7 billion as well as lower derivative collateral portfolio and exchange rate movements.
Ulster Banks RoIs increased bank loans portfolio reduced by 1.4 billion to 9.2 billion, making up reflected higher cash deposits with central banks.
two thirds of the mortgage book, and commercial real estate Customer loans declined by 37.5 billion or 11% to 315.1 lending fell by 0.4 billion.
billion reflecting the run-down strategy being partially offset CIB: lending fell by 10.4 billion, 5.0 billion reflecting the by core loan book.
transfers to Commercial Banking and the rest primarily UK PBB: mortgage growth of 9.3 billion was the principal derivative collateral reduction.
driver of the 7.4 billion gross lending increase in 2015 and Capital Resolution lending fell by 38.1 billion and included 13.1 billion increase in the last two years reflecting strategy loan sales in US 3.1 billion, APAC 2.2 billion and EMEA and investment.
Unsecured balances continued to decline 0.5 billion relating to sale of Russian portfolio.
Reductions gradually, albeit at a much slower rate.
in GTS and Shipping of 6.8 billion following customer windCommercial Banking: of the 6.3 billion loan increase, 5.0 downs as well as 10.6 billion of maturities and repayments billion related to UK and Western Europe loans transferred across the loan portfolio in all regions also contributed to the from CIB and 1.4 billion loan growth that despite 2.2 significant reduction.
billion of strategic write-off and disposals.
Risk elements in lending REIL declined by 14.7 billion to 12.2 billion, with REIL as a percentage of gross loans falling from 7.6% to 3.9%.
The reduction was primarily driven by the disposals in RCR within Capital Resolution.
218 Business review Capital and risk management Impairment charge and provision The tables below analyse the categories, loan impairment losses releases and provisions by reportable segment.
compared with net impairment releases of 1,364 million in Loan impairment provisions were about 41% of the level at 2014.
Although releases were at lower levels than in 2014, 2014 year end at 7.1 billion and covered REIL by 59% credit quality remained stable with continued increased compared with 65% last year reflecting economic and credit recoveries in certain businesses.
Capital Resolution recorded net releases of 794 million, Provisions were 2.3% of gross loans, significantly lower than compared with 1,321 million, with disposal activity 5.0% last year.
Ulster Bank RoI recorded net impairment Refer to Credit risk - Problem debt management section for releases of 142 million, a reduction from 306 million, as risk management approaches.
economic conditions in Ireland continue to improve whilst UK PBB recorded a release of 6 million compared with a loss of 154 million, due to lower debt flows and increased releases and recoveries.
Net releases were reported also in RBSI and CIB, although at more modest levels.
219 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Sector and geographical concentration The tables below analyse gross loans and advances to banks and customers excluding reverse repos and related credit metrics by sector and geography based on the location of lending office.
Ulster Bank RoI contributes a significant proportion of the European loan exposure.
221 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Impairment REIL and impairments flow statements REIL provisions Citizens Total excluding Citizens Total excluding impairment impairment Citizens 1 REIL 1 REIL 1 Citizens provisions provisions 2015 m m m m m m At beginning of year 26,889 1,330 28,219 17,504 536 18,040 Currency translation and other adjustments 889 29 860 579 17 562 Additions 4,076 174 4,250 Transfers between REIL and potential problem loans 222 222 Transfer to performing book 1,120 1,120 Repayments and disposals 7,613 1,353 8,966 554 554 Amounts written-off 8,964 180 9,144 8,964 180 9,144 Recoveries of amounts previously written-off 175 78 253 Release to the income statement from continuing operations 853 853 Charge to the income statement from discontinued operations 103 103 Unwind of discount 144 144 At end of year 12,157 12,157 7,139 7,139 2014 At beginning of year 38,069 1,323 39,392 24,707 518 25,225 Currency translation and other adjustments 1,125 75 1,050 710 21 689 Additions 6,733 335 7,068 Transfers between REIL and potential problem loans 260 260 Transfer to performing book 1,460 1,460 Repayments and disposals 10,090 103 10,193 6 6 Amounts written-off 4,978 300 5,278 4,978 300 5,278 Recoveries of amounts previously written-off 102 103 205 Release to the income statement from continuing operations 1,364 1,364 Charge to the income statement from discontinued operations 194 194 Unwind of discount 247 247 At end of year 26,889 1,330 28,219 17,504 536 18,040 Risk elements in lending The table below analyses REIL between UK and overseas, based on the location of the lending office.
2015 2014 Impaired loans Accruing past due REIL REIL REIL Impaired Accruing excluding Citizens Total excluding Citizens Total loans past due Citizens 1 REIL 1 REIL 1 Citizens 1 REIL 1 REIL 1 m m m m m m m m - UK 6,095 1,262 11,562 11,562 1,535 1,535 - overseas 4,775 25 13,687 1,330 15,017 105 105 Total REIL 10,870 1,287 25,249 1,330 26,579 1,640 1,640 Notes: 1 REIL are stated without giving effect to any security held that could reduce the eventual loss should it occur or to any provisions marked.
2 For details on impairment methodology refer to Credit risk on page 185 and Accounting policy 15 Impairment of financial assets on page 273.
222 Business review Capital and risk management Past due analysis The table below shows loans and advances to customers that were past due at the balance sheet date but are not considered impaired.
2015 2014 m m Past due 1-29 days 4,150 3,073 Past due 30-59 days 769 785 Past due 60-89 days 530 586 Past due 90 days or more 1,287 1,640 Total excluding Citizens 6,736 6,084 Citizens 2,112 Total 6,736 8,196 Past due analysis by sector Personal 3,437 3,554 Property and construction 1,341 1,186 Financial institution 187 60 Other corporate 1,771 1,284 Total excluding Citizens 6,736 6,084 Citizens 2,112 Total 6,736 8,196 223 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Securities and AFS reserves Debt securities The table below analyses debt securities by issuer and IFRS measurement classifications.
US central and local government includes US federal agencies.
The other financial institutions category includes US government sponsored agencies and securitisation entities, the latter principally relating to asset-backed securities ABS.
Ratings are based on the lowest of Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch.
Assets underlying issuer types, largely offset by an increase in available-forRBS's ABS portfolio were more than 80% of European origin sale securities in Treasurys liquidity portfolio.
compared with 65% a year ago on a like for like basis HFT: Decreases were due to exit of trading businesses, reflecting the exit from the US asset-backed product novation of equities portfolio, balance sheet reduction and business as well as other reductions in Capital Resolution.
225 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Asset-backed securities The table below summarises the ratings of asset-backed securities on the balance sheet.
Repayments made on the underlying mortgages are used to make payments to holders of the mortgage-backed securities MBS.
The risk of the MBS will vary primarily depending on the quality and geographic region in which the underlying mortgage assets are located and the credit enhancement of the securitisation structure.
Several tranches of notes are issued, each secured against the same portfolio of mortgages, but providing differing levels of seniority to match the risk appetite of investors.
The most junior or equity notes will suffer early capital and interest losses experienced by the referenced mortgage collateral, with each more senior note benefiting from the protection provided by the subordinated notes below.
Additional credit enhancements may be provided to the holder of senior MBS notes.
The main categories of mortgages that serve as collateral to RMBS held by RBS are set out below and described in the Glossary on pages 420 to 426.
The US market has more established definitions of differing underlying mortgage quality and these are used as the basis for RBS's RMBS categorisation.
2 Includes US agency and Dutch government guaranteed securities.
3 Comprises HFT 303 million 2014 - 387 million, DFV nil 2014 - nil, AFS 106 million 2014 - 225 million and LAR 37 million 2014 - 28 million.
4 Comprises HFT 46 million 2014 - 100 million, AFS 28 million 2014 - 30 million and LAR 475 million 2014 - 728 million.
226 Business review Capital and risk management Equity shares The table below analyses holdings of equity shares for eurozone countries and other countries with balances of more than 50 million by country, issuer and measurement classification.
The HFT positions are used mainly for economic hedging of debt issuances and equity derivatives.
The AFS balances are individually small holdings in unlisted companies, mainly acquired through debt for equity transactions in Restructuring.
3 HFT short positions of 2 million 2014 - 211 million included nil 2014 - 15 million relating to non-periphery eurozone countries.
227 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Derivatives Summary and net uncollateralised exposures The table below analyses derivatives by type of contract.
The master netting agreements and collateral shown below do not result in a net presentation on the balance sheet under IFRS.
2 Transactions with securitisation vehicles and funds where collateral posting is contingent on RBSs external rating.
3 Predominantly large corporate with whom RBS may have netting arrangements in place, but operational capability does not support collateral posting.
Transactions include foreign exchange hedges and interest rate swaps.
4 Sovereigns and supranational entities with one way collateral agreements in their favour.
228 Business review Capital and risk management Key points Interest rate contracts: the reduction in notional was driven Credit derivatives.
Credit compression cycles and the by continued participation in TriOptima tear up cycles reduction of trading in the US asset-backed products partially offset by trading volume increases movements business were the main drivers for the decrease in the increased volatility.
Fair values also decreased due to notional and fair values.
continued participation in TriOptima tear ups as well as the Equity contract reductions driven by the run down and impact of a significant upward shift in the Euro and UK continued notional of the equities business to clients.
yields, partially offset by foreign exchange re-translation and Net exposure at 31 December 2015 was two thirds of that a the downward shift in US yields.
year ago decreasing by 5.4 billion to 12.6 billion reflecting Exchange rate contracts: decreases in fair values were bank strategy to reduce the scale of the investment bank.
partially offset by the impact of the strengthening of the US dollar against the euro and Japanese yen as the portfolio was materially positioned to receive US dollar and pay euro and Japanese yen at year end 2015.
Valuation reserves When valuing financial instruments in the trading book, adjustments are made to mid-market valuations to cover bid-offer spread, liquidity and credit risk.
The following table shows credit valuation adjustments CVA and other valuation reserves.
CVA represents an estimate of the adjustment to fair value that a market participant would make to incorporate the risk inherent in derivative exposures.
For discussion of CVA methodology, refer to Financial instruments - valuation on page 297.
2015 2014 m m Credit valuation adjustments CVA 774 1,414 Other valuation reserves - bid-offer 304 398 - funding valuation adjustment FVA 752 718 - product and deal specific 660 657 1,716 1,773 Valuation reserves 2,490 3,187 The table below analyses CVA relating to counterparties by rating and sector.
2015 2014 m m Ratings AAA 37 82 AA to AA 66 67 A to AA- 49 78 BBBto A- 293 401 Non-investment grade and unrated 329 786 774 1,414 Counterparty Banks 18 32 Other financial institutions 126 250 Corporate 470 938 Government 160 194 774 1,414 Key points CVA decreased over the period, driven by market Bid-offer reserve decreases were largely driven by risk movements, principally interest rates, reducing net reduction in CIB.
uncollateralised derivative exposures, realised default Other reserves were broadly unchanged, although FVA losses and tear-ups during 2015. increased as a result of market movements during 2015.
229 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Derivatives: settlement basis and central counterparties The table below analyses the derivative notional and fair value by trading and settlement method.
Credit derivative exposures relating to proprietary trading are minimal.
As part of its credit risk strategy to manage credit risk concentrations, RBS buys credit derivative products.
The counterparties from which this protection is bought are subject to standard credit risk analysis.
Eligibility criteria apply: credit protection bought from the same corporate group as the reference entity is not eligible in cases where double default under CRR article 153 3 applies.
A summary of the notional principal amount of credit derivative transactions is detailed in the following table, split between protection bought for portfolio management purposes and that relating to intermediation in the credit derivative markets.
The table below analyses bought and sold protection.
2015 2014 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Bought Sold Bought Sold Bought Sold Bought Sold By type bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Client-led trading residual risk 1 22.0 16.6 0.2 52.1 50.0 0.9 1.3 Credit hedging - banking book 2 0.9 0.1 1.8 0.1 Credit hedging - trading book - rates 15.3 9.5 0.2 0.1 14.1 6.1 0.2 0.3 - credit and mortgage markets 1.3 0.7 0.2 0.1 0.4 0.2 - other 0.4 0.5 39.9 26.8 0.1 0.2 68.9 56.1 1.4 1.6 2015 2014 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value CDS TRS CDS TRS CDS TRS CDS TRS By use bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Credit portfolios - bought protection 0.9 0.1 1.8 0.1 Intermediations - bought protection 36.7 2.3 0.1 66.9 0.2 1.3 - sold protection 26.1 0.7 0.1 55.4 0.8 1.7 63.7 3.0 0.1 124.1 1.0 0.3 2015 2014 Notional Net exposure Notional Of which: bn bn bn Monoline insurers 0.5 0.1 0.1 CDPCs 8.4 15.2 Notes: 1 Residual risk relates to legacy positions in Capital Resolution in 2014.
2 Credit hedging in the banking book principally relates to portfolio management in Capital Resolution.
230 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk Definition Some of these transactions involve trading or clearing financial Market risk is the risk of losses arising from fluctuations in instruments on an exchange, including interest rate swaps, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign currency rates, equity futures and options.
Holders of these instruments provide margin prices, commodity prices and other factors, such as marketon a daily basis with cash or other security at the exchange.
implied volatilities, that may lead to a reduction in earnings, economic value or both.
Other products are not transacted on an exchange.
Of these over-the-counter transactions, those with standard terms may be RBS is exposed to traded market risk through its trading activities cleared through central counterparties, while those that are more and to non-traded market risk as a result of its banking activities.
complex are settled directly with the counterparty and may give In many respects, it manages its traded and non-traded market rise to counterparty credit risk.
For more information on the risk exposures separately, largely in line with the regulatory management of counterparty credit risk, refer to the Credit risk definitions of the trading and non-trading books.
The following disclosures in this section are audited: Non-traded market risk Traded market risk - Internal VaR The majority of RBSs non-traded market risk exposure arises Non-traded market risk: from retail and commercial banking activities in all franchises Interest rate risk VaR: VaR for selected AFS non-trading from assets and liabilities that are not classified as held for portfolios: Structured credit portfolio trading.
Foreign exchange risk Non-traded market risk is largely managed in line with the Overview and key developments following three key categories: interest rate risk: foreign During 2015, RBS continued to align its business with bank exchange risk: and equity risk.
strategy, with an impact on both traded and non-traded market risk.
Overall, this resulted in a further reduction of risk, a notable Interest rate risk driver of which was the exit from a significant part of US assetNon-traded interest rate risk NTIRR arises from the provision to backed product ABP trading in the first half of the year.
customers of a range of banking products that have differing interest rate characteristics.
When aggregated, these products Following the restructuring of the CIB business in Q4 2015, the form portfolios of assets and liabilities with varying degrees of Market Risk function adjusted to the new structure and resensitivity to changes in market interest rates.
Mismatches in calibrated its market risk limits.
these characteristics can give rise to volatility in net interest income as interest rates vary.
Value-at-risk VaR remained volatile, reflecting a number of geopolitical developments and macroeconomic factors, as NTIRR comprises four primary risk factors: repricing risk, yield detailed on page 234. curve risk, basis risk and optionality risk.
For more information, refer to page 243.
The increased market volatility and reduced liquidity were also the key drivers of the back-testing exceptions recorded by the Foreign exchange risk VaR models of RBS plc and NatWest Plc.
For more information, Non-traded foreign exchange risk exposures arise from two main refer to page 234. sources: The completion of the disposal of Citizens during the year further Structural foreign exchange risk - arising from the capital reduced the non-traded market risk exposures arising mainly deployed in foreign subsidiaries, branches and joint from its retail and commercial banking activities and Treasury arrangements and related currency funding where it differs portfolios.
from sterling: and Transactional foreign exchange risk - arising from customer Sources of risk transactions and profits and losses that are in a currency Traded market risk other than the functional currency of the transacting The majority of traded market risk exposure arises in CIB and operation.
Equity risk The primary objective of RBSs trading activities is to provide a Non-traded equity risk is the potential variation in income and range of financing, risk management and investment services to reserves arising from changes in the values of non-trading book its customers - including major corporations and financial equity positions.
Equity exposures may arise through strategic institutions around the world.
From a market risk perspective, the acquisitions, venture capital investments and certain restructuring trading activities are included within the following markets: arrangements.
currencies: emerging markets: rates: asset-backed products: and traded credit.
Pension risk Pension-related activities also give rise to market risk.
Refer to RBS undertakes transactions in financial instruments including debt securities, loans, deposits and equities, as well as securities pages 179 and 180 for more information on risk related to financing and derivatives.
unaudited 231 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued This is complemented by the New Product Risk Assessment Risk governance process, which requires market risk teams to assess and quantify The Market Risk function is responsible for identifying, the market risk associated with all proposed new products.
measuring, monitoring and controlling the market risk arising from both trading and non-trading activities.
Risk monitoring Traded market risk exposures are monitored against limits and For general information on risk governance, refer to the Risk analysed daily by market risk reporting and control functions.
A governance section on page 135. daily report that summarises market risk exposures against the limits set by the Executive Risk Forum is sent to the Chief Risk More specific information on the governance, management and Officer and market risk managers across the function.
measurement of traded and non-traded market risk is provided in The market risk function also prepares daily risk reports that each of the dedicated sections below.
detail exposures against a more granular set of limits and triggers.
Risk appetite RBSs qualitative market risk appetite is set out in policy Limit reporting is supplemented with regulatory capital and stress statements.
testing information as well as ad hoc reporting.
A market risk update is also included in the RBS Risk Its quantitative market risk appetite is expressed in terms of limits Management Monthly Report provided to the Executive for the trading and non-trading activities that are consistent with Committee, the Board Risk Committee and the Board.
update focuses on risk profiles relative to risk appetite: it also covers the key risks and trends, together with a discussion of The Director of Market Risk cascades the limits further down the relevant issues and market topics.
For each trading business, a document known as a dealing authority compiles details of all applicable The reporting and updates facilitate frequent reviews and limits and trading restrictions.
discussions of traded market risk exposures and related issues between the market risk functions, senior management and the The limit framework at RBS level comprises VaR, stressed valuefront office.
at-risk SVaR and sensitivity and stress limits for more details on VaR and SVaR, refer to pages 232 to 237.
The limit Risk measurement framework at trading unit level also comprises additional metrics RBS uses a comprehensive set of methodologies and techniques that are specific to the market risk exposures within its scope.
to measure traded market risk.
These additional metrics aim to control various risk dimensions such as product type, exposure size, aged inventory, currency and tenor.
The limits are reviewed to reflect changes in risk appetite, business plans, portfolio composition and the market and VaR SVaR economic environments.
To ensure approved limits are not breached and that RBS remains within its risk appetite, triggers at RBS and lower levels Market Risk Measurement have been set such that if exposures exceed a specified level, action plans are developed by the front office, Market Risk and Finance.
Stress RNIV For further information on risk appetite, refer to page 140.
Testing Risk controls and assurance For information on risk controls and assurance, refer to page 138.
Traded market risk The main measurement methods are VaR and SVaR.
Risks that Risk assessment are not adequately captured by these model methodologies are Identification and assessment of traded market risk is achieved captured by the risks not in VaR RNIV framework to ensure that through gathering, analysing, monitoring and reporting market RBS is adequately capitalised for market risk.
In addition, stress risk information by business line or at a consolidated level.
testing is used to identify any vulnerabilities and potential losses Industry expertise, continued system developments and in excess of VaR and SVaR.
techniques such as stress testing are also used to enhance the effectiveness of the identification and assessment of all material The key inputs into these measurement methods are market data market risks.
Sensitivities refer to the changes in deal or portfolio value that result from small changes in market unaudited parameters that are subject to the market risk limit framework.
232 Business review Capital and risk management These methods have been designed to capture correlation The following types of risk - which are components of the aboveeffects and allow RBS to form an aggregated view of its traded mentioned factors - are also considered: market risk across risk types, markets and business lines while also taking into account the characteristics of each risk type.
Basis risk - which is the risk that imperfect correlation between two instruments in a hedging strategy creates the Value-at-risk potential for excess gains or losses, thus adding risk to the VaR is a statistical estimate of the potential change in the market position: value of a portfolio and, thus, the impact on the income Prepayment risk - which is the risk associated with early statement over a specified time horizon at a given confidence unscheduled return of principal on a fixed rate security: and level.
Inflation risk - which is the risk of a decrease in the value of instruments as a result of changes in inflation rates and For internal risk management purposes, VaR assumes a time associated volatilities.
horizon of one trading day and a confidence level of 99%.
The VaR model is based on a historical simulation, utilising market VaR limitations data from the previous 500 days on an equally weighted basis.
Historical VaR and RBSs implementation of this risk measurement methodology have a number of known limitations, The internal traded VaR model captures all trading book positions as summarised below, and VaR should be interpreted in light of including those products approved by the regulator.
RBSs approach is to supplement VaR with other risk explanation of the distinction between internal VaR and metrics that address these limitations to ensure appropriate regulatory VaR, refer to page 239. coverage of all material market risks.
The internal VaR model captures the potential impact on the Historical simulation VaR may not provide the best estimate of income statement of the following risk factors: future market movements.
It can only provide a forecast of portfolio losses based on events that occurred in the past.
The Interest rate risk - which arises from the impact of changes RBS model uses the previous 500 days of data: this period in interest rates and volatilities on cash instruments and represents a balance between model responsiveness to recent derivatives.
This includes interest rate tenor basis risk and shocks and risk factor data coverage.
The use of a 99% confidence level VaR statistic does not provide Credit spread risk - which arises from the impact of changes information about losses beyond this level, usually referred to as in the credit spreads of sovereign bonds, corporate bonds, tail risks.
These risks are more appropriately assessed using securitised products and credit derivatives.
measures such as SVaR and stress testing.
Currency risk - which arises from the impact of changes in currency rates and volatilities.
The use of a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the Equity risk - which arises from the impact of changes in profit and loss implications of positions that cannot be liquidated equity prices, volatilities and dividend yields.
This may not fully reflect market risk at Commodity risk - which arises from the impact of changes in times of severe illiquidity in the market when a one-day period commodity prices and volatilities.
may be insufficient to liquidate or hedge positions fully.
Thus, the regulatory VaR that is used for modelled market risk capital uses a ten-day time horizon.
Finally, volatile market conditions, such as those experienced in 2015, can lead to new risk factors emerging.
RBS addresses this issue by using a combination of proxy risk factors and the RNIV framework to supplement the VaR model.
unaudited 233 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued 1-Day 99% traded internal VaR 2015 The table below analyses 1-day 99% internal VaR for RBSs trading portfolios, segregated by type of market risk exposure.
The extent of the diversification benefit depends on the correlation between the assets and risk factors in the portfolio at a particular time.
The diversification factor is the sum of the VaR on individual risk types less the total portfolio VaR.
Key points Total traded VaR decreased in 2015, falling by 24% on a VaR remained volatile, reflecting developments in the period end basis and by 32% on an average basis.
This eurozone periphery, evolving geopolitical risks - notably, reflected the continued alignment of the trading business developing tensions in the Middle East and in Russia and with the banks strategic ambitions.
A notable driver was the Ukraine - and a number of other macroeconomic factors.
decrease in credit spread VaR reflecting the exit from a These included, but were not limited to, the Swiss central significant part of US asset-backed product ABP trading in banks unexpected removal of the Swiss francs peg to the the first half of 2015. euro in January and growing concerns regarding economic slowdown in China.
234 Business review Capital and risk management VaR validation VaR back-testing Quantitative analysis is used to: The main approach employed to assess the ongoing Perform internal back-testing to complement the regulatory performance of the VaR model is back-testing, which counts the back-testing: and number of days when a loss exceeds the corresponding daily Identify risks not adequately captured in VaR, and ensure VaR estimate, measured at a 99% confidence level.
that such risks are addressed via the RNIV framework refer to page 237.
Two types of profit and loss P&L are used in back-testing comparisons: Actual P&L and Hypothetical Hypo P&L.
In addition, as part of ongoing risk management, any market or portfolio weaknesses that could become significant are identified.
The Actual P&L for a particular business day is the firms actual P&L for that day in respect of the trading activities within the The VaR model is also subject to independent reviews carried scope of the firms regulatory VaR model, including any intraday out by Model Risk Management refer to page 138. activities, adjusted by stripping out fees and commissions, brokerage, and additions to and releases from reserves that are As well as being an important market risk measurement and not directly related to market risk.
control tool, the VaR model is also used to determine a significant component of the market risk capital requirement refer to page The Hypo P&L reflects the firms Actual P&L excluding any intra- 237 for more information on calculation of capital requirements.
Therefore, it is subject to not only ongoing internal review and validation but also regulator-prescribed back-testing.
A portfolio is said to produce a back-testing exception when the Actual or Hypo P&L exceeds the VaR level on a given day.
Such an event may be caused by a large market movement or may highlight issues such as missing risk factors or inappropriate time series.
Any such issues identified are analysed and addressed through taking appropriate remediation or development action.
RBS monitors both Actual and Hypo back-testing exceptions.
Back-testing at the legal entity level is performed and reported on 1-day 99% regulatory VaR.
Back-testing at the franchise level and lower-level portfolios is performed on 1-day 99% internal VaR.
The graph below presents 1-day 99% regulatory VaR vs. Actual and Hypo P&L for RBS plc, RBS's largest legal entity by market risk RWAs and positions.
unaudited 235 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued The table below shows regulatory back-testing exceptions for a period of 250 business days for 1-day 99% traded regulatory VaR vs. Actual and Hypo P&L for the legal entities approved by the PRA and fide Nederlandsche Bank.
Back-testing exceptions Model Description Actual Hypo status The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1 4 3 Green National Westminster Bank Plc 9 7 Amber RBS Securities Inc RBSSI 4 3 Green RBS Financial Products Inc Green The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. 3 3 Green Note: 1 A waiver was obtained for the RBS plc exception Actual and Hypo on 22 June 2015 as it was considered to be of a technical nature.
Therefore, this exception is not included in the table above.
Key points The exceptions in RBS plc resulted from losses in the Rates Statistically RBS would expect to see back-testing business due to the rates sell-off and steepening across the exceptions 1% of the time over a period of 250 business euro and sterling curves between May and August.
From a capital requirement perspective, the PRA addition, the exception on 31 December 2015 was due to categorises a firms VaR model as green, amber or red.
A various valuation adjustments carried out at the year end to green model status is consistent with a satisfactory VaR re-mark the prices of certain trades.
model and is achieved for models that have four or fewer NatWest Plc experienced nine exceptions during the period.
An amber model There is normally a back-to-back arrangement with RBS plc.
status suggests potential issues regarding the quality or However, on the dates when the exceptions occurred, the accuracy of the model in question but no definitive residual risk at end of the day resulted in the exceptions due conclusions.
to the business being adversely positioned to market moves.
Most of the back-testing exceptions experienced in the The exceptions in RBSSI resulted from losses in the US period were driven by the higher market volatility and Rates business due to adverse rate movements, losses on reduced liquidity.
the sale of positions from Capital Resolution and the selldown of residual equity positions as part of disposal strategy.
The exceptions in RBS N. V. were mainly due to market moves adversely affecting Chinese renminbi positions.
The table below shows internal back-testing exceptions for a period of 250 days for 1-day 99% traded internal VaR vs. Actual and Hypo P&L for major CIB businesses.
Back-testing exceptions Description Actual Hypo Rates 2 Credit 2 4 Currencies 2 7 Securitised Products 1 1 Key points As noted above, statistically RBS would expect to see backThe exceptions in the Credit business were mainly driven by testing exceptions 1% of the time over the 250-day period.
mark-downs and by tightening of CDS spreads.
The top-level businesses presented in the table above are The exceptions in the Currencies business were mainly due subject to quarterly review by the PRA.
For these to market moves adversely affecting spot and volatility businesses, exceptions were noted during the period and foreign exchange positions.
analysis conducted as explained below.
The exception in the Securitised Products business was due The exceptions in the Rates business were driven by rates to a loan re-mark.
and volatility changes adversely affecting the desk.
236 Business review Capital and risk management The RNIV calculations provide a capital estimate of risks not Stressed VaR SVaR captured in the VaR model and are regularly reported and As with VaR, the SVaR technique produces estimates of the potential change in the market value of a portfolio, over a discussed with senior management and the regulator.
The methodology used in the material RNIV calculations is internally specified time horizon, at a given confidence level.
SVaR is a reviewed by Model Risk.
Where appropriate, risk managers set VaR-based measure using historical data from a one-year period of stressed market conditions.
sensitivity limits to control specific risk factors giving rise to the RNIV.
RNIV calculations form an integral part of RBSs ongoing model and data improvement efforts to capture all market risks in The risk system simulates 99% VaR on the current portfolio for each 250-day period from 1 January 2005 to the current VaR scope for model approval in VaR and SVaR.
date, moving forward one day at a time.
The SVaR is the worst RBS adopts two approaches for the quantification of RNIVs: VaR outcome of the simulated results.
This is in contrast with VaR, which is based on a rolling 500-day A VaR SVaR approach.
Under this approach, two values are calculated: i the VaR RNIV: and ii the SVaR RNIV.
For the purposes of both internal risk management and regulatory SVaR calculation, a time horizon of A stress-scenario approach.
Under this approach, an ten trading days is assumed with a confidence level of 99%.
assessment of ten-day extreme, but plausible, market moves is used in combination with position sensitivities to The internal traded SVaR model captures all trading book give a stress-type loss number - the stress-based RNIV positions, including not only those products, locations and legal value.
entities approved by the regulator.
For each legal entity covered by the PRA VaR approval refer to Regulatory VaR, RNIV amounts are aggregated to obtain the 10-day 99% trading internal SVaR 2015 2014 following three measures: i Total VaR RNIV: ii Total SVaR m m RNIV: and iii Total stress-based RNIV.
In each of these Total RBS 145 194 categories, potential diversification benefits between RNIVs are ignored.
Key point The 25% decline in SVaR was consistent with the decrease The most material categories of RNIV are proxied sensitivities or in VaR and was primarily driven by the exit from US ABP risk factors, missing basis risks and static pricing parameters.
RNIVs that are related specifically to instruments that have level Risks not in VaR RNIVs 3 valuation hierarchy assumptions refer to page 304 are mainly The RNIV approach is used for market risks that are insufficiently included in the following categories: proxied sensitivities or risk captured by the VaR and SVaR model methodologies, for factors, higher-order sensitivity terms, and static pricing example due to a lack of suitable historical data.
framework has been developed to quantify these market risks and to ensure that RBS holds adequate capital.
The need for an RNIV calculation is typically identified in one of the following two circumstances: i as part of the New Product Risk Assessment process, when a risk manager assesses that the associated risk is not adequately captured by the VaR model: or ii as a result of a recommendation made by Model Risk Management or the model validation team when reviewing the VaR model.
unaudited 237 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued The table below analyses capital requirements related to RNIVs.
2015 2014 m m Risks not in VaR 39 57 Risks not in SVaR 66 79 Stress-based RNIV 116 183 221 319 Key point Vulnerability-based stress testing begins with the analysis of a The total RNIV charge fell by 31% year on year, primarily in portfolio and expresses the key vulnerabilities of the portfolio in stress-based RNIV reflecting ongoing improvements in the terms of plausible, so-called vulnerability scenarios under which capture of risks in the RNIV framework.
the portfolio would suffer material losses.
These scenarios can be historical, macroeconomic or forward-looking hypothetical.
Stress testing Vulnerability-based stress testing is used for internal RBS undertakes daily market risk stress testing to identify management information and is not subject to limits.
However, vulnerabilities and potential losses in excess of or not captured in relevant scenarios are reported to senior management.
The calculated stresses measure the impact of changes in risk factors on the fair values of the trading and available-for-sale Economic capital portfolios.
The market risk economic capital framework uses models to calculate the market and default risk in the trading book which RBS conducts historical, macroeconomic and vulnerability-based are aligned with other models that are used for limit setting and stress testing.
The results are annualised to be consistent with the other economic capital models to permit Scenario-based sensitivity analysis measures the sensitivity of consolidation of all risk types as part of the RBS-wide economic the current portfolio to defined movements in market risk factors.
These risk factor movements and the resulting valuation changes are typically smaller than those considered in other stress tests.
Market risk regulatory capital Regulatory treatment Historical stress testing is a measure that is used for internal The market risks subject to capital requirements under Pillar 1 management.
Using the historical simulation framework used for are primarily interest rate, credit spread and equity risks in the VaR, the current portfolio is stressed using historical data since 1 trading book and foreign exchange and commodity risks in both January 2005.
The methodology simulates the impact of the 99.9 the trading and non-trading books.
Interest rate and equity risks percentile loss that would be incurred by historical risk factor are split between general and specific risks.
General risks movements over the period, assuming variable holding periods represent market risks due to a move in a market as a whole, specific to the risk factors and the businesses.
such as a main index or yield curve, while specific risks represent market risks arising from events particular to an underlying Historical stress tests form part of the market risk limit framework issuer.
and their results are reported daily to senior management RBS uses two broad methodologies to calculate its market risk Macroeconomic stress tests are carried out periodically as part of capital charge: i the non-modelled approach, whereby regulatorthe firm-wide, cross-risk capital planning process.
The scenario prescribed rules are applied, and ii the internal model approach, narratives are translated into risk factor shocks using historical where, subject to regulatory approval, a model such as VaR is events and insights by economists, risk managers and the front used to calculate the capital charge.
Market risk stress results are combined with those for other risks into the capital plan that is presented to the Board.
The internal model approach is used to calculate about 78% The cross-risk capital planning process is conducted twice a 2014 - 76% of RBSs market risk capital charge.
year, in April May and October November, with a planning horizon of five years.
The scenario narratives cover both VaR and SVaR capture general and specific risks but not risks regulatory scenarios and macroeconomic scenarios identified by arising from the impact of defaults and rating changes associated the firm.
with traded credit products and their derivatives.
For these risks, two product-dependent approaches are used: The incremental risk charge IRC model captures risks arising from rating migration and default events for the more liquid traded credit instruments and their derivatives.
Securitisation and re-securitisation risks in the trading book are treated with the non-trading book non-modelled capitalisation approach.
unaudited 238 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk RWAs by legal entity and by regulatory approach While internal VaR provides a measure of the economic risk, Market risk RWAs of 21 billion and minimum capital requirement regulatory VaR is one of the measures of regulatory capital of 1.7 billion are composed as presented below.
The calculation of regulatory VaR differs from that of the internal VaR as it takes into account only regulator-approved products, 10% locations and legal entities and it is based on a ten-day, rather than a one-day, holding period for market risk capital calculations.
The PRA approval covers general market risk in interest rate, foreign exchange, equity and commodity products and specific market risk in interest rate and equity products.
Regulatory SVaR RBSs SVaR model has also been approved by the PRA for use RBS plc 90% in the capital requirement calculation.
The distinction between RBS NV 2% regulatory SVaR and internal SVaR is the same as that between Other 1% regulatory VaR and internal VaR.
NatWest Plc 3% RBS Securities Inc 4% Risks not in VaR As discussed earlier, RBS has an established RNIV framework that ensures that the risks not captured in VaR are adequately covered by its capital.
Incremental risk charge IRC The IRC model quantifies the impact of rating migration and default events on the market value of instruments with embedded credit risk in particular, bonds and credit default swaps that are held in the trading book.
It further captures basis risk between different instruments, maturities and reference entities.
Following the internal ratings-based approach for credit risk, the IRC is calculated over a one-year capital horizon with a 99.9% confidence level.
The dependency of positions is modelled using a single-factor Gaussian copula.
The IRC is mainly driven by three-month credit rating transition, default and correlation parameters.
The portfolio impact of correlated defaults and rating changes is assessed by observing changes in the market value of positions using stressed recovery rates and modelled credit spread changes.
Revaluation matrices are used to capture any non-linear behaviour.
Regulatory VaR RBSs VaR model has been approved by the PRA to calculate its regulatory market risk capital requirement for the trading book for those legal entities under its jurisdiction.
These legal entities are RBS plc, NatWest Plc, RBS Securities Inc and RBS Financial Products Inc. unaudited 239 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued Market risk capital Minimum capital requirements The following table analyses RBSs total market risk minimum capital requirement at 31 December 2015, calculated in accordance with the Capital Requirements Regulation CRR : this represents 8% of the corresponding RWA amount, 21 billion.
It comprises a number of regulatory capital requirements split into two categories: i the non-modelled position risk requirement PRR of 377 million, which has several components: and ii the Pillar 1 model-based PRR of 1.3 billion, which comprises several modelled charges.
2015 2014 m m Interest rate position risk requirement 85 116 Equity position risk requirement 1 1 Option position risk requirement 6 7 Commodity position risk requirement 2 Foreign currency position risk requirement 155 63 Specific interest rate risk of securitisation positions 130 270 Total non-modelled approach 377 459 Pillar 1 model based position risk requirement 1,323 1,458 Total market risk minimum capital requirement 1,700 1,917 The following table analyses the principal contributors to the Pillar 1 model-based PRR presented in the previous table.
2015 2014 Average Maximum Minimum Period end Period end m m m m m Value-at-risk 359 400 319 377 329 Stressed VaR 512 556 477 477 511 Incremental risk charge 276 348 248 248 299 Risks not in VaR 261 319 221 221 319 1,323 1,458 Key points The IRC fell by 17%, driven by a reduction in investment RBSs total market risk minimum capital requirement fell in grade corporate bond inventory for the US business, in line 2015, driven by decreases in both the non-modelled with risk reduction strategy.
In addition, the European component and the overall Pillar 1 model-based component.
market-making business slightly reduced its shorter-dated The decrease in the non-modelled PRR was largely driven exposure to the eurozone periphery.
The IRC figures by a decline in trading book securitisations as a result of presented in the table above differ from those in the table on asset disposals, in line with the wind-down of the US ABP the following page for the reasons explained in the note to business.
This was partially offset by an increase in the that table.
The average liquidity horizon by position at the foreign currency PRR, reflecting the sale of Citizens, which year end was 3.2 months 2014 - 3.3 months.
led to an increase in the US dollar capital position.
The decline in the RNIV charge is explained on page 238.
Overall, the Pillar 1 model-based PRR decreased by 9% The SVaR charge fell by 7%, reflecting risk reduction in RBS during 2015, primarily driven by reductions in the IRC and NV, in line with strategy, and risk reduction in the US Rates the RNIV charge, offset partly by an increase in the VaR and ABP businesses.
The VaR charge increased by 15%, driven by risk increases across the Rates business, primarily related to the European and US swap portfolios and the US options business.
unaudited 240 Business review Capital and risk management IRC by rating and product category The following table analyses the IRC by rating and product.
2 The figures presented are based on the spot IRC charge at 31 December 2015 and will therefore not agree with the IRC position risk requirement, as this is based on the 60-day average.
The figures presented above are in capital terms.
3 The IRC figures by product category presented above are based on an internal allocation and do not constitute standalone position risk requirements.
Key point Spot IRC capital fell 62.4 million or 25% year on year, for the same reasons noted on the previous page for the IRC PRR.
Securitisation positions in the trading book The following table shows the capital requirement for trading book securitisation positions by rating.
Ratings 1 Non Noninvestment modelled AAA AA A BBB grade Unrated Total 1,2 PRR 3 2015 m m m m m m m % Trading book securitisation charge 1.1 0.2 0.6 4.3 81.4 42.8 130.4 0.7 2014 Trading book securitisation charge 3.9 1.0 4.1 22.1 148.9 90.3 270.3 10.0 Notes: 1 Based on S&P ratings.
2 Includes both long and short positions.
3 Percentage of total non-modelled position risk requirement.
4 There were no capital deductions in 2014 or 2015. unaudited 241 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued Risk models Valuation and independent price verification All model changes are approved through model governance Traders are responsible for marking-to-market their trading book committees at franchise level.
Changes to existing models that positions daily, ensuring that assets and liabilities in the trading have an impact on VaR exceeding 5% at legal entity level or 15% book are measured at their fair value.
Any profits or losses on the at a major business level are also subject to MRM review and revaluation of positions are recognised daily.
sign-off as are all model changes that require regulator approval before implementation.
Product controllers are responsible for ensuring that independent price verification processes are in place covering all trading book MRMs independent oversight provides additional assurance that positions held by their business.
Independent price verification RBS holds appropriate capital for the market risk to which it is and trader supervision are the key controls over front office exposed.
In addition to MRMs independent oversight, the model testing Model validation team monitors the model performance for market risk through RBS uses a variety of models to manage and measure market back-testing, which is discussed in more detail on page 235, and risk.
These include pricing models used for valuation of other processes.
positions and risk models for risk measurement and capital calculation purposes.
They are developed in both RBS-level and Non-traded market risk lower-level functions and are subject to independent review and Risk governance sign-off.
RBS manages the three key categories of non-traded market risk separately.
The categories are: non-traded interest rate risk: nonFor general information on the independent model validation traded foreign exchange risk: and non-traded equity risk.
carried out by Model Risk Management MRM, which applies also to market risk models including VaR, refer to page 138.
The Chief Risk Officer delegates responsibility for day-to-day Additional details relating to pricing and market risk models are control of non-traded market risk to the Director of Market Risk.
Non-traded market risk positions are reported to the ALCo and Pricing models the Board, monthly in the case of interest rate risk and quarterly Pricing models are developed by a dedicated front office in the case of foreign exchange and equity risk.
quantitative team, in conjunction with the trading desk.
They are used for the valuation of positions for which prices are not directly The Executive Risk Forum ERF approves the non-traded observable and for the risk management of the portfolio.
The non-traded market risk policy statement sets out the governance and risk management Any pricing models that are used as the basis for valuing books framework through effective identification, measurement, and records are subject to approval and oversight by asset-level reporting, mitigation, monitoring and control.
The key models used for managing non-traded market risk These committees comprise representatives of the major benefit from the validation process described on this page.
stakeholders in the valuation process - trading, finance, market risk, model development and model review functions.
Risk assessment, monitoring and mitigation Interest rate risk The review process comprises the following steps: Non-traded interest rate risk NTIRR factors are grouped into the following categories: The committees prioritise models for review by MRM, considering the materiality of the risk booked against the Repricing risk - which arises when asset and liability model and an assessment of the degree of model risk, that positions either mature in the case of fixed-rate positions is the valuation uncertainty arising from the choice of or their interest rates reset in the case of floating-rate modelling assumptions.
These mismatches may give MRM quantifies the model risk by comparing front office rise to net interest income and economic value volatility as model outputs with those of alternative models interest rates vary.
Yield curve risk - which arises from unanticipated changes in The sensitivities derived from the pricing models are the shape of the yield curve, such that rates at different validated.
maturity points may move differently.
Such movements may The conclusions of the review are used by MRM to inform give rise to interest income and economic value volatility.
risk limits and by Finance to inform model reserves.
The two risk factors above incorporate the duration risk arising from the reinvestment of maturing swaps hedging net free reserves or net exposure to equity and other low fixedrate or non-interest-bearing liability balances including, but not limited to, current accounts.
unaudited 242 Business review Capital and risk management Basis risk - which arises when related instruments with the Foreign exchange exposures arising from customer transactions same tenor are valued using different reference yield are sold down by businesses on a regular basis in line with RBS curves.
Changes in the spread between the different policy.
reference curves can result in unexpected changes in the valuation of or income difference between assets, liabilities Equity risk or derivative instruments.
This occurs, for example, in the Non-traded equity risk is the potential variation in the income and retail and commercial portfolios, when products valued on reserves arising from changes in non-trading book equity the basis of the Bank of England base rate are funded with valuations.
Any such risk is identified prior to any investments LIBOR-linked instruments.
and then mitigated through a framework of controls.
Optionality risk - which arises when customers have the right to terminate, prepay or otherwise alter a transaction Investments, acquisitions or disposals of a strategic nature are without penalty, resulting in a change in the timing or referred to RBSs Acquisitions and Disposals Committee ADCo.
magnitude of the cash flows of an asset, liability or offOnce approved by ADCo for execution, such transactions are balance sheet instrument.
referred for approval to the Board, the Executive Committee, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or as Due to the long-term nature of many non-trading book portfolios otherwise required.
Decisions to acquire or hold equity positions and their varied interest rate repricing characteristics and in the non-trading book that are not of a strategic nature, such as maturities, it is likely that net interest income will vary from period customer restructurings, are taken by authorised persons with to period, even if interest rates remain the same.
New business delegated authority under the credit approval framework.
originated in any period will alter RBSs interest rate sensitivity if the resulting portfolio differs from portfolios originated in prior Risk measurement periods, depending on the extent to which exposure has been Interest rate risk hedged.
NTIRR can be measured from either an economic value-based or earnings-based perspective or both.
Value-based approaches RBSs policy is to manage the interest rate sensitivity within risk measure the change in value of the balance sheet assets and limits that are approved by the ERF and endorsed by the ALCo liabilities over a longer timeframe, including all cash flows.
before being cascaded to lower levels.
These include, in Earnings-based approaches measure the potential short-term particular, interest rate sensitivity and VaR limits.
generally one year impact on the income statement of charges in interest rates.
In order to manage exposures within these limits, RBS aggregates its interest rate positions and hedges them externally RBS uses both approaches to quantify its interest rate risk: VaR using cash and derivatives - primarily interest rate swaps.
as its value-based approach and sensitivity of net interest income NII as its earnings-based approach.
This task is primarily carried out by Treasury, to which all businesses except CIB transfer most of their NTIRR.
The main These two approaches provide different yet complementary exposures and limit utilisations are reported to the ALCo and the views of the impact of interest rate risk on the balance sheet at a Board monthly.
The scenarios employed in the NII sensitivity approach incorporate business assumptions and simulated Foreign exchange risk modifications in customer behaviour as interest rates change.
In The only material non-traded open currency positions are the contrast, the VaR approach assumes static underlying positions structural foreign exchange exposures arising from investments and therefore does not provide a dynamic measurement of in foreign subsidiaries, branches and associates and their related interest rate risk.
In addition, while the NII sensitivity currency funding.
These exposures are assessed and managed calculations are measured to a 12 month horizon and thus by Treasury to predefined risk appetite levels under delegated provide a shorter-term view of the risks on the balance sheet, the authority from the ALCo.
Treasury seeks to limit the potential VaR approach can identify risks not captured in the sensitivity volatility impact on RBSs Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio analysis, in particular the impact of duration and repricing risk on from exchange rate movements by maintaining a structural open earnings beyond 12 months.
Gains or losses arising from the retranslation of net investments in overseas operations are recognised in Value-at-risk equity reserves and reduce the sensitivity of capital ratios to RBSs standard VaR metrics - which assume a time horizon of foreign exchange rate movements primarily arising from the one trading day and a confidence level of 99% - are based on retranslation of  RWAs.
Sensitivity is interest rate repricing gaps at the reporting date.
Daily rate minimised where, for a given currency, the ratio of the structural moves are modelled using observations over the last 500 open position to RWAs equals RBSs CET1 ratio.
These incorporate customer products plus of the CET1 capital ratio to exchange rates is monitored monthly associated funding and hedging transactions as well as nonand reported to the ALCo at least quarterly.
financial assets and liabilities such as property, plant and equipment, capital and reserves.
Behavioural assumptions are applied as appropriate.
unaudited 243 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued The table below shows the NTIRR VaR for RBSs retail and commercial banking activities at a 99% confidence level together with a currency analysis of period end VaR.
It captures the risk resulting from mismatches in the repricing dates of assets and liabilities.
This includes any mismatch between structural hedges and stable non and low interest bearing liabilities such as equity and money transmission accounts as regards their interest rate repricing behavioural profile.
Average Period end Maximum Minimum m m m m 2015 - excluding Citizens 17 10 25 9 2015 - Citizens 5 16 2015 - Total 18 10 25 10 2014 - excluding Citizens 38 17 60 17 2014 - Citizens 20 11 42 8 2014 - Total 50 23 79 23 2014 2015 Excluding Citizens Citizens Total Period end VaR m m m m Euro 3 2 2 Sterling 5 12 12 US dollar 5 16 11 27 Other 4 3 3 The main movements by currency in 2015 related to US Key points dollar and sterling VaR, reflecting the disposal of Citizens Average interest rate VaR was lower in 2015 as RBS and the risk management activity described above.
steered its structural interest rate exposure more closely to These movements remained well within RBSs approved the neutral duration prescribed by its internal risk market risk appetite.
244 Business review Capital and risk management Sensitivity of net interest income The following table shows the sensitivity of net interest income, Earnings sensitivity to rate movements is derived from a central over the next 12 months, to an immediate upward or downward forecast over a 12 month period.
A simplified scenario is shown change of 25 and 100 basis points to all interest rates.
The main based on the period-end balance sheet assuming that nondriver of earnings sensitivity relates to interest rate pass-through interest rate variables remain constant.
Market implied forward assumptions on customer products.
The scenario also captures rates are used to generate a base case earnings forecast, which the impact of the reinvestment of maturing structural hedges at is then subjected to interest rate shocks.
The variance between higher or lower rates than the base case earnings sensitivity and the central forecast and the shock gives an indication of mismatches in the re-pricing dates of loans and deposits.
underlying sensitivity to interest rate movements.
The reported sensitivities will vary over time due to a number of factors such as market conditions and strategic changes to the balance sheet mix and should not therefore be considered predictive of future performance.
The sensitivities do not capture potential management responses to sudden changes in the interest rate environment.
Euro Sterling US dollar Other Total 2015 m m m m m 25 basis point shift in yield curves 6 48 25 1 68 25 basis point shift in yield curves 7 66 24 1 96 100 basis point shift in yield curves 17 385 94 7 469 100 basis point shift in yield curves 7 345 79 2 429 2014 - Excluding Citizens 100 basis point shift in yield curves 28 347 60 17 362 100 basis point shift in yield curves 34 298 2 12 346 2014 - Citizens 100 basis point shift in yield curves 154 154 100 basis point shift in yield curves 85 85 2014 - Total 100 basis point shift in yield curves 28 347 214 17 516 100 basis point shift in yield curves 34 298 87 12 431 Key points Interest rate exposure remains asset sensitive, so that rising Changes in pricing strategies and increased hedging of rates will have a positive impact on net interest income.
customer deposits are the key actions in retail and commercial banking that may reduce the interest rate Assumptions relating to customer pricing are kept under sensitivity.
review and may vary at different levels of interest rates.
As a result, the increase in sensitivity between a 25 basis point rate rise and a 100 basis point rate rise is not linear.
unaudited 245 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued Product hedging Structural hedging Product structural hedges are used to minimise the volatility on Banks generally have the benefit of a significant pool of stable, earnings related to specific products, primarily customer deposits.
non and low interest bearing liabilities, principally comprising The balances are primarily hedged with medium-term interest equity and money transmission accounts.
These balances are rate swaps, so that reported income is less sensitive to usually hedged, either by investing directly in longer-term fixed movements in short-term interest rates.
The size and term of the rate assets or by the use of interest rate swaps, in order to hedge are based on the stability of the underlying portfolio.
provide a consistent and predictable revenue stream.
The table below shows the impact on net interest income RBS targets a weighted average life for these economic hedges.
associated with product hedges managed by Treasury.
These This is accomplished using a continuous rolling maturity relate to the main UK banking businesses except Private Banking programme, which is primarily managed by Treasury to achieve and RBSI.
Treasury allocates income to products or equity in the desired profile.
The maturity profile of the hedge aims to structural hedges by reference to the relevant interest rate swap reduce the potential sensitivity of income to rate movements.
The curve after hedging the net interest rate exposure of the bank structural hedging programme is RBS-wide, capturing the externally.
This internal allocation has been developed over time position in the UK banking businesses and regulated subsidiaries alongside the banks external hedging programme and provides a in other jurisdictions.
basis for stable income attribution to the product and equity hedges.
2015 2014 Net interest income - impact of structural hedging m m UK Personal Business Banking 373 351 Commercial Banking 256 231 Capital Resolution 21 24 Williams & Glyn 45 42 Total product hedges 695 648 Key points The incremental impact of product hedges on net interest At 31 December 2015, the equivalent yield available in the income above 3 month LIBOR remained positive in 2015. market was 1.45% compared with 1.34% one year The notional size of the hedge increased from 64 billion in previously.
2014 to 72 billion, split by business broadly in line with the proportion of income as shown above.
During the year, interest rates remained at or close to historical low levels, as a result of which the average book yield including 3 month LIBOR fell from 1.54% to 1.48%.
This reflects the impact of maturing hedges being reinvested at lower rates and new hedges added during the year at prevailing market rates.
unaudited 246 Business review Capital and risk management Equity hedging Sensitivity of available-for-sale and cashflow hedging reserves to Equity structural hedges are used to minimise the volatility on interest rate movements earnings arising from returns on equity.
The hedges managed by The table below shows the estimated sensitivity of equity Treasury relate mainly to the UK banking businesses PBB and reserves to interest rate movements, on a pre-tax basis.
The CPB and contributed 0.7 billion to these businesses in 2015 scenarios shown are simplified scenarios in which all rates 2014 - 0.8 billion, which is an incremental benefit relative to across the yield curve have been moved up or down short-term wholesale cash rates.
The year-on-year fall in yield instantaneously by 25 basis points and 100 basis points and mainly results from reinvestment of maturing hedges at lower taxation effects have not been estimated.
In this analysis, interest rates.
The size of the hedge was unchanged from 2014 at 41 rates have not been floored at zero.
Note that a movement in the billion in 2015.
AFS reserve would have an impact on CET1 capital but a movement in the cash flow hedge reserve would not be expected to do so.
Volatility in both reserves affects tangible net asset value.
25 basis points -25 basis points 100 basis points -100 basis points 2015 m m m m Available-for-sale reserve 63 63 255 255 Cashflow hedge reserve 462 467 1,817 1,896 Total 525 530 2,072 2,151 Key point The impact of interest rate shifts on cashflow hedge reserves is broadly symmetrical.
The slight asymmetry reflects the changing sensitivity of derivative valuations to the same interest rate shock at differing levels of interest rates i. e. convexity.
unaudited 247 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued Foreign exchange risk The table below shows structural foreign currency exposures.
Net assets of NonNet assets of Net Structural foreign Residual structural overseas controlling overseas operations investment currency exposures Economic foreign currency operations interests excluding NCI 1 hedges pre-economic hedges hedges 2 exposures 2015 m m m m m m m US dollar 1,172 1,172 134 1,038 1,038 Euro 6,562 127 6,435 573 5,862 1,963 3,899 Other non-sterling 3,599 524 3,075 2,364 711 711 11,333 651 10,682 3,071 7,611 3,001 4,610 2014 US dollar - excluding Citizens 3,534 3,534 1,316 2,218 2,218 US dollar - Citizens 7,868 2,321 5,547 2,367 3,180 1,816 1,364 US dollar - total including Citizens 11,402 2,321 9,081 3,683 5,398 4,034 1,364 Euro 5,674 39 5,635 192 5,443 2,081 3,362 Other non-sterling 4,178 456 3,722 2,930 792 792 21,254 2,816 18,438 6,805 11,633 6,115 5,518 Notes: 1 Non-controlling interests NCI represents the structural foreign exchange exposure not attributable to owners equity, which consisted mainly of Citizens in US dollar in 2014.
2 Economic hedges mainly represent US dollar and euro preference shares in issue that are treated as equity under IFRS and do not qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.
They provide an offset to structural foreign exchange exposures to the extent that there are net assets in overseas operations available.
Key points Structural foreign currency exposure at 31 December 2015 Economic hedges decreased by 3.1 billion due to the was 7.6 billion and 4.6 billion before and after economic decrease in US dollar net assets.
hedges respectively, 4.0 billion and 0.9 billion lower than Changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect equity in at 31 December 2014. proportion to structural foreign currency exposure.
For The disposal of Citizens contributed significantly to: example, a 5% strengthening or weakening in foreign The 9.9 billion decline in net assets of overseas currencies against sterling would result in a gain or loss of operations: 0.4 billion in equity, respectively 2014 - 0.6 billion.
The 2.2 billion decline in non-controlling interests: and The 3.7 billion decline in net investment hedges.
Equity risk Equity positions are carried at fair value on the balance sheet based on available market prices where possible.
In the event that market prices are not available, fair value is based on appropriate valuation techniques or management estimates.
The table below shows the balance sheet carrying value of non-traded book equity positions.
Excluding Citizens Citizens 2015 2014 2014 2014 m m m m Exchange-traded equity 25 127 5 132 Private equity 534 544 544 Other 136 115 566 681 695 786 571 1,357 The exposures may take the form of i equity shares listed on a recognised exchange, ii private equity shares defined as unlisted equity shares with no observable market parameters or iii other unlisted equity shares.
Excluding Citizens Citizens 2015 2014 2014 2014 m m m m Net realised gains arising from disposals 60 111 111 Unrealised gains included in Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital 301 197 2 199 Note: 1 Includes gains or losses on available-for-sale instruments only.
Gains on equity securities designated at fair value through profit or loss but not held for trading purposes were 367 million for 2015 2014 - gains of 222 million.
248 Business review Capital and risk management VaR for non-trading book primarily CIB and Capital Resolution Non-trading books in CIB and Capital Resolution, other than the structured credit portfolio, do not typically form part of the structural interest rate framework due to the short-term nature of the interest rate risks they carry.
They are therefore monitored and managed through the same framework and using the same metrics as portfolios in the trading book.
2015 2014 Average Period end Maximum Minimum Average Period end Maximum Minimum m m m m m m m m Interest rate 1.8 0.9 3.5 0.9 2.7 2.7 6.8 1.1 Credit spread 1.0 0.4 2.8 0.1 3.6 2.4 5.4 2.4 Currency 0.2 0.2 2.1 0.5 0.4 1.1 0.1 Equity 0.3 0.5 0.9 0.2 0.7 0.8 1.2 Diversification 1 1.0 2.5 Total 2.1 1.0 3.8 0.9 4.6 3.8 7.1 3.0 Notes: 1 RBS benefits from diversification as it reduces risk by allocating positions across various financial instrument types, currencies and markets.
2 The table above excludes the structured credit portfolio and loans and receivables.
Key point The average VaR for the non-trading book, predominantly comprising available-for-sale portfolios, was 2.1 million during 2015 compared with 4.6 million in 2014.
This was largely driven by a decline in the credit spread VaR as a result of i Capital Resolution run-down, and ii the transfer of collateral and money market non-trading books into Treasury.
unaudited 249 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued VaR for non-trading book Treasury The interest rate risk and credit spread risk in Treasury arise primarily from portfolios held for liquidity and collateral management purposes.
Credit spread risk is the risk arising from the volatility in the spread between bond and swap rates and arises mainly from those non-trading book debt securities that are accounted at fair value.
This risk is reflected through changes in the portfolio valuation and is recognised in capital through available-for-sale AFS reserves.
The table below shows the interest rate and credit spread VaR relating to these exposures.
2015 m Interest rate 2.5 Credit spread 30.6 Note: 1 Interest rate exposure managed outside the structural interest rate exposure process.
Structured credit portfolio Pillar 1 capital must be held for non-trading book foreign The structured credit portfolio is measured on a notional and fair exchange exposures, as outlined under CRR Articles 455 and value basis due to its illiquid nature.
Notional and fair value 92 3 c. Structural foreign exchange exposures are excluded from decreased to 39 million and 49 million respectively 2014 - the calculations as outlined under CRR Article 352 2 : such 0.4 billion and 0.3 billion, reflecting the sale of underlying exposures are considered under Pillar 2A.
assets, primarily collateralised loan obligations, in line with Capital Resolution strategy.
Non-traded equity risk is captured in credit risk RWAs.
Calculation of regulatory capital The capital calculations under ICAAP are also used for economic RBS holds capital for two types of non-traded market risk capital purposes.
exposures: NTIRR and non-trading book foreign exchange.
Capital for NTIRR is captured under the Pillar 2A process.
This is calculated by considering the potential impact on RBSs economic value over a one year horizon.
The four main sources of NTIRR - repricing, yield curve, basis and optionality risks - are captured in the calculation.
unaudited 250 Business review Capital and risk management Linkage to balance sheet The table below analyses RBSs balance sheet by trading and non-trading business.
2015 2014 Trading Non-trading Trading Non-trading Total business 1 business 2 Total business 1 business 2 bn bn bn bn bn bn Primary risk factor Assets Cash and balances at central banks 79.9 79.9 75.5 75.5 Interest rate Net loans and advances to banks 19.0 11.2 7.8 24.8 11.2 13.6 Interest rate Net loans and advances to customers 308.0 17.4 290.6 394.8 23.2 371.6 Interest rate Reverse repos 39.9 38.6 1.3 64.7 61.1 3.6 Interest rate Debt securities 82.5 35.9 46.6 101.9 49.3 52.6 Interest rate, credit spreads Equity shares 1.4 0.7 0.7 6.2 4.9 1.3 Equities Derivatives 262.5 260.0 2.5 354.0 350.1 3.9 Interest rate, credit spreads Settlement balances 4.1 3.9 0.2 4.7 4.7 Settlement risk Other assets 18.1 18.1 24.4 24.4 Total assets 815.4 367.7 447.7 1,051.0 504.5 546.5 Liabilities Deposits by banks 28.1 20.0 8.1 40.9 25.5 15.4 Interest rate Customer deposits 346.0 11.4 334.6 414.9 14.2 400.7 Interest rate Repos 37.4 35.2 2.2 64.6 60.0 4.6 Interest rate Debt securities in issue 31.1 7.1 24.0 51.9 12.4 39.5 Interest rate Settlement balances 3.4 3.3 0.1 4.5 4.5 Settlement risk Short positions 20.8 20.8 23.0 23.0 Interest rate, credit spreads Derivatives 254.7 252.4 2.3 350.0 346.9 3.1 Interest rate, credit spreads Subordinated liabilities 19.8 19.8 23.1 23.1 Interest rate Other liabilities 20.0 20.0 19.4 19.4 Total liabilities 761.3 350.2 411.1 992.3 486.5 505.8 Notes: 1 Trading businesses are entities that primarily have exposures that are classified as trading book under regulatory rules.
For these exposures, the main methods used by RBS to measure market risk are detailed under traded market risk measurement on page 232.
2 Non-trading businesses are entities that primarily have exposures that are not classified as trading book.
For these exposures, with the exception of pension-related activities, the main measurement methods are sensitivity analysis of net interest income, internal non-traded VaR and fair value calculations.
For more information refer to pages 243 to 250.
3 Foreign exchange risk affects all non-sterling denominated exposures on the balance sheet across trading and non-trading businesses, and therefore has not been listed in the above tables.
