30 Effective risk management plays a central role in the successful development and execution of RBSs strategy.
Risk appetite is set in line with the overall strategy and approved by the board while the risk management framework identifies and manages current and emerging risks that could materially affect the delivery of our strategy.
Risk overview Progress in 2015 Capital Resolution reduced RWAs to RBS maintained a strong liquidity and RBS made continued progress in 2015 on 49 billion at 31 December 2015 from funding risk profile in 2015.
Its loan to delivering its strategy to reduce risk and 95 billion at 31 December 2014, with deposit ratio was 89% at 31 December strengthen its balance sheet and capital substantial progress seen across exit 2015, compared with 95% in 2014. position.
RCR reached its targeted The latest Individual Liquidity Adequacy run-down for 2015 with a total RWA Assessment ILAA showed that RBS is Risk-weighted assets fell 32% in the reduction of 38 billion since launch and in a strong position to withstand liquidity year to 243 billion.
a 13.5 billion reduction in 2015. stress scenarios.
It suggested that RBSs liquidity portfolio was large enough to The Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 The first tranche of the international cover more than double 227% the capital ratio increased by 430 bps to private banking business sale was expected outflows in the worst of three 15.5% and the leverage ratio increased completed with the second tranche due severe scenarios.
to be completed in the first half of 2016.
Top and emerging risks Risk elements in lending REIL fell to In the Bank of England BoE 2015 stress RBS employs a robust process for 12.2 billion, representing 3.9% of gross test, RBSs transitional Common Equity identifying and managing its top and customer loans, down from 6.8% at 31 Tier 1 CET1 capital ratio under the emerging risks.
Top risks are defined December 2014. hypothetical adverse scenario was 6.1% as scenarios that, while unlikely, may after the impact of management actions, materialise, and which, if they did, would RBS continued to reduce risk above the 4.5% post-stress minimum have a significant negative impact, such concentrations, notably in sectors CET1 capital ratio threshold set by the that RBS as a whole, or a particular such as Oil & Gas and Commercial BoE.
Taking into account the capital business, could potentially fail to meet Real Estate as well as in the Eurozone actions achieved in 2015 and those one or more of its strategic objectives.
planned in the future, RBS did not need to number of scenarios attracted particular alter its current capital plan as a result of attention in 2015: Good progress was made in fide-risking the stress test, including the requirements the balance sheet as a result of the relating to its Individual Capital Guidance Macro-economic and other continued run-down or sale of certain ICG.
RBSs Tier 1 leverage ratio under external risks businesses and higher-risk or capitalthe hypothetical adverse scenario was Risks related to the wider economy: intensive assets.
After the impact of management Like most other businesses, RBS remains actions, the ratio was 3.0%, which met the vulnerable to changes in the external Citizens was fully divested resulting in a 3.0% post-stress minimum Tier 1 leverage economic environment.
Among potential total RWA reduction of 63 billion.
ratio threshold set by the BoE.
scenarios considered, the following could For further Risk overview 31 information - 133 251 see pages have a material negative impact: a UK Regulatory and legal risks Impact of cyber attacks: recession including large house price The impacts of past business conduct: Cyber attacks are increasing in frequency falls: vulnerabilities in emerging market Future conduct and litigation charges and severity across the industry.
RBS has economies, including China, resulting in could be substantial.
RBS is involved participated in industry-wide cyber attack contagion in RBSs core markets: global in ongoing class action litigation, simulations in order to help test and deflation: volatility in international markets securitisation and mortgage-backed develop defence planning.
To mitigate the linked to advanced economy interest rate securities related litigation, investigations risks, a large-scale programme to improve increases or decreases: a resumption of into foreign exchange trading and rateuser access controls is in progress, along the eurozone crisis, including a worsening setting activities, continuing LIBOR-related with a number of other actions, including of the situation in Greece: and major litigation and investigations, investigations a reduction in the number of external geopolitical instability.
To mitigate these into the treatment of small and mediumwebsites, enhancement of anti-virus risks, RBS has strengthened its capital, sized business customers in financial protections, and the implementation of a liquidity and leverage positions.
A number difficulty, anti-money laundering, sanctions, staff education programme on information of higher-risk portfolios have been mis-selling including mis-selling of payment protection.
Stress testing is used protection insurance products, and other extensively to inform strategic planning investigations.
Settlements may result in Inability to recruit or retain suitable staff: and risk mitigation relating to these risks.
additional financial penalties, non-monetary RBS is undergoing significant penalties or other consequences, which organisational change, the result of Risks related to the UK referendum on EU may be material.
More detail on these a need to implement new business membership: issues can be found in the Litigation, strategies and respond to a changing The referendum on the UKs membership Investigations and Reviews and Risk external environment.
The pace of of the EU during this parliament increases Factors sections.
To prevent future conduct change, coupled with the associated economic and operational uncertainty.
from resulting in similar impacts, RBS has uncertainty, may cause experienced staff The result may also give rise to further embarked on a programme to embed to leave and prospective staff not to join.
political uncertainty regarding Scottish a strong and comprehensive risk and Although these risks concern all customer independence.
RBS actively monitors, compliance culture.
businesses, they particularly affect CIB.
and considers responses to, varying EU RBS has communicated expected changes referendum outcomes to ensure that it is Risks to income, costs and business in its organisational structure to members well prepared for all eventualities.
models arising from regulatory of staff, implementing plans aimed at requirements: minimising unexpected staff losses.
It is Risks related to the competitive RBS is exposed to the risk of further also working to implement an enhanced environment: increases in regulatory capital recruitment strategy.
RBSs target markets are highly requirements as well as risks related competitive, which poses challenges to new regulations that could affect its Failure of information technology in terms of achieving some strategic business models.
RBS considers the systems: objectives.
Moreover, changes in implications of proposed or potential RBSs information technology systems technology, customer behaviour and regulatory activities in its strategic and may be subject to failure.
As such systems business models in these markets have financial plans.
are complex, recovering from failure accelerated.
RBS monitors the competitive is challenging.
To mitigate these risks, environment and associated technological Operational and execution risks a major investment programme has and customer developments as part of Increased losses arising from a failure significantly improved the resilience of the its strategy development and makes to execute major projects successfully: systems and more benefits are expected.
The successful execution of major projects, Back-up system sustainability has including the transformation plan, the improved, and a shadow bank system, to An increase in obligations to support restructuring of CIB, the divestment of provide basic services, if needed, has been pension schemes: Williams & Glyn and the embedding of a created.
If economic growth stagnates, and interest strong and pervasive organisational and rates remain low, the value of pension risk culture, are essential to meet RBSs Full risk factors are discussed on pages scheme assets may not be adequate to strategic objectives.
The separation and 390 to 414. fund pension scheme liabilities.
The deficit eventual divestment of Williams & Glyn in RBS pension schemes as determined is a complex process and as such entails by the most recent triennial valuations significant operational and execution risk.
has increased, requiring RBS to increase The Group remains committed to full its current and future cash contributions divestment of Williams & Glyn by the end of to the schemes.
These projects cover organisational certain previously committed pension structure, business strategy, information contributions in Q1 2016 will reduce this technology systems, operational processes risk.
Depending on the economic and and product offerings.
RBS is working monetary conditions and longevity of to implement change in line with its scheme members prevailing at that time, project plans while assessing the risks the deficit may increase at subsequent to implementation and taking steps to valuations.
mitigate those risks where possible.
