Additional information Risk factors Settlements, resolutions and outcomes in relation to ongoing Set out below are certain risk factors that could adversely affect investigations may result in material financial fines or penalties, the Group's future results, its financial condition and prospects non-monetary penalties, ongoing commitments, restrictions upon and cause them to be materially different from what is expected.
or revocation of regulatory permissions and licences and other The factors discussed below and elsewhere in this report should collateral consequences and may prejudice both contractual and not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of legal rights otherwise available to the Group and the outcome of all potential risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
on-going claims against the Group may give rise to additional legal claims being asserted against the Group, any of which The Group is subject to a number of legal, regulatory and outcomes could materially adversely impact the Groups capital governmental actions and investigations.
Unfavourable outcomes position and prospects.
Monetary penalties and other outcomes in such actions and investigations could have a material adverse could be materially in excess of provisions, if any, made by the effect on the Groups operations, operating results, reputation, Group.
It is expected that the Group will continue to have a financial position and future prospects.
material exposure to litigation and governmental and regulatory In the past eight years, the Group has dramatically downsized proceedings and investigations relating to legacy issues in the and simplified the scale and complexity of its operations as medium term.
Adverse outcomes or resolution of current or future compared to its operations preceding and during the financial regulatory, governmental or law enforcement proceedings or crisis.
However, the Groups operations remain diverse and adverse judgements in litigation could result in restrictions or complex, and the Group operates in legal and regulatory limitations on the Groups operations, adversely impact the environments that expose it to potentially significant litigation, civil Groups strategic programme or have a material adverse effect and criminal regulatory and governmental investigations and on the Groups reputation, results of operations, capital position other regulatory risk.
The Group has settled a number of legal and prospects.
and regulatory investigations over the past several years but continues to be, and may in the future be, involved in a number of The Group may be required to make new or increase existing legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations in the UK, provisions in relation to existing or future legal proceedings, the US, Europe and other jurisdictions.
investigations and governmental and regulatory matters which may be substantial, including with respect to current matters in The Group is involved in ongoing reviews, investigations and relation to which the Group has not yet recognised legal proceedings both formal and informal by governmental law provisions.
In 2015, the Group booked a provision of 334 million enforcement and other agencies and litigation including class in respect of foreign exchange trading-related investigations.
In action litigation, relating to, among other matters, the offering of 2015 the Group booked an additional 2.1 billion related securities, conduct in the foreign exchange market, the setting of principally to mortgage-backed securities MBS litigation in the benchmark rates such as LIBOR and related derivatives trading, US resulting in total provisions made for this matter of 3.8 the issuance, underwriting, and sales and trading of fixed-income billion, of which 0.1 billion had been utilised at 31 December securities including structured products and government 2015.
No provisions have been made in relation to resolving the securities, product mis-selling, customer mistreatment including ongoing US Department of Justice and various US State alleged mistreatment of small and medium enterprises by RBSs Attorneys General investigations into MBS-related conduct Global Restructuring Group, as alleged in the November 2013 matters.
The costs of resolving these investigations and the costs report by Lawrence Tomlinson, anti-money laundering, beyond existing provisions of resolving MBS litigation in the US sanctions, and various other compliance issues.
In the US, could individually or in aggregate prove to be substantial.
The ongoing matters include various civil and criminal federal and Group also booked in 2015 additional provisions of 600 million state investigations relating to the securitisation of mortgages, as for Payment Protection Insurance, resulting in total provisions well as the trading of various forms of asset-backed securities.
made for this matter of 4.3 billion, of which 3.3 billion had been The Group continues to cooperate with governmental and utilised by 31 December 2015 and there remains a risk of future regulatory authorities in these and other investigations and provisions and costs.
The provision for interest rate hedging reviews.
For more detail on certain of the Groups ongoing legal, products redress and administration costs was also increased by governmental and regulatory proceedings, see pages 334 to 346.
68 million net of releases in 2015, with total provisions relating to this matter totalling 1.5 billion, of which 1.35 billion had been Legal, governmental and regulatory proceedings and utilised at 31 December 2015.
Significant new provisions or investigations are subject to many uncertainties, and their increases in existing provisions relating to legal proceedings, outcomes, including the timing and amount of fines or investigations and governmental and regulatory matters may settlements, which may be material, are often difficult to predict, have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition particularly in the early stages of a case or investigation.
and results of operations as well as its reputation.
390 Additional information The Group is subject to political risks There is potential for non-compliance if the Group fails to meet The European Union Referendum Act 2015 requires the UK this deadline, which might result in the Group breaching the government to hold a referendum on the UKs membership of the terms of the State Aid Commitment Deed and might constitute a European Union on 23 June 2016, subject to parliamentary misuse of state aid.
In such circumstances, a divestiture trustee approval expected by mid-April.
The outcome of the EU may be appointed, with the mandate to complete the disposal at referendum and consequences for the UK could significantly no minimum price.
This may adversely affect the attractiveness impact the environment in which the Group, its customers and of, and result in additional execution risks in respect of the sale investors operate, introducing significant new uncertainties in of, Williams & Glyn.
Furthermore, a failure to comply with the financial markets, as well as the legal and regulatory terms of the State Aid Commitment Deed could result in the requirements and environment to which the Group, its customers imposition of additional remedies or limitations on the Groups and investors are subject.
Uncertainty as to the outcome of the operations, additional supervision by the Groups regulators, and referendum will therefore lead to additional market volatility and is loss of investor confidence, any of which could have a material likely to adversely impact customer and investor confidence prior adverse impact on the Group.
Delays in execution may also to the vote.
impact the Groups ability to carry out its strategic programme and implement mandatory regulatory requirements, including the In the event of a result supporting the UKs exit from the UK ring fencing regime.
Such risks will increase in line with any European Union, the lack of precedent means that it is unclear additional delays.
how the UKs access to the EU Single Market and the wider trading, legal and regulatory environment would be impacted and The availability and interest of buyers or investors for Williams & hence how this would affect the Group, its customers and Glyn or the ability of the Group to divest the business on investors.
During a transitional period, when the terms of the exit commercially attractive terms is not certain.
In particular, Williams would be negotiated, or beyond, the related uncertainty could & Glyn is a complex business and unforeseen difficulties in have a material adverse effect on any of the Groups business, integrating the business with that of any buyer could deter financial condition, credit ratings and results of operations.
A potential buyers from bidding for the business or completing the vote supporting the UKs exit from the European Union may also sale.
In addition, the number of potential bidders with synergy give rise to further political uncertainty regarding Scottish potential or strategic interests may be limited and such investors independence.
may value the business below what the Group considers to be the fair value of the Williams & Glyn business.
Pursuant to the State Aid Commitment Deed and its strategic programme, the Group is in the process of separating Williams & The separation of the Williams & Glyn business from the Group Glyn with a view to fully divesting the business by the end of requires significant structural, governance and IT changes, which 2017.
The scale and complexity of this process, and the diversion will be complex to implement and will impact the Groups of Group resources required to support it, or delays in meeting customers, operations and controls.
In particular, a key the divestment deadline, could have a material adverse effect on component of the separation is the successful migration of the the Groups operations, operating results, financial position and Williams & Glyn business to a stand-alone and operational reputation.
Given the current interconnectedness of the The Group has met all of the divestment commitments contained Williams & Glyn business and other parts of the Group and in within the set of conditions upon which state aid approval was order to seek to meet the deadlines for divestment, this process received from the European Commission for the financial will necessarily divert management and personnel resources assistance provided to the Group by the UK Government in from the effective conduct of the Groups operations and December 2008, save for the divestment of the Groups RBS jeopardise the delivery and implementation of a number of other branches in England and Wales, NatWest branches in Scotland, significant change projects resulting from mandatory regulatory Direct SME banking and certain mid-corporate customers as a developments or as part of its strategic programme.
In addition, separate business under the Williams & Glyn brand Williams & the execution of the separation and divestment, and in particular Glyn.
In connection with the receipt of such aid, the Group the transition of the Williams & Glyn business to a stand-alone IT entered into a state aid commitment deed with HM Treasury as platform, will result in significant costs.
There are currently amended from time to time, the State Aid Commitment Deed.
approximately 6,000 employees FTE engaged on the project In light of its obligations under the State Aid Commitment Deed to and total costs incurred to 31 December 2015 relating to the fully divest Williams & Glyn by the end of 2017, the Group has separation and divestment of Williams & Glyn were 1.2 billion been actively seeking to fully divest Williams & Glyn in and are expected to increase through to completion.
Due to significant execution challenges, the separation of the Williams & Glyn business from the Group will now not be until after Q1 2017, as previously announced.
The Group remains committed to full divestment by the end of 2017, although it continues to face significant challenges and risks in separating the Williams & Glyn business, some of which may only emerge as various separation process phases are progressed.
Delays in separation may impact the Groups ability to meet the divestment deadline and could affect the means by which divestment can be achieved.
391 Additional information Risk factors continued This strategy is intended to leave the Group better positioned for Although the Group is committed to achieving the separation and the implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime.
The Groups divestment in the most cost-efficient manner, due to unforeseen strategy is also focussed on strengthening its overall capital complexities and factors outside of the Groups control, costs position.
During the restructuring period and until the could be materially higher than currently contemplated.
implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime in 2019, the Group Furthermore, an essential precondition for a trade sale or IPO of has lifted its capital targets and currently aims for a CET1 ratio at Williams & Glyn will be the granting of a banking licence by the or over 13%.
PRA, an application for which was submitted in September 2015, which in turn will depend, among other things, on demonstrating Implementing the Groups current strategic programme, including progress on the separation.
Delays in obtaining the licence may the restructuring of its CIB business, will require further material impact the sale process and buyer confidence or the Groups changes to be implemented within the Group over the medium ability to meet the prescribed deadlines for divestment.
term at the same time that it will also be implementing structural changes to comply with the UK ring-fencing regime and divesting As a direct consequence of the divestment of Williams & Glyn, Williams & Glyn.
The Group expects this restructuring period to the Group will lose existing customers, deposits and other assets.
be disruptive and likely to increase operational and people risks It may also lose the potential for realising additional associated for the Group and may divert management resources from the revenues and margins, or cost savings that it otherwise might conduct of the Groups operations and development of its have achieved.
The Group will also be unable to fully reduce its business.
shared central costs in proportion to the scale of reduction in income resulting from the divestment of Williams & Glyn.
The The Group may not be able to successfully implement any part of Groups financial condition may also be exposed to risk with its strategic programme in the time frames contemplated or at all, respect to the control, management and results of operations of and, as a result, the Group may not be able to achieve its stated Williams & Glyn during a transitional period.
The divestment may capital targets or its strategic objectives.
The Groups strategic also have a negative impact on the Groups competitive position, programme comprises a number of different actions and including through the emergence of a new competitor.
Depending initiatives, any of which could fail to be implemented due to on the form in which Williams & Glyn is divested, the Group may operational or execution issues.
Implementation of the Groups agree or be required to provide services for, or other forms of strategic programme is expected to result in significant costs, support financial or otherwise to, Williams & Glyn, which may which could be materially higher than currently contemplated, result in reputational and financial exposure for the Group and including due to material uncertainties and factors outside of the may require significant attention from the Groups senior Groups control.
management, in particular in respect of managing conflicts of interests and confidentiality of data.
Although one of the objectives of the Groups strategic programme is to achieve a medium-term reduction in annual The Group has been, and will remain, in a period of major underlying costs excluding restructuring and conduct-related restructuring through to 2019, which carries significant execution charges, this level of cost saving may not be achieved within the and operational risks, and there can be no assurance that the planned timescale or at any time.
Such risks are linked to and final results will be successful and that the Group will be a viable, additional to the risks relating to the implementation of the UK competitive, customer-focussed and profitable bank.
ring-fencing regime and the divestment of Williams & Glyn, and In the first quarter of 2015, the Group articulated a new strategy will be increased by issues or delays in their implementation, in focussed on the growth of its strategic operations in UK Personal particular delays in the separation and divestment of Williams & & Business Banking and Commercial & Private Banking and the Glyn.
further restructuring of its Corporate and Institutional Banking CIB business to focus mainly on UK and Western European On completion of the implementation of its strategic programme corporate and financial institutions.
It also announced the and the UK ring-fencing regime in 2019, the Groups businesses acceleration of the run-down of certain of its operations, will be primarily concentrated in the UK and Western Europe, and businesses and portfolios in order to reduce risk-weighted assets therefore its potential for profitability and growth will be largely as well as the scope and complexity of its activities.
dependent on its success with its retail and SME customers in the UK.
Due to the changed nature of the Groups business In 2015, the Group also continued the run-down of the higher risk model, future levels of revenue may not be achieved in the and capital intensive assets in RBS Capital Resolution RCR, timescale envisaged or at any time.
In addition, there can be no which has now been merged into Capital Resolution, and guarantee that the new business model defined for CIB will result strengthened the Groups capital position, including through the in a sustainable or profitable business.
As a result, in addition to full divestment of the Groups interest in Citizens Financial Group the execution risks associated with the implementation of its CFG, which were key goals of its previous strategic plan.
strategic programme and of the UK ring-fencing regime, there Finally, the Group remains focussed on meeting its returns and can be no assurance that even if the Group executes its strategic efficiency targets including cost reductions as well as improving programme, it will prove to be a successful strategy or that the customer experience and employee engagement.
restructured Group, on completion of these restructuring measures, will be a viable, competitive, customer-focussed and profitable bank.
392 Additional information Implementation of the ring-fencing regime in the UK which began These risks may be exacerbated by the Groups other ongoing in 2015 and must be completed by 1 January 2019 will result in restructuring efforts, including, in particular, the separation of the material structural changes to the Groups business.
These Williams & Glyn business, and new and developing legal changes could have a material adverse effect on the Group.
requirements relating to the regulatory framework for banking The UK Governments White Paper on Banking Reform resolution.
published in September 2012 outlined material structural reforms The Group intends to establish a ring-fenced bank subgroup for the UK banking industry.
The implementation of the ringRFB organised under an intermediate holding company fencing of retail banking operations was introduced under the UK for its UK-focussed banking services while the non-ringFinancial Services Banking Reform Act 2013 the Banking fenced group entities NRFBs will hold the Groups Reform Act 2013 and adopted through secondary legislation remaining trading activities, the operations of RBS the UK ring-fencing regime.
These reforms form part of a International and all non-EEA branches and subsidiaries broader range of structural reforms of the banking industry and some banking activities that are not permitted activities seeking to improve the resilience and resolvability of banks and for the RFB.
The establishment of the RFB and the NRFBs which range from structural reforms including ring-fencing to the will have a material impact on how the Group conducts its implementation of a new recovery and resolution framework business and require a significant legal and organisational which in the UK will incorporate elements of the ring-fencing restructuring of the Group and the transfer of large numbers regime.
See The Group and its subsidiaries are subject to a of assets, liabilities and customers between legal entities new and evolving framework on recovery and resolution, the and the realignment of employees, which may be subject to impact of which remains uncertain and which may result in consultation with employee representatives and will be additional compliance challenges and costs.
contingent upon court, regulatory or board approvals.
The Group is unable to predict how some customers may react The Prudential Regulation Authority PRA is carrying out to the required changes, including for some customers a consultations with the Group and other affected UK banks and is requirement to deal with both the RFB and NRFBs to obtain expected to publish the majority of its final rules and supervisory the full range of products and services.
The migration of statements during the first half of 2016.
The PRA has indicated some customers is also dependent on the completion of the that the implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime may be technical separation of Williams & Glyn from the Group.
further amended in light of any finalised EU proposals for the As part of the establishment of the RFB, the RFB will need mandatory separation of proprietary trading and related trading to operate independently from the NRFBs and material activities which are currently being considered by the European changes to the existing corporate governance structure will Parliament and the European Council.
A preliminary plan need to be put in place by the Group to ensure the RFBs outlining the Groups anticipated legal and operating structure independence and the Group cannot predict the extent of under the new regime was submitted to the PRA and the the associated increase in overhead and compliance costs.
Financial Conduct Authority FCA by the deadline set by the In order to comply with the requirements of the UK ringregulators of 6 January 2015.
On 29 January 2016, the Group fencing regime, the Group will need to revise its operations submitted an update to its draft ring-fencing plans to the infrastructure so as to comply with the shared services, regulators.
independence and resolvability requirements set out in the UK ring-fencing rules, including in areas such as information The Group has identified a number of material operational, technology IT infrastructure, human resources and critical execution and legal risks associated with the implementation of service providers.
Arrangements between RFB and NRFBs the UK ring-fencing regime.
These are in addition to the entities will also need to be reviewed in light of these uncertainty associated with starting to plan and prepare for requirements and the requirement that all such transactions implementation before final rules and guidance are in place or take place on an arms-length basis.
before the Group applies for or obtains certain waivers or The implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime will modifications as envisaged under the rules, which it expects to significantly impact the management of the Groups treasury require.
operations, including internal and external funding arrangements and may impact the credit ratings of some of the RFB or NRFBs entities.
Reliance on intragroup exemptions in relation to the calculation of risk-weighted assets and large exposures may not be possible between the RFB and NRFB entities.
Intragroup distributions including payments of dividends between RFB and NRFB entities which will include the Group parent company will also be subject to certain limitations.
The RFB subgroup will have to meet prudential requirements, including Pillar 2A requirements and the UKs Systemic Risk Buffer, at RFB subgroup level, in addition to meeting existing requirements applied on an individual entity basis where applicable.
393 Additional information Risk factors continued Operational risks are inherent in the Groups businesses and The potential loss of intragroup exemptions and the application of these risks could increase as the Group implements its strategic additional prudential requirements could result in increased programme, the UK ring-fencing regime and the divestment of capital requirements and related compliance costs.
In order to comply with the UK ring-fencing regime, from Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or 2026 it will not be possible for the RFB and the NRFBs to failed internal processes, people or systems, or from external participate in the same defined benefit pension plan.
As a events, including legal risk.
The Group has complex and result, it will be necessary for either the RFB or NRFBs to geographically diverse operations and operational risk and losses leave the current pension plan which is likely to trigger can result from IT failures, internal and external fraud, errors by certain legal and regulatory obligations and the costs of employees or third parties, failure to document transactions separation may be material, including possibly increasing properly or to obtain proper authorisations, failure to comply with annual cash contributions required to be made into the applicable regulatory requirements and conduct of business rules Groups pension plans.
including those arising out of anti-bribery, anti-money laundering The Group will also need to evaluate, among other things, and antiterrorism legislation, as well as the provisions of any accounting consequences resulting from the applicable sanctions programmes, equipment failures, financial restructuring as well as any tax costs in the event the reporting errors or deficiencies, business continuity and data implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime is delayed, the security system failures, information security threats or tax attributes of each of the RFB and NRFBs and the ability deficiencies, including cyber risk, natural disasters or the to transfer tax losses between RFB and NRFB entities.
inadequacy or failure of systems and controls, including those of Transfers of assets that have related hedging arrangements the Groups suppliers or counterparties.
may result in adverse operational, financial or accounting consequences if the transfer is not consistent with the Operational risks will be heightened as a result of the unaffected continuation of such hedging arrangements.
restructuring of the Group relating to the implementation of its strategic programme.
The implementation of the UK ring-fencing The steps required to implement the UK ring-fencing regime regime, the divestment of Williams & Glyn and the restructuring within the Group to comply with the new rules and regulations are of the CIB business carry significant execution and delivery risk, extraordinarily complex and will take an extended period of time are being delivered against the backdrop of ongoing cost to plan, execute and implement and entail significant costs and challenges and will put significant pressure on the Groups ability operational risks.
These operational risks are heightened as the to maintain effective internal controls.
Although the Group has UK ring-fencing regime will be implemented during a period of implemented risk controls and loss mitigation actions and significant business restructuring, which is expected to be significant resources and planning have been devoted to plans to dependent on the completion of the technical separation of mitigate operational risk associated with the Groups activities as Williams & Glyn from the Group.
Although final implementation is well as the implementation of the Groups strategic programme, not required until 1 January 2019, there is no certainty that the the UK ring-fencing regime, and the divestment of Williams & Group will be able to complete the legal restructuring and Glyn, it is not possible to be certain that such actions have been migration of customers on time or in accordance with future rules or will be effective in controlling each of the operational risks and the consequences of non-compliance are currently uncertain.
Ineffective management of operational risks Conducting the Groups operations in accordance with the new could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, rules may result in additional costs transitional and recurring financial condition and results of operations.
following implementation and impact the Groups profitability.
As a result, the implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime could The Groups businesses and performance can be negatively have a material adverse effect on the Groups reputation, results affected by actual or perceived global economic and financial of operations, financial condition and prospects.
market conditions and other global risks and the Group will be increasingly impacted by developments in the UK as its operations become increasingly concentrated in the UK.
On completion of the restructuring of the Group relating to the implementation of its strategic programme and the UK ringfencing regime, its business focus will be primarily in the UK and Western Europe.
Although the prospects for the UK and the United States remain the strongest among the G-7 in 2016 and Irelands economy continues to improve, actual or perceived difficult global economic conditions, failure to meet economic growth projections, particularly in the UK and the Groups other key markets, regulators concerns relating to the UK buy-to-let market and possible restrictions on mortgage lending as well as increased competition, particularly in the UK, would create challenging economic and market conditions and a difficult operating environment for the Groups businesses.
394 Additional information In addition, a number of European economies have not yet The challenging operating environment for the Groups recovered from the effects of the financial crisis and consensus businesses, created by uncertain economic and market forecasts of growth in 2016 and 2017 for some of the largest conditions, is characterised by: European economies such as France and Italy remain weak and prolonged periods of low interest rates resulting from the economic recovery of Greece and other European economies ongoing central bank measures to foster economic growth remains uncertain.
As a result, concerns relating to sovereign which constrain, through margin compression and low default, exit or breakup of the eurozone, and the direct and returns on assets, the interest income earned by the Group: indirect impact of such events on the UK and other European budgetary concerns affecting sovereign credit ratings and economies, remain.
impacting consumer confidence and spending and business confidence: The Groups businesses and many of its customers are, and will reduced activity levels, additional write-downs and continue to be, affected by global economic conditions, impairment charges and lower profitability, which either perceptions of those conditions and future economic prospects, alone or in combination with regulatory changes or the in particular insofar as they impact the UK economy.
The outlook activities of other market participants may restrict the ability for the global economy over the near to medium-term remains of the Group to access capital, funding and liquidity: and uncertain due to a number of factors including: major geopolitical the risk of increased volatility in yields and asset valuations instability, historically depressed oil and commodity prices, as central banks accelerate looser monetary policies such concerns around global growth and liquidity, uncertainty relating as in Japan or Europe or tighten or unwind historically to the scope and timing of interest rate rises against a backdrop unprecedented loose monetary policy or extraordinary of historically high sovereign and household borrowing levels and measures such as in the US.
In particular, slowing growth and high debt levels in emerging market economies to which the Developments relating to current economic conditions and Group is exposed including those economies to which the Group instability in financial markets, including those discussed above, remains exposed pending the exit of certain of its businesses and could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, which include China, India, Saudi Arabia and Russia remains an financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
area of concern and a further slowing of emerging country economic growth or recession, appreciation of the US dollar, new In addition, the Group is exposed to risks arising out of or extended economic sanctions or increased financing needs as geopolitical events, such as trade barriers, exchange controls existing debt matures, could impact the Group directly by and other measures taken by sovereign governments that can resulting in credit losses and indirectly by further impacting global hinder economic or financial activity levels.
Furthermore, economic growth and financial markets.
The Groups businesses unfavourable political, military or diplomatic events, armed and performance are also affected by financial market conditions.
conflict, pandemics and terrorist acts and threats, and the Financial markets, in particular equity and commodity markets, responses to them by governments, could also adversely affect experienced considerable volatility in late 2014 and in 2015 which economic activity and have an adverse effect upon the Groups has continued into 2016 and has translated in a downward trend business, financial condition and results of operations.
in financial markets which has in turn resulted in significant value destruction.
Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, bond, equity and commodity prices, basis, volatility and These trends are attributable to many of the factors noted above correlation risks and other market factors have significantly as well as significant downward movements in world markets, affected and will continue to affect the Groups business and especially China, and revised projections for Chinese and results of operations.
emerging market economic growth during the second half of Some of the most significant market risks that the Group faces 2015 and the beginning of 2016.
Financial markets also were and are interest rate, foreign exchange, credit spread, bond, equity will likely continue to be impacted by the uncertainty as to how and commodity prices and basis, volatility and correlation risks.
economies and counterparties will be affected, directly or Monetary policy has been highly accommodative in recent years, indirectly, by the impact and timing of monetary policy measures including as a result of certain policies implemented by the Bank adopted by the Bank of England, the European Central Bank of England and HM Treasury such as the Funding for Lending ECB, the US Federal Reserve and other central banks, scheme, which have helped to support demand at a time of very including the Bank of Japan.
While the ECB has been pronounced fiscal tightening and balance sheet repair.
There implementing a quantitative easing programme since January remains considerable uncertainty as to whether or when the Bank 2015 designed to improve confidence in the eurozone and of England and other central banks will increase interest rates, encourage more private bank lending, there remains following the US Federal Reserves decision in December 2015 considerable uncertainty as to whether such measures have to raise US interest rates for the first time since 2006.
A been or will be sufficient or successful.
continued period of low interest rates and yield curves and spreads may affect the interest rate margin realised between lending and borrowing costs, the effect of which may be heightened during periods of liquidity stress.
395 Additional information Risk factors continued Although it has significantly reduced its exposure in 2015, the Conversely, raising interest rates could lead to generally weaker Group is exposed to oil and commodity prices though its than expected growth, or even contracting GDP, reduced exposure to customers and its other counterparties in the energy business confidence, higher levels of unemployment or sector and oil producing countries.
Further or sustained low oil underemployment, adverse changes to levels of inflation, and commodity prices could negatively impact the Groups potentially higher interest rates and falling property prices in the customers and other counterparties and the value of the Groups markets in which the Group operates, including the UK housing trading portfolios.
market, and consequently to an increase in delinquency rates and default rates among customers.
Similar risks result from the The Groups business performance and financial position could exceptionally low level of inflation in developed economies, which be adversely affected if its capital is not managed effectively or if in Europe particularly could deteriorate into sustained deflation if it is unable to meet its capital targets.
Reduced monetary stimulus Effective management of the Groups capital is critical to its ability and the actions and commercial soundness of other financial to operate its businesses, comply with its regulatory obligations, institutions have the potential to impact market liquidity.
Any pursue its strategy of returning to stand-alone strength, resume adverse impact on the credit quality of the Groups customers dividend payments on its ordinary shares and maintain and other counterparties, coupled with a decline in collateral discretionary payments.
The Group is required by regulators in values, could lead to a reduction in recoverability and value of the the UK, the EU and other jurisdictions in which it undertakes Groups assets and higher levels of impairment allowances, regulated activities to maintain adequate capital resources.
which could have an adverse effect on the Groups operations, Adequate capital also gives the Group financial flexibility in the financial position or prospects.
As part of its ongoing derivatives face of continuing turbulence and uncertainty in the global operations, the Group also faces significant basis, volatility and economy and specifically in its core UK and European markets.
correlation risks, the occurrence of which are also impacted by On a fully loaded basis, the Groups CET1 ratio was 15.5% at 31 the factors noted above.
Any such developments may also adversely impact the value of During the restructuring period and until the implementation of the Groups pension fund which may result in the Group being the UK ring-fencing regime in 2019, the Group has lifted its required to make additional contributions.
See The Group is capital targets and currently aims to have a CET1 ratio at or over subject to pension risks and may be required to make additional 13%.
The Group plans capital levels based on regulatory contributions to cover pension funding deficits and to restructure requirements and additional internal modelling and stress its pension schemes as a result of the implementation of the UK scenarios.
However, the Groups ability to achieve such targets depends on Changes in currency rates, particularly in the sterling-US dollar a number of factors, including the implementation of its strategic and sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the value of assets, programme and any of the factors described below.
A shortage of liabilities, income and expenses denominated in foreign capital could arise from: currencies and the reported earnings of the Groups non-UK a depletion of the Groups capital resources through subsidiaries and may affect the Groups reported consolidated increased costs or liabilities including pension, conduct, financial condition or its income from foreign exchange dealing.
litigation and legacy costs, reduced profits or losses and Such changes may result from the decisions of the ECB and of therefore retained earnings or reduced asset values the US Federal Reserve and lead to sharp and sudden variations resulting in write-downs or impairments: in foreign exchange rates, such as those seen in the GBP USD an increase in the amount of capital that is needed to be exchange rates in 2015 and early 2016.
For accounting held, including as a result of changes to the actual level of purposes, the Group carries some of its issued debt, such as risk faced by the Group, changes in the minimum levels of debt securities, at the current market price on its balance sheet.
capital or liquidity required by legislation or by the regulatory Factors affecting the current market price for such debt, such as authorities or the calibration of capital or leverage buffers the credit spreads of the Group, may result in a change to the fair applicable to the Group, including countercyclical buffers, value of such debt, which is recognised in the income statement increases in risk-weighted assets or in the risk weighting of as a profit or loss.
existing asset classes or an increase in the Groups view of the management buffer it should hold taking account of, for The performance and volatility of financial markets affect bond example, the capital levels or capital targets of the Groups and equity prices and have caused, and may in the future cause, peer banks or through the changing views of rating changes in the value of the Groups investment and trading agencies.
Financial markets experienced significant volatility during 2015 and early 2016, following concerns about the political and economic recovery in Greece, volatility and instability in the Chinese and global stock markets and weakening fundamentals of the Chinese economy, resulting in further short-term changes in the valuation of certain of the Groups assets.
In addition, oil prices continued to fall significantly against their historical levels during 2015 and early 2016 and remained at such low levels, and other commodity prices also decreased.
396 Additional information The Groups current capital strategy is based on the expected Under CRD IV, the Group is required to hold at all times a accumulation of additional capital through the accrual of profits minimum amount of regulatory capital calculated as a percentage over time and or through the planned reduction of its riskof risk-weighted assets Pillar 1 requirement.
CRD IV also weighted assets through disposals or natural attrition, the introduced six new capital buffers that are in addition to the Pillar execution of which is subject to operational and market risks.
1 and Pillar 2A requirements as described below and are Further losses or a failure to meet profitability targets or reduce required to be met with CET1 capital.
In December 2015, the risk-weighted assets in accordance with or within the timeline Bank of England published a report on the framework of capital contemplated by the Groups capital plan, combined with a requirements for UK banks, which outlines the expectation that depletion of its capital resources or an increase in the amount of capital buffers be used actively by the regulator to serve a macrocapital it needs to hold including as a result of the reasons prudential purpose.
The combination of the capital conservation described above, would adversely impact the Groups ability to buffer which, subject to transitional provisions, will be set at meet its capital targets or requirements and achieve its capital 2.5% from 2019, the countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% strategy during the restructuring period.
and the higher of depending on the institution the systemic risk buffer, the global systemically important institutions buffer GSIB If circumstances were to result in the Group having or being Buffer and the other systemically important institutions buffer, is perceived to have a shortage of capital as a result of any of the referred to as the combined buffer requirement.
These rules circumstances described above, then it may be subject to entered into force on 1 May 2014 for the countercyclical capital regulatory interventions and sanctions and may suffer a loss of buffer and on 1 January 2016 for the capital conservation buffer confidence in the market with the result that access to liquidity and the GSIB buffer.
The GSIB buffer is currently set at 1.5% for and funding may become constrained or more expensive.
This the Group, but will reduce to 1.0% on 1 January 2017, and is may also trigger the implementation of its capital recovery plans.
being phased in over the period from 1 January 2017 to 1 This, in turn, may affect the Groups capacity to continue its January 2019.
The systemic risk buffer will be applicable from 1 business operations, pay future dividends and make other January 2019.
The Bank of Englands Financial Policy Committee distributions including coupons on capital instruments or pursue the FPC is responsible for determining which institutions strategic opportunities, impacting future growth potential.
If, in should hold the systemic risk buffer, and if so, how large the response to such shortage, the Group is required to convert buffer should be up to a maximum of 3% of a firms risk-weighted certain regulatory capital instruments into equity or raises assets.
The FPC is currently consulting on the proposed additional capital through the issuance of share capital or framework for the systemic risk buffer, with final rules to be regulatory capital instruments, existing shareholders may finalised by 31 May 2016.
The systemic risk buffer is part of the experience a dilution of their holdings.
Separately, the Group may UK framework for identifying and setting higher capital buffers for address a shortage of capital by taking action to reduce leverage domestic systemically important banks D-SIBs, which are and or risk-weighted assets, by modifying the Groups legal entity groups that, upon distress or failure, could have an important structure or by asset or business disposals.
Such actions may impact on their domestic financial systems.
This follows on 2012 impact the underlying profitability of the Group.
framework recommendations by the FSB that national authorities should identify D-SIBs and take measures to reduce the Failure by the Group to comply with regulatory capital and probability and impact of the distress or failure of D-SIBs.
In leverage requirements may result in intervention by its regulators addition, national supervisory authorities may add extra capital and loss of investor confidence, and may have a material requirements the Pillar 2A requirements to cover risks that adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and they believe are not covered or insufficiently covered by Pillar 1 reputation and may result in distribution restrictions and requirements.
The Group is subject to extensive regulatory supervision in The Groups current Pillar 2A requirement set by the PRA is set relation to the levels and quality of capital in its business, at an equivalent of 3.5% of risk-weighted assets.
The PRA has including as a result of the transposition of the Basel Committee also introduced a firm specific Pillar 2B buffer PRA buffer on Banking Supervisions regulatory capital framework Basel which is a forward-looking requirement set annually and based III in Europe by a Directive and Regulation collectively known on various factors including firm-specific stress test results and as CRD IV.
In addition, the Group has been identified as a credible recovery and resolution planning and is to be met with global systemically important bank GSIB by the Financial CET1 capital.
UK banks are required to meet the higher of the Stability Board FSB and is therefore subject to more intensive combined buffer requirement or PRA buffer requirement.
The oversight and supervision by its regulators as well as additional Pillar 2A requirements and the PRA buffer result in the setting of capital requirements, although in the FSBs most recent annual a fixed amount of CET1 capital which must be held by the Group list of GSIBs published in November 2015, the Group was moved and which will remain largely static during the period of down to the last bucket, meaning that it will be subject to the restructuring of the Group, while risk-weighted assets are lowest level of additional loss-absorbing capital requirements.
expected to continue to reduce during the same period, which will in turn put pressure on the Groups ability to maintain its capital ratio targets and implement its distribution strategy.
397 Additional information Risk factors continued If the Group is unable to raise the requisite amount of regulatory In addition to capital requirements and buffers, the new capital, or to otherwise meet regulatory capital and leverage regulatory framework adopted under CRD IV, as transposed in requirements, it may be exposed to increased regulatory the UK, sets out minimum leverage ratio requirements for supervision or sanctions, loss of investor confidence, restrictions financial institutions.
The FPC has directed the PRA to on distributions and may be required to reduce further the implement: i a minimum leverage requirement of 3% which amount of its risk-weighted assets or total assets and engage in applies to major UK banks, ii an additional leverage ratio to be the disposal of core and other non-core businesses, which may met by GSIBs and ring-fenced institutions to be calibrated at 35% not occur on a timely basis or achieve prices which would of the relevant firms systemic risk capital buffer and which is otherwise be attractive to the Group.
A breach of the Groups being phased in from 2016 and iii a countercyclical leverage applicable capital or leverage requirements may also trigger the ratio buffer for all firms subject to the minimum leverage ratio application of the Groups recovery plan to remediate a deficient requirements which is calibrated at 35% of a firms capital position.
A breach of the capital and leverage countercyclical capital buffer.
requirements applicable to the Group may also result in the conversion into equity of certain regulatory capital instruments Most of the capital requirements which apply or will apply to the issued by the Group or the issue of additional equity or regulatory Group will need to be met in whole or in part with CET1 capital.
capital instruments by the Group, each of which could result in CET1 capital broadly comprises retained earnings and equity the dilution of the Groups existing shareholders.
As a result, the Group may be required to issue additional ordinary shares in order to Failure by the Group to comply with its capital requirements or to maintain or increase its CET1 capital if its retained earnings from maintain sufficient distributable profits may result in the the profits of its operations are insufficient, which could result in application of restrictions on its ability to make discretionary the dilution of existing shareholders.
distributions, including the payment of dividends to its ordinary shareholders and coupons on certain capital instruments.
Further, under the provisions of CRD IV Regulation, deferred tax From 2016, in accordance with the provisions of CRD IV, a assets that rely on future profitability for example, deferred tax minimum level of capital adequacy is required to be met by the assets related to trade losses and do not arise from temporary Group in order for it to be entitled to make certain discretionary differences, must be deducted in full from CET1 capital.
Pursuant to Article 141 Restrictions on distribution of deferred tax assets which rely on future profitability and arise the CRD IV Directive, as transposed in the UK, institutions that from temporary differences are subject to a threshold test and fail to meet the combined buffer requirement will be subject to only the amount in excess of the threshold is deducted from restricted discretionary payments which are defined broadly by CET1 capital.
The regulatory treatment of such deferred tax CRD IV as payments relating to CET1 dividends, variable assets may change and adversely impact the Groups CET1 remuneration and coupon payments on additional Tier 1 capital and related ratios.
The restrictions are scaled according to the extent of the breach of the combined buffer requirement and The Basel Committee and other agencies remain focussed on calculated as a percentage of the profits of the institution since changes that will increase, or recalibrate, measures of riskthe last distribution of profits or discretionary payment.
The EBA weighted assets as the key measure of the different categories of has clarified that the CET1 capital to be taken into account for the risk in the denominator of the risk-based capital ratio.
While they MDA calculation should be limited to the amount not used to are at different stages of maturity, a number of initiatives across meet the Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 own funds requirements of the risk types and business lines are in progress that will impact the institution.
In the event of a breach of the combined buffer calculation of risk-weighted assets.
The Basel Committee is requirement, the Group will be required to calculate its MDA, and currently consulting on new rules relating to the risk weighting of as a consequence it may be necessary for the Group to reduce real estate exposures and other changes to risk-weighting or cease discretionary payments to the extent of the breach.
These rules are expected to be finalised later in ability of the Group to meet the combined buffer requirement will 2016 and come into force by 2019.
In the UK, the FPC and PRA be subject to the Group holding sufficient CET1 capital in excess are also considering ways of reducing the sensitivity of UK of its minimum Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 capital requirements.
In mortgage risk weights to economic conditions.
The 2014 UK addition, the interaction of such restrictions on distributions with stress test demonstrated that the risk weights on some banks the capital requirements and buffers applicable to the Group residential mortgage portfolios can increase significantly in remains uncertain in many respects while the relevant authorities stressed conditions.
As these new rules are implemented, some in the EU and the UK consult on and develop their proposals and banks measures of risk-weighted assets are expected to guidance on the application of the rules.
While the quantum of impact of these reforms remains uncertain owing to lack of clarity of the proposed changes and the timing of their introduction, the likelihood of an impact resulting from each initiative may be high and such impacts could result in higher levels of risk-weighted assets and therefore higher levels of capital, and in particular CET1 capital, required to be held by the Group.
398 Additional information In addition, in order to make distributions including dividend However, if a bank is projected to fail to meet its systemic buffers, payments, the Group is required to have sufficient distributable it will still be expected to strengthen its capital position over time profits available.
Furthermore, coupon payments due on the but the supervisory response is expected to be less intensive additional tier 1 instruments issued by the Group must be than if it were projected to breach its minimum capital cancelled in the event that the Group has insufficient requirements.
distributable items as defined under CRD IV.
Both distributable profits and distributable items are largely impacted by the Failure by the Group to meet the thresholds set as part of the Groups ability to generate and accumulate profits or conversely stress tests carried out by its regulators in the UK and elsewhere by material losses including losses resulting from conduct may result in the Groups regulators requiring the Group to hold related-costs, restructuring costs or impairments.
Failure by the additional capital, increased supervision and or regulatory Group to meet the combined buffer requirement or retain sanctions, restrictions on capital distributions and loss of investor sufficient distributable profits or distributable items as a result of confidence, which may impact the Groups financial condition, reduced profitability or losses, or changes in regulation or taxes results of operations and prospects.
adversely impacting distributable profits or distributable items, may therefore result in limitations on the Groups ability to make As a result of extensive reforms being implemented within the EU discretionary distributions which may negatively impact the and the UK relating to the resolution of financial institutions, Groups shareholders, holders of additional tier 1 instruments, additional requirements will arise to ensure that financial staff receiving variable compensation such as bonuses and institutions maintain sufficient loss-absorbing capacity.
Such other stakeholders and impact its market valuation and investors changes to the funding and regulatory capital framework may and analysts perception of its financial soundness.
require the Group to meet higher funding levels than the Group anticipated within its strategic plans and affect the Groups The Group is subject to stress tests mandated by its regulators in funding costs.
the UK and in Europe which may result in additional capital In addition to the capital and leverage requirements under CRD requirements which, in turn, may impact the Groups financial IV, the EU Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive BRRD condition, results of operations and investor confidence or result introduces, among other things, a requirement for banks to in restrictions on distributions.
maintain at all times a sufficient aggregate amount of own funds The Group is subject to stress tests by its regulator in the UK and and eligible liabilities that is, liabilities that can absorb loss and by the European regulators with respect to RBS NV and Ulster assist in recapitalising a firm in accordance with a predetermined Bank.
The results of the 2015 Bank of England stress tests resolution strategy, known as the minimum requirements for showed that RBSs capital position remained above the Pillar 1 eligible liabilities MREL, designed to ensure that the resolution minimum capital requirements of 4.5% and met the leverage ratio of a financial institution may be carried out, without public funds of 3.0% in the hypothetical stress scenario.
Although the PRA being exposed to the risk of loss and in a way which ensures the judged that the Group did not meet its CET1 individual capital continuity of critical economic functions, maintains financial guidance after management actions in this scenario, in light of stability and protects depositors.
MREL is being implemented as past and future plans to improve its capital position, the PRA did part of the resolution planning process and not as a separate or not require the Group to submit a revised capital plan.
In October additional capital requirement under Basel III.
Indeed, if a banks 2015, the Bank of England published its approach to stress resolution plans are not deemed sufficient, the regulator can testing for the UK banking system applicable until 2018.
The require it to carry higher MREL over and above regulatory minima results of these tests will be used by the FPC and the PRA, and potentially higher than its peers.
Certain capital resources alongside other inputs, to set the level of a financial institutions required under CRD IV and associated institution-specific capital capital buffers, in particular the capital conservation buffer, requirements set by the PRA or FCA may count toward meeting countercyclical buffer and the PRA buffer.
MREL, but the PRA has indicated its intention to prohibit certain double-counting of existing capital resources.
The PRA will also use the stress test results to inform its determination of whether individual banks current capital In particular, CET1 capital used to meeting a financial institutions positions are adequate or need strengthening.
For some banks, risk-weighted or leverage buffer requirements may not count their individual stress-test results might imply that the capital towards meeting MREL requirements.
As a result, the Group may conservation buffer and countercyclical rates set for all banks is be required to issue additional instruments in the form of CET1 not consistent with the impact of the stress on them.
In that case, capital or subordinated or senior unsecured debt instruments and the PRA can increase regulatory capital buffers for individual may result in an increased risk of a breach of the Groups banks by adjusting their PRA buffers.
In addition, if the stress combined buffer requirement, triggering the restrictions relating to tests reveal that a banks existing regulatory capital buffers are the MDA described above.
not sufficient to absorb the impact of the stress, it is possible that it will need to take action to strengthen its capital position.
There In addition to the requirements described above, the FSB is a strong presumption that the PRA would require a bank to published in November 2015 a final term sheet setting out its total take action if, at any point during the stress, a bank were loss-absorbing capacity TLAC standards for global projected to breach any of its minimum CET1 capital or leverage systemically important banks G-SIBs.
Although the Bank of ratio requirements.
England has indicated that it would use its powers to set MRELs for G-SIBs to implement the FSBs TLAC standards, the TLAC and MREL requirements differ in a number of ways.
399 Additional information Risk factors continued In order to achieve structural subordination for MREL purposes, The EBA is mandated to assess the implementation of MREL in senior unsecured issuances by RBSG will therefore need to be the European Union and the consistency of MREL with the final subordinated to the excluded liabilities described above.
The TLAC standards in a report required by October 2016.
This may TLAC standard includes an exemption from this requirement if result in the European Commission making amendments to the the total amount of excluded liabilities on RBSGs balance sheet European regime on loss-absorbing requirements, which may in does not exceed 5% of its external TLAC i. e. the eligible turn impact the UK authorities implementation of the MREL liabilities RBSG has issued to investors which meet the TLAC requirements under the BRRD, and therefore may impact the requirements and the Bank of England has indicated in its quality or quantity of the capital required to be held by the Group.
consultation on MREL that it intends to adopt a similar approach.
The UK government is required to transpose the BRRD's Compliance with these and other future changes to capital provisions relating to MREL into law through further secondary adequacy and loss-absorbency requirements in the EU and the legislation with a requirement that the Bank of England take into UK by the relevant deadline will require the Group to restructure account the final draft regulatory technical standards published its balance sheet and issue additional capital compliant with the by the EBA in July 2015. rules.
In particular, these changes will require the Group to issue Tier 1 capital potentially including ordinary shares and additional The Bank of England is responsible for setting the MREL Tier 1 instruments, Tier 2 capital and certain loss-absorbing debt requirements for each UK bank, building society and certain securities, including senior securities, which may be costly and investment firms in consultation with the PRA and the FCA, and will result in certain existing Tier 1 and Tier 2 securities and other such requirement will be set depending on the resolution strategy senior instruments issued by the Group ceasing to count towards of the financial institution.
the Groups loss-absorbing capital for the purposes of meeting MREL TLAC requirements.
The Bank of England is currently consulting on the approach to be adopted in setting MREL, including, with respect to GSIBs, in There remains considerable uncertainty as to how these rules will line with the FSBs TLAC standards.
GSIBs will be expected to be implemented and the final requirements to which the Group meet their MREL requirements from 1 January 2019 and other will be subject, and the Group may therefore need to revise its financial institutions by 1 January 2020, subject to transitional capital plan accordingly.
The requirement to increase the Groups arrangements.
Until that time, MREL will be set equal to levels of CET1 and Tier 2 capital, or other debt securities which applicable minimum capital requirements, unless the Bank of qualify for meeting MREL, could have a number of negative England has particular concerns about a firms resolvability.
consequences for the Group and its shareholders, including MREL requirements are expected to be set on a consolidated impairing the Groups potential future ability to pay dividends on, and individual basis, including for the holding entity of the or make other distributions in respect of, ordinary shares and banking group, at a level equivalent to two times the current diluting the ownership of existing shareholders of the Group.
minimum Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A capital requirements for that financial institution or, if higher, any applicable leverage ratio The Groups borrowing costs, its access to the debt capital requirement, or the minimum capital requirements under Basel III markets and its liquidity depend significantly on its credit ratings plus, if applicable, capital buffer requirements: one for loss and, to a lesser extent, on the rating of the UK Government.
absorbency and one for recapitalisation.
The credit ratings of RBSG, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc RBS plc and other Group members directly affect the cost of, For institutions, including the Group, for which bail-in is the access to and sources of their financing and liquidity.
A number required resolution strategy and which are structured to permit of UK and other European financial institutions, including RBSG, single point of entry resolution due to their size and systemic RBS plc and other Group members, have been downgraded importance, the Bank of England has indicated that in order to multiple times in recent years in connection with rating qualify as MREL, eligible liabilities i. e. total loss-absorbing methodology changes and credit rating agencies revised outlook liabilities will be expected to be issued from the resolution entity relating to regulatory developments, macroeconomic trends and i. e. the holding company for the Group and be structurally a financial institutions capital position and financial prospects.
subordinated to operating and excluded liabilities which include insured deposits, short-term debt, derivatives, structured notes During 2015, credit rating agencies completed their reviews and and tax liabilities.
revisions of their ratings of banks by country to address the agencies perception of the impact of ongoing regulatory changes The capital raised through such issuances would then be designed to improve the resolvability of banks in a manner that transferred downstream to material operating subsidiaries in the minimises systemic risk, such that the likelihood of extraordinary form of capital or another form of subordinated claim.
In this way, support for failing banks is less predictable, as well as to address MREL resources will be structurally subordinated to senior the finalisation of revised capital and leverage rules under CRD liabilities of operating companies, allowing losses from operating IV and firm-specific requirements.
companies to be transferred to the holding company and if necessary for resolution to occur at the holding company level, without placing the operating companies into a resolution process.
In addition, the instruments which may qualify towards MREL will be determined in the PRAs final rules.
400 Additional information As a result, RBSGs long-term and short-term credit ratings were Any downgrade in the UK Governments credit ratings could also downgraded by two notches by S&P and Fitch.
S&P further adversely affect the credit ratings of Group companies and may downgraded the long-term credit rating of RBSG as a result of a result in the effects noted above.
In particular, political number of factors, including S&Ps assessment of the Groups developments, including any exit, or uncertainty relating to a financial flexibility to absorb losses while a going concern, and potential exit, of the UK from the European Union or the outcome the Groups underperformance relative to similar peers in terms of any further Scottish referendum could during a transitional of profitability.
The long-term deposit and senior unsecured period negatively impact the credit ratings of the UK Government ratings for RBS plc and certain other subsidiaries of RBSG, and result in a downgrade of the credit ratings of RBSG and however, were upgraded by one notch to take into account the Group entities.
protection offered to senior unsecured creditors by lossabsorbing capital.
Moodys also finalised its review of RBS and The Groups ability to meet its obligations including its funding downgraded RBSGs long-term senior unsecured and issuer commitments depends on the Groups ability to access sources credit ratings by two notches.
As a result, the credit ratings of of liquidity and funding.
RBSG are below investment grade by that credit agency.
The Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will be unable to meet its outlook for RBSG by Moodys is currently positive and is stable obligations, including funding commitments, as they fall due.
risk is inherent in banking operations and can be heightened by a number of factors, including an over-reliance on a particular Rating agencies regularly review the RBSG and Group entity source of wholesale funding including, for example, short-term credit ratings and their ratings of long-term debt are based on a and overnight funding, changes in credit ratings or market-wide number of factors, including the Groups financial strength as well phenomena such as market dislocation and major disasters.
as factors not entirely within the Groups control, including Credit markets worldwide, including interbank markets, have conditions affecting the financial services industry generally.
experienced severe reductions in liquidity and term funding during prolonged periods in recent years.
In 2015, although the In particular, the rating agencies may further review the RBSG Groups overall liquidity position remained strong, credit markets and Group entity ratings as a result of the implementation of the experienced increased volatility and certain European banks, in UK ring-fencing regime, pension and litigation regulatory particular in the peripheral countries of Spain, Portugal, Greece investigation risk and other macroeconomic and political and Italy, remained reliant on the ECB as one of their principal developments, including as a result of an outcome in favour of an sources of liquidity.
exit from the European Union.
The Group relies on retail and wholesale deposits to meet a Any further reductions in the long-term or short-term credit ratings considerable portion of its funding.
The level of deposits may of RBSG or of certain of its subsidiaries particularly RBS plc, fluctuate due to factors outside the Groups control, such as a including further downgrades below investment grade, could loss of confidence, increasing competitive pressures for retail adversely affect the Groups issuance capacity in the financial customer deposits or the repatriation of deposits by foreign markets, increase its funding and borrowing costs, require the wholesale depositors, which could result in a significant outflow of Group to replace funding lost due to the downgrade, which may deposits within a short period of time.
include the loss of customer deposits and may limit the Groups access to capital and money markets and trigger additional An inability to grow, or any material decrease in, the Groups collateral or other requirements in derivatives contracts and other deposits could, particularly if accompanied by one of the other secured funding arrangements or the need to amend such factors described above, have a material adverse impact on the arrangements, limit the range of counterparties willing to enter Groups ability to satisfy its liquidity needs.
Increases in the cost into transactions with the Group and its subsidiaries and of retail deposit funding may impact the Groups margins and adversely affect its competitive position, all of which could have a profitability.
material adverse impact on the Groups earnings, cash flow and financial condition.
At 31 December 2015, a simultaneous oneThe market view of bank credit risk has changed radically as a notch long-term and associated short-term downgrade in the result of the financial crisis and banks perceived by the market to credit ratings of RBSG and RBS plc by the three main ratings be riskier have had to issue debt at significantly higher costs.
agencies would have required the Group to post estimated Although conditions have improved, there have been recent additional collateral of 3.7 billion, without taking account of periods where corporate and financial institution counterparties mitigating action by management.
Individual credit ratings of have reduced their credit exposures to banks and other financial RBSG, RBS plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. RBS N. V. institutions, limiting the availability of these sources of funding.
and Ulster Bank Ireland Limited are also important to the Group The ability of the Bank of England to resolve the Group in an when competing in certain markets such as over-the-counter orderly manner may also increase investors perception of risk derivatives.
and hence affect the availability and cost of funding for the Group.
Any uncertainty relating to the credit risk of financial institutions may lead to reductions in levels of interbank lending or may restrict the Groups access to traditional sources of funding or increase the costs or collateral requirements for accessing such funding.
401 Additional information Risk factors continued Although it is difficult to predict with certainty the effect that the The Group has, at times, been required to rely on shorter-term recent regulatory changes, developments and heightened levels and overnight funding with a consequent reduction in overall of public and regulatory scrutiny will have on the Group, the liquidity, and to increase its recourse to liquidity schemes enactment and implementation of legislation and regulations in provided by central banks.
Such schemes require assets to be the UK and the EU, the other parts of Europe in which the Group pledged as collateral.
Changes in asset values or eligibility operates and the US has resulted in increased capital, funding criteria can reduce available assets and consequently available and liquidity requirements, changes in the competitive landscape, liquidity, particularly during periods of stress when access to the changes in other regulatory requirements and increased schemes may be needed most.
The implementation of the UK operating costs, and has impacted, and will continue to impact, ring-fencing regime may also impact the Groups funding strategy product offerings and business models.
Such changes may also and the cost of funding may increase for certain Group entities result in an increased number of regulatory investigations and which will be required to manage their own funding and liquidity proceedings and have increased the risks relating to the Groups strategy, in particular those entities outside the ring-fence which ability to comply with the applicable body of rules and regulations will no longer be able to rely on retail deposit funding.
in the manner and within the time frames required.
Changes in accounting standards or guidance by internal accounting bodies If the Group is unable to raise funds through deposits and or in or in the timing of their implementation, whether mandatory or as the capital markets, its liquidity position could be adversely a result of recommended disclosure relating to the future affected and it might be unable to meet deposit withdrawals on implementation of such standards could also result in the Group demand or at their contractual maturity, to repay borrowings as having to recognise additional liabilities on its balance sheet, or in they mature, to meet its obligations under committed financing further write-downs or impairments.
Any of these developments facilities, to comply with regulatory funding requirements or to including failures to comply with new rules and regulations fund new loans, investments and businesses.
The Group may could have an impact on how the Group conducts its business, its need to liquidate unencumbered assets to meet its liabilities, authorisations and licences, the products and services it offers, including disposals of assets not previously identified for disposal its reputation and the value of its assets, and could have a to reduce its funding commitments.
In a time of reduced liquidity, material adverse effect on its business, funding costs and results the Group may be unable to sell some of its assets, or may need of operations and financial condition.
to sell assets at depressed prices, which in either case could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition Areas in which, and examples of where, governmental policies, and results of operations.
regulatory and accounting changes and increased public and regulatory scrutiny could have an adverse impact some of which The Groups businesses are subject to substantial regulation and could be material on the Group include those set out above as oversight.
Significant regulatory developments and increased well as the following: scrutiny by the Groups key regulators has had and is likely to continue to increase compliance and conduct risks and could amendments to the framework or requirements relating to have a material adverse effect on how the Group conducts its the quality and quantity of regulatory capital to be held by business and on its results of operations and financial condition.
the Group, either on a solo, consolidated or subgroup level, The Group is subject to extensive financial services laws, including amendments to the rules relating to the calculation regulations, corporate governance requirements, administrative of risk-weighted assets and reliance on credit ratings as well actions and policies in each jurisdiction in which it operates.
as tax rules affecting the eligibility of deferred tax assets: Many of these have been introduced or amended recently and new or amended regulations or taxes that reduce profits are subject to further material changes.
Among others, the attributable to shareholders which may diminish, or restrict, adoption of rules relating to the UK ring-fencing regime, the accumulation of the distributable profits or distributable prohibitions on proprietary trading, the entry into force of CRD IV items necessary to make distributions or coupon payments: and the BRRD and certain other measures in the UK, the EU and the design and implementation of national or supranational the US are considerably affecting the regulatory landscape in mandated recovery, resolution or insolvency regimes or the which the Group operates and will operate in the future.
implementation of additional or conflicting loss-absorption Increased regulatory focus in certain areas, including conduct, requirements, including those mandated under MREL or by consumer protection regimes, anti-money laundering and the Financial Stability Boards recommendations on TLAC: antiterrorism laws and regulations, as well as the provisions of the monetary, fiscal, interest rate and other policies of applicable sanctions programmes and ongoing and possible central banks and other governmental or regulatory bodies: future changes in the financial services regulatory landscape further investigations, proceedings or fines either against the including requirements imposed by virtue of the Groups Group in isolation or together with other large financial participation in government or regulator-led initiatives, have institutions with respect to market conduct wrongdoing: resulted in the Group facing greater regulation and scrutiny in the the imposition of government-imposed requirements and or UK, the US and other countries in which it operates.
related fines and sanctions with respect to lending to the UK SME market and larger commercial and corporate entities and residential mortgage lending: 402 Additional information additional rules and regulatory initiatives and review relating The Group is currently implementing a number of significant to customer protection, including the FCAs Treating investment and rationalisation initiatives as part of the Groups IT Customers Fairly regime and increased focus by regulators investment programme.
Should such investment and on how institutions conduct business, particularly with rationalisation initiatives fail to achieve the expected results, it regard to the delivery of fair outcomes for customers and could have a material adverse impact on the Groups operations orderly transparent markets: and its ability to retain or grow its customer business and could the imposition of additional restrictions on the Groups ability require the Group to recognise impairment charges.
to compensate its senior management and other employees The Groups strategic programme to simplify and downsize the and increased responsibility and liability rules applicable to Group with an increased focus on service to its customers senior and key employees: involves significant investments in technology and more efficient regulations relating to, and enforcement of, anti-bribery, antisupport functions intended to contribute to delivering significant money laundering, anti-terrorism or other similar sanctions improvements in the Groups Return on Equity and costtoregimes: income ratio in the longer term as well as improve the resilience, rules relating to foreign ownership, expropriation, control environment, accessibility and product offering of the nationalisation and confiscation of assets: Group.
The Group has an IT transformational budget of around changes to financial reporting standards including 4 billion which excludes IT expenditure and costs relating to the accounting standards and guidance or the timing of their implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime and the Williams & implementation: Glyn separation to be spent from 2015 to 2017.
At 31 December changes to risk aggregation and reporting standards: 2015, 1.2 billion of this budget had already been spent, and the changes to corporate governance requirements, corporate budget for 2016 and 2017 is now higher than previously structures and conduct of business rules: estimated as business plans have developed.
competition reviews and investigations relating to the retail banking sector in the UK, including with respect to SME This investment in the Groups IT capability will be used to further banking and PCAs: simplify and upgrade its IT systems and capabilities to make financial market infrastructure reforms in the EU establishing them more cost-effective and improve controls and procedures, new rules applying to investment services, short selling, enhance the digital services provided to its bank customers and market abuse and investment funds: address system failures which adversely affect its relationship increased attention to competition and innovation in UK with its customers and reputation and may lead to regulatory payment systems following the establishment of the new investigations and redress.
Payments Systems Regulator: restrictions on proprietary trading and similar activities within As with any project of comparable size and complexity, there can a commercial bank and or a group: be no assurance that the Group will be able to implement all of the introduction of, and changes to, taxes, levies or fees the initiatives forming part of its IT investment programme, on applicable to the Groups operations, such as the imposition time or at all, and it may experience unexpected cost increases of a financial transaction tax, changes in tax rates, the and delays.
This is especially true in light of the separation of the introduction of the bank corporation surcharge of 8% which Williams & Glyn business which requires the delivery of a standcame into effect on 1 January 2016 or changes to the alone IT platform for the separated business, and the focus on treatment of carry-forward tax losses that reduce the value meeting this requirement may limit the Groups capacity and of deferred tax assets and require increased payments of resources to implement the planned changes to the Group IT tax: infrastructure while the separation work is ongoing.
Any failure by investigations into facilitation of tax evasion or the creation the Group to realise the benefits of its IT investment programme, of new civil or criminal offences relating thereto: whether on time or at all, could have a material adverse effect on the regulation or endorsement of credit ratings used in the the Groups business, results of operations and its ability to retain EU whether issued by agencies in EU member states or in or grow its customer business.
other countries, such as the US : and other requirements or policies affecting the Groups The Groups operations are highly dependent on its IT systems.
profitability, such as the imposition of onerous compliance A failure of the Groups IT systems could adversely affect its obligations, further restrictions on business growth, product operations and investor and customer confidence and expose the offering, or pricing.
The Groups operations are dependent on the ability to process a Changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in their interpretation or very large number of transactions efficiently and accurately while enforcement, or the implementation of new laws, rules or complying with applicable laws and regulations where it does regulations, including contradictory laws, rules or regulations by business.
The proper functioning of the Groups payment key regulators in different jurisdictions, or failure by the Group to systems, financial and sanctions controls, risk management, comply with such laws, rules and regulations, may have a credit analysis and reporting, accounting, customer service and material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial other IT systems, as well as the communication networks condition and results of operations.
In addition, uncertainty and between its branches and main data processing centres, are lack of international regulatory coordination as enhanced critical to the Groups operations.
supervisory standards are developed and implemented may adversely affect the Groups ability to engage in effective business, capital and risk management planning.
403 Additional information Risk factors continued The Group also takes measures to protect itself from attacks The vulnerabilities of the Groups IT systems are due to their designed to prevent the delivery of critical business processes to complexity, attributable in part to overlapping multiple legacy its customers.
Despite these preventative measures, the Groups systems resulting from the Groups historical acquisitions and computer systems, software, networks and mobile devices, and insufficient investment prior to 2013, creating challenges in those of third parties on whom the Group relies, are vulnerable to recovering from system breakdowns.
IT failures adversely affect cyberattacks, sabotage, unauthorised access, computer viruses, the Groups relationship with its customers and reputation and worms or other malicious code, and other events that have a have lead, and may in the future, lead to regulatory investigations security impact.
The Group experienced system failures in 2012, as a result of which the Group was required to set aside a provision Failure to protect the Groups operations from cyberattacks or to for compensation to customers who suffered losses as a result of continuously review and update current processes in response to the system failure and that resulted in the Group reaching a new threats could result in the loss of customer data or other settlement with the FCA, the PRA and the Central Bank of Ireland sensitive information as well as instances of denial of service for and paying related fines.
The Group experienced a limited the Groups customers.
During 2015, the Group experienced a number of IT failures in 2015 affecting customers, although number of distributed denial of service DDoS attacks, one of improvements introduced since 2012 allowed the Group to which had a temporary impact on some of NatWests web contain the impact of such failures.
The Groups regulators in the services, as well as a smaller number of malware attacks.
The UK are actively surveying progress made by banks in the UK to Bank of England, the FCA and HM Treasury in the UK and modernise, manage and secure their IT infrastructures, in order regulators, in the US and in Europe have identified cybersecurity to prevent future failures affecting customers.
Any critical system as a systemic risk to the financial sector and highlighted the need failure, any prolonged loss of service availability or any material for financial institutions to improve resilience to cyberattacks and breach of data security could cause serious damage to the the Group expects greater regulatory engagement, supervision Groups ability to service its customers, could result in significant and enforcement on cybersecurity in the future.
The Group compensation costs or fines resulting from regulatory participated in the Bank of Englands industry-wide exercise in investigations and could breach regulations under which the 2015 to test how a major firm responds to significant cyberattacks Group operates.
against its critical economic functions.
In particular, failures or breaches resulting in the loss or The outputs of this exercise and other regulatory and industry-led publication of confidential customer data could cause long-term initiatives are being incorporated into the Groups on-going IT damage to the Groups reputation, business and brands, which priorities and improvement measures.
The Group expects to be could undermine its ability to attract and keep customers.
the target of continued attacks in the future and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to prevent all threats.
Any The Group is currently implementing a number of complex failure in the Groups cybersecurity policies, procedures or initiatives, including its strategic programme, the UK ring-fencing capabilities, or cyber-related crime, could lead to the Group regime, the separation of the Williams & Glyn business, the suffering reputational damage and a loss of customers, restructuring of the CIB business and a significant IT investment regulatory investigations or sanctions being imposed and could programme, all which may put further strains on the Groups have a material adverse effect on the Groups results of existing IT systems.
A failure to safely and timely implement one operations, financial condition or prospects.
or several of these initiatives could lead to disruptions of the Groups IT infrastructure and in turn cause long-term damage to The Groups operations entail inherent reputational risk.
the Groups reputation, brands, results of operations and financial Reputational risk, meaning the risk of brand damage and or position.
See The Group is currently implementing a number of financial loss due to a failure to meet stakeholders expectations significant investment and rationalisation initiatives as part of the of the Groups conduct, performance and business profile, is Groups IT investment programme.
Should such investment and inherent in the Groups business.
Stakeholders include rationalisation initiatives fail to achieve the expected results, it customers, investors, rating agencies, employees, suppliers, could have a material adverse impact on the Groups operations governments, politicians, regulators, special interest groups, and its ability to retain or grow its customer business.
consumer groups, media and the general public.
The Group is exposed to cyberattacks and a failure to prevent or defend against such attacks could have a material adverse effect on the Groups operations, results of operations or reputation.
The Group is subject to cybersecurity threats which have regularly targeted financial institutions as well as governments and other institutions and have increased in frequency and severity in recent years.
The Group relies on the effectiveness of its internal policies and associated procedures, infrastructure and capabilities to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information held on its computer systems, networks and mobile devices, and on the computer systems, networks and mobile devices of third parties on whom the Group relies.
404 Additional information Brand damage can be detrimental to the business of the Group in The Groups businesses are also exposed to risk from employee a number of ways, including its ability to build or sustain business misconduct including non-compliance with policies and regulatory relationships with customers, low staff morale, regulatory censure rules, negligence or fraud, any of which could result in regulatory or reduced access to, or an increase in the cost of, funding.
In sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm to the Group.
particular, negative public opinion resulting from the actual or In recent years, a number of multinational financial institutions, perceived manner in which the Group conducts its business including the Group, have suffered material losses due to the activities and operations, the Groups financial performance, actions of employees, including, for example, in connection with ongoing investigations and proceedings and the settlement of the foreign exchange and LIBOR investigations.
It is not always any such investigations and proceedings, IT failures or cyberpossible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions the attacks resulting in the loss or publication of confidential Group takes to prevent and detect this activity may not always be customer data or other sensitive information, the level of direct effective.
and indirect government support, or actual or perceived practices in the banking and financial industry may adversely affect the The Group has implemented a number of policies and allocated Groups ability to keep and attract customers and, in particular, new resources in order to help mitigate against these risks.
The corporate and retail depositors.
Group has also prioritised initiatives to reinforce good conduct in its engagement with the markets in which it operates, together Modern technologies, in particular online social networks and with the development of preventative and detective controls in other broadcast tools which facilitate communication with large order to positively influence behaviour.
audiences in short time frames and with minimal costs, may also significantly enhance and accelerate the impact of damaging The Groups strategic programme is also intended to improve the information and allegations.
Reputational risks may also be Groups control environment.
Nonetheless, no assurance can be increased as a result of the restructuring of the Group to given that the Groups strategy and control framework will be implement its strategic programme and the UK ring-fencing effective and that conduct issues will not have an adverse effect regime.
Although the Group has implemented a Reputational on the Groups results of operations, financial condition or Risk Policy across customer-facing businesses to improve the prospects.
identification, assessment and management of customers, transactions, products and issues which represent a reputational The Group may be adversely impacted if its risk management is risk, the Group cannot ensure that it will be successful in avoiding not effective.
damage to its business from reputational risk, which could result The management of risk is an integral part of all of the Groups in a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial activities.
Risk management comprises the definition and condition, results of operations and prospects.
monitoring of the Groups risk appetite and reporting of the Groups exposure to uncertainty and the consequent adverse The Group is exposed to conduct risk which may adversely effect on profitability or financial condition arising from different impact the Group or its employees and may result in conduct sources of uncertainty and risks as described throughout these having a detrimental impact on the Groups customers or risk factors.
Ineffective risk management may arise from a wide counterparties.
variety of events and behaviours, including lack of transparency In recent years, the Group has sought to refocus its culture on or incomplete risk reporting, unidentified conflicts or misaligned serving the needs of its customers and continues to redesign incentives, lack of accountability control and governance, lack of many of its systems and processes to promote this focus and consistency in risk monitoring and management or insufficient strategy.
However, the Group is exposed to various forms of challenges or assurance processes.
conduct risk in its operations.
These include business and strategic planning that does not consider customers needs, Failure to manage risks effectively could adversely impact the ineffective management and monitoring of products and their Groups reputation or its relationship with its customers, distribution, a culture that is not customer-centric, outsourcing of shareholders or other stakeholders, which in turn could have a customer service and product delivery via third parties that do not significant effect on the Groups business prospects, financial have appropriate levels of control, oversight and culture, the condition and or results of operations.
possibility of alleged mis-selling of financial products or the mishandling of complaints related to the sale of such product, or Risk management is also strongly related to the use of internal poor governance of incentives and rewards.
These risks have stress tests and models.
See The Group relies on valuation, materialised in the past and ineffective management and capital and stress test models to conduct its business, assess its oversight of conduct issues may result in customers being poorly risk exposure and anticipate capital and funding requirements.
or unfairly treated and may in the future lead to further Failure of these models to provide accurate results or accurately remediation and regulatory intervention enforcement.
reflect changes in the micro and macroeconomic environment in which the Group operates could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, capital and results.
405 Additional information Risk factors continued This change has resulted in the accelerated recognition of a 4.2 A failure by the Group to embed a strong risk culture across the billion liability corresponding to the nominal value of all committed organisation could adversely affect the Groups ability to achieve contributions in respect of past service pursuant to the May 2014 its strategic objective.
triennial valuation agreement with the Main Scheme pension In response to weaknesses identified in previous years, the trustee.
Group is currently seeking to embed a strong risk culture within the organisation based on a robust risk appetite and governance The Group has agreed in principle with the Main Scheme pension framework.
A key component of this approach is the three lines of trustee to make an accelerated cash payment of the outstanding defence model designed to identify, manage and mitigate risk committed future contributions 4.2 billion to the Main Scheme across all levels of the organisation.
A failure by any of these the majority of which payment has been provided for as a result three lines to carry out their responsibilities or to effectively of the accounting policy change described above and to bring embed this culture could have a material adverse effect on the forward the next triennial valuation to be as of a date between 31 Group through an inability to achieve its strategic objectives for October 2015 and 31 December 2015.
The single contribution of its customers, employees and wider stakeholders.
4.2 billion is expected to be paid by 31 March 2016 subject to the satisfactory conclusion of discussions with the Main Scheme The Group is subject to pension risks and may be required to pension trustee.
The 2015 triennial valuation is expected to result make additional contributions to cover pension funding deficits in a significant increase in the regular annual contributions in and to restructure its pension schemes as a result of the respect of the ongoing accrual of benefits.
This will have the implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime.
effect of significantly decreasing the amount of any pension The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension surplus that the Group can recognise as a balance sheet asset.
schemes for certain former and current employees.
Pension risk is the risk that the assets of the Groups various defined benefit The next triennial period valuation will therefore take place in Q4 pension schemes do not fully match the timing and amount of the 2018 and the Main Scheme pension trustee has agreed that it schemes liabilities, as a result of which the Group is required or would not seek a new valuation prior to that date, except where a chooses to make additional contributions to address deficits that material change arises.
Notwithstanding this accelerated may emerge.
Risk arises from the schemes because the value of payment and any additional contributions which may be required the asset portfolios may be less than expected and because beforehand as a result of a material change, the Group expects there may be greater than expected increases in the estimated to have to agree to additional contributions, over and above the value of the schemes liabilities and additional future contributions existing committed past service contributions, from Q1 2020 as a to the schemes may be required.
result of the next triennial valuation.
The underlying assumptions used to calculate the triennial valuation deficit as at 31 March The value of pension scheme liabilities varies with changes to 2013 are set out further in note 4 Pensions on page 286. long-term interest rates including prolonged periods of low interest rates as is currently the case, inflation, monetary policy, The cost of such additional contributions could be material and pensionable salaries and the longevity of scheme members, as any additional contributions that are committed to the Main well as changes in applicable legislation.
In particular, as life Scheme following new actuarial valuations would in turn, under expectancies increase, so too will the pension scheme liabilities: RBSs revised accounting policy, trigger the recognition of a as the impact on the pension scheme liabilities due to a one year significant additional liability in the Groups accounts, which in increase in longevity is expected to be 853 million.
In addition, turn could have a material adverse effect on the Groups results as the Group expects to continue to materially reduce the scope of operations, financial position and prospects.
of its operations as part of the implementation of its strategic programme and of the UK ring-fencing regime, pension liabilities In addition, the UK ring-fencing regime will require significant will therefore increase relative to the size of the Group, which changes to the structure of the Groups existing defined benefit may impact the Groups results of operations and capital position.
pension schemes as ring-fenced banks may not be liable for debts to pension schemes that might arise as a result of the Given recent economic and financial market difficulties and failure of another entity of the ring-fenced banks group after 1 volatility, the low interest rate environment and the risk that such January 2026, which could affect assessments of the Groups conditions may occur again over the near and medium term, the schemes deficits, and result in additional contributions being Group has experienced increasing pension deficits and was required.
required to make further contributions following the last triennial valuation of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund, The Group is developing a strategy to meet these requirements, the Groups main defined benefit pension scheme the Main which has been discussed with the PRA and will require the Scheme, which showed that the value of liabilities exceeded the agreement of the pension scheme trustee.
Discussions with the value of assets by 5.6 billion at 31 March 2013, a ratio of 82%.
pension scheme trustee will be influenced by the Groups overall Following the publication of the IASBs exposure draft of ring-fence strategy and its pension funding and investment amendments to IFRIC 14, the Group has revised its pension strategies.
accounting policy for determining whether or not it has an unconditional right to a refund of any surpluses in its employee pension funds.
406 Additional information If agreement is not reached with the pension trustee, alternative The impact of the Groups pension obligations on its results and options less favourable to the Group will need to be developed operations are also dependent on the regulatory environment in to meet the requirements of the pension regulations.
The costs which it operates.
associated with the restructuring of the Groups existing defined There is a risk that changes in prudential regulation, pension benefit pension schemes could be material and could result in regulation and accounting standards, or a lack of coordination higher levels of additional contributions than those described between such sets of rules, may make it more challenging for the above and currently agreed with the pension trustee which could Group to manage its pension obligations resulting in an adverse have a material adverse effect on the Groups results of impact on the Groups CET1 capital.
operations, financial position and prospects.
The Groups business and results of operations may be Pension risk and changes to the Groups funding of its pension adversely affected by increasing competitive pressures and schemes may have a significant impact on the Groups capital technology disruption in the markets in which it operates.
The markets for UK financial services, and the other markets The Groups capital position is influenced by pension risk in within which the Group operates, are very competitive, and several respects: Pillar 1 capital is impacted by the requirement management expects such competition to continue or intensify in that net asset pension balances are to be deduced from capital response to customer behaviour, technological changes and that actuarial gains losses impact reserves and, by including the growth of digital banking, competitor behaviour, extension, CET1 capital: Pillar 2A requirements result in the new entrants to the market including non traditional financial Group being required to carry a capital add-on to mitigate stress services providers such as large retail or technology on the pension fund and finally the Groups target CET1 ratio conglomerates, new lending models such as peer-to-peer incorporates a management buffer over the combined buffer lending and the impact of regulatory actions and other factors.
In requirement which assumes, amongst other risks, a buffer to particular, the emergence of disintermediation in the financial mitigate a deterioration in the Groups pension fund position.
sector resulting from new banking, lending and payment solutions offered by rapidly evolving incumbents, challengers and new The Group believes that the accelerated payment to the Groups entrants, in particular with respect to payment services and Main Scheme pension fund will improve the Groups capital products, and the introduction of disruptive technology may planning and resilience through the period to 2019 and provide impede the Groups ability to grow or retain its market share and the Main Scheme pension trustee with more flexibility over its impact its revenues and profitability, particularly in its key UK investment strategy.
The Group estimates that the accelerated retail banking segment.
Increasingly many of the products and payment will adversely impact the Groups CET1 capital in 2016 services offered by the Group are, and will become, technology by 30 to 40 basis points and reduce the Groups MDA level of intensive and the Groups ability to develop such services has CET1 capital or management buffer capital required for pension become increasingly important to retaining and growing the risk which may trigger MDA requirements and result in mandatory Groups customer business in the UK.
The Groups expectations as to the impact on its capital position of this There can be no certainty that the Groups investment in its IT payment in the near and medium term and of the accounting capability intended to address the material increase in customer impact under its revised accounting policy are based on a use of online and mobile technology for banking will be number of assumptions and estimates, including with respect to successful or that it will allow the Group to continue to grow such the beneficial impact on its Pillar 2A requirements and the timing services in the future.
Certain of the Groups current or future thereof, any of which may prove to be inaccurate including with competitors may have more efficient operations, including better respect to the calculation of the CET1 ratio impact on future IT systems allowing them to implement innovative technologies periods, including as a result of factors outside of the Groups for delivering services to their customers.
Groups competitors may be better able to attract and retain customers and key employees and may have access to lower As a result, if any of these assumptions proves inaccurate, the cost funding and or be able to attract deposits on more Groups capital position may significantly deteriorate and fall favourable terms than the Group.
If the Group is unable to offer below the Groups or Group entities minimum capital competitive, attractive and innovative products that are also requirements and in turn result in increased regulatory profitable, it could lose market share, incur losses on some or all supervision or sanctions, restrictions on discretionary of its activities and lose opportunities for growth.
distributions or loss of investor confidence, which could individually or in aggregate have a material adverse effect on the In addition, recent and future disposals and restructurings by the Groups results of operations, financial prospects or reputation.
Group relating to the implementation of its strategic programme and the UK ring-fencing regime, or required by the Groups regulators, as well as constraints imposed on the Groups ability to compensate its employees at the same level as its competitors, may also have an impact on its ability to compete effectively.
Intensified competition from incumbents, challengers and new entrants in the Groups core markets could lead to greater pressure on the Group to maintain returns and may lead to unsustainable growth decisions.
407 Additional information Risk factors continued The impact of any such developments in the UK will become These and other changes in the Groups competitive environment more significant as the Groups business becomes increasingly could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, concentrated in the UK retail sector.
These and other changes to margins, profitability, financial condition and prospects.
the competitive framework in which the Group operates could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, margins, The Group operates in highly competitive markets that are profitability, financial condition and prospects.
subject to intense scrutiny by the competition authorities and its business and results of operations could be materially affected by As a result of the commercial and regulatory environment in competition rulings and other government measures.
which it operates, the Group may be unable to attract or retain The competitive landscape for banks and other financial senior management including members of the board and other institutions in the UK, the rest of Europe and the US is changing skilled personnel of the appropriate qualification and rapidly.
Recent regulatory and legal changes have and may competence.
The Group may also suffer if it does not maintain continue to result in new market participants and changed good employee relations.
competitive dynamics in certain key areas, such as in retail Implementation of the Groups strategic programme and its future banking in the UK where the introduction of new entrants is being success depend on its ability to attract, retain and remunerate actively encouraged by the UK Government.
The competitive highly skilled and qualified personnel, including senior landscape in the UK is also likely to be affected by the UK management which includes directors and other key Governments implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime and employees, in a highly competitive labour market.
This cannot other customer protection measures introduced by the Banking be guaranteed, particularly in light of heightened regulatory Reform Act 2013.
The implementation of these reforms may oversight of banks and the increasing scrutiny of, and in some result in the consolidation of newly separated businesses or cases restrictions placed upon, employee compensation assets of certain financial institutions with those of other parties arrangements, in particular those of banks in receipt of to realise new synergies or protect their competitive position and Government support such as the Group, which may place the is likely to increase competitive pressures on the Group.
In addition, the market for skilled personnel is increasingly competitive, thereby raising the The UK retail banking sector has been subjected to intense cost of hiring, training and retaining skilled personnel.
scrutiny by the UK competition authorities and by other bodies in recent years, including market reviews conducted by the Certain of the Groups directors as well as members of its Competition & Markets Authority CMA and its predecessor the executive committee and certain other senior managers and Office of Fair Trading regarding SME banking and Personal employees will also be subject to the new responsibility regime Current Accounts PCAs, the Independent Commission on introduced under the Banking Reform Act 2013 which introduces Banking and the Parliamentary Commission on Banking clearer accountability rules for those within the new regime.
These reviews raised significant concerns about the senior managers regime and certification regime take effect on 7 effectiveness of competition in the banking sector.
March 2016, whilst the conduct rules will apply to the wider employee population from 7 March 2017 onwards, with the Although these reviews are ongoing, preliminary findings in the exception of some transitional provisions.
The new regulatory CMAs Retail Banking Market Investigation contemplated regime may contribute to reduce the pool of candidates for key proposing measures primarily intended to make it easier for management and non-executive roles, including non-executive consumers and businesses to compare bank products and directors with the right skills, knowledge and experience, or increase the transparency of price comparison between banks, increase the number of departures of existing employees, given which would, if implemented, impose additional compliance concerns over the allocation of responsibilities introduced by the requirements on the Group and could, in aggregate, adversely new rules.
impact the Groups competitive position, product offering and revenues.
The wholesale banking sector has also been the The Groups evolving strategy has led to the departure of a large subject of recent scrutiny.
In February 2015 the FCA announced number of experienced and capable employees, particularly in that it would be launching a market study to investigate the CIB business.
The restructuring relating to the ongoing competition in investment and corporate banking services.
The implementation of the Groups strategic programme may cause FCA is expected to publish its interim report in early 2016 and its experienced staff members to leave and prospective staff final report in spring 2016. members not to join the Group.
The lack of continuity of senior management and the loss of important personnel coordinating Adverse findings resulting from current or future competition certain or several aspects of the Groups restructuring could have investigations may result in the imposition of reforms or remedies an adverse impact on its implementation.
The failure to attract or which may impact the competitive landscape in which the Group retain a sufficient number of appropriately skilled personnel to operates or result in restrictions on mergers and consolidations manage the complex restructuring required to implement the within the UK financial sector.
Groups strategy could prevent the Group from successfully implementing its strategy and meeting regulatory commitments.
This could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
408 Additional information In addition, many of the Groups employees in the UK, Any further deterioration in economic and financial market continental Europe and other jurisdictions in which the Group conditions or weak economic growth could lead to additional operates are represented by employee representative bodies, impairment charges and write-downs.
Moreover, market volatility including trade unions.
Engagement with its employees and such and illiquidity and the assumptions, judgements and estimates in bodies is important to the Group and a breakdown of these relation to such matters that may change over time and may relationships could adversely affect the Groups business, ultimately not turn out to be accurate make it difficult to value reputation and results.
certain of the Groups exposures.
HM Treasury or UKFI on its behalf may be able to exercise a Valuations in future periods reflecting, among other things, the significant degree of influence over the Group and any further then-prevailing market conditions and changes in the credit offer or sale of its interests may affect the price of securities ratings of certain of the Groups assets may result in significant issued by the Group.
changes in the fair values of the Groups exposures, such as On 6 August 2015, the UK Government made its first sale of credit market exposures, and the value ultimately realised by the RBSG ordinary shares since its original investment in 2009 and Group may be materially different from the current or estimated sold approximately 5.4% of its stake in RBSG.
initial sale, the UK Government exercised its conversion rights under the B Shares on 14 October 2015 which resulted in HM As part of its strategic programme, the Group is executing the Treasury holding 72.88% of the ordinary share capital of RBSG.
run-down or disposal of a number of businesses, assets and The UK Government, through HM Treasury, currently holds portfolios, the most important of which is the divestment of the 72.6% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Group.
The UK William & Glyn business which may be carried out as a trade sale Government has indicated its intention to continue to sell down its or through an IPO.
The disposal of Williams & Glyn could lead shareholding in the Group over the next five years.
Any offers or the Group to recognise further write-downs in the event that the sale, or expectations relating to the timing thereof, of a sale proceeds are less than the carrying value of Williams & Glyn substantial number of ordinary shares by HM Treasury, could in the Groups accounts.
In addition, the Groups interest in the negatively affect prevailing market prices for the outstanding remainder of the businesses and portfolios within the exiting ordinary shares of RBSG and other securities issued by the business may be difficult to sell due to unfavourable market Group and lead to a period of increased price volatility for the conditions for such assets or businesses.
Any of these factors Groups securities.
could require the Group to recognise further significant writedowns and realise increased impairment charges or goodwill In addition, UKFI manages HM Treasurys shareholder impairments, all of which may have a material adverse effect on relationship with the Group and, although HM Treasury has its financial condition, results of operations and capital ratios.
indicated that it intends to respect the commercial decisions of the Group and that the Group will continue to have its own The financial performance of the Group has been, and may independent board of directors and management team continue to be, materially affected by customer and counterparty determining its own strategy, should HM Treasurys intentions credit quality and deterioration in credit quality could arise due to change, its position as a majority shareholder and UKFIs prevailing economic and market conditions and legal and position as manager of this shareholding means that HM regulatory developments.
Treasury or UKFI might be able to exercise a significant degree The Group has exposure to many different industries, customers of influence over, among other things, the election of directors and counterparties, and risks arising from actual or perceived and appointment of senior management, dividend policy, changes in credit quality and the recoverability of monies due remuneration policy or the conduct of the Groups operations.
from borrowers and other counterparties are inherent in a wide The manner in which HM Treasury or UKFI exercises HM range of the Groups businesses.
Treasurys rights as majority shareholder could give rise to conflicts between the interests of HM Treasury and the interests In particular, the Group has significant exposure to certain of other shareholders.
The Board has a duty to promote the individual customers and other counterparties in weaker business success of the Group for the benefit of its members as a whole.
sectors and geographic markets and also has concentrated country exposure in the UK, the US and across the rest of The Groups earnings and financial condition have been, and its Europe principally Germany, the Netherlands, Ireland and future earnings and financial condition may continue to be, France.
At 31 December 2015, credit risk assets in the UK were materially affected by depressed asset valuations resulting from 311.4 billion, in the US were 24.6 billion and in Western poor market conditions.
Europe excluding the UK were 84.5 billion : and within certain The Groups businesses are inherently subject to risks in financial business sectors, namely personal finance, financial institutions, markets and in the wider economy, including changes in, and commercial real estate, shipping and the oil and gas sector at 31 increased volatility of, interest rates, inflation rates, credit December 2015, personal finance lending amounted to 155.3 spreads, foreign exchange rates and commodity, equity, bond billion, lending to financial institutions was 73.1 billion, and property prices.
In previous years, severe market events commercial real estate lending was 27.6 billion, lending to the resulted in the Group recording large write-downs on its credit oil and gas sector was 3.5 billion and shipping was 7.1 billion.
409 Additional information Risk factors continued Concerns about, or a default by, one financial institution could Provisions for default on loans have decreased in recent years in lead to significant liquidity problems and losses or defaults by line with the perceived reduction in risks relating to these other financial institutions, as the commercial and financial customers, counterparties or assets classes.
soundness of many financial institutions may be closely related as a result of credit, trading, clearing and other relationships.
If the risk profile of these loans were to increase, including as a Even the perceived lack of creditworthiness of, or questions result of a degradation of economic or market conditions, this about, a counterparty may lead to market-wide liquidity problems could result in an increase in the cost of risk and the Group may and losses for, or defaults by, the Group.
be required to make additional provisions, which in turn would reduce earnings and impact the Groups profitability.
This systemic risk may also adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, The Groups lending strategy or processes may also fail to banks, securities firms and exchanges with which the Group identify or anticipate weaknesses or risks in a particular sector, interacts on a daily basis.
market or borrower category, which may result in an increase in default rates, which may, in turn, impact the Groups profitability.
The effectiveness of recent prudential reforms designed to contain systemic risk in the EU and the UK is yet to be tested.
In addition, as the Group implements its new strategy and Counterparty risk within the financial system or failures of the withdraws from many geographic markets and continues to Groups financial counterparties could have a material adverse materially scale down its international activities, the Groups effect on the Groups access to liquidity or could result in losses relative exposure to the UK and certain sectors and asset classes which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups in the UK will increase significantly as its business becomes more financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
In particular, in the UK the Group is at risk from volatility in property prices in both the residential and The trends and risks affecting borrower and counterparty credit commercial sectors.
With UK home loans representing the most quality have caused, and in the future may cause, the Group to significant portion of the Groups total loans and advances to the experience further and accelerated impairment charges, retail sector, the Group has a large exposure to adverse increased repurchase demands, higher costs, additional writedevelopments in the UK retail property sector.
As a result, a fall in downs and losses for the Group and an inability to engage in house prices, particularly in London and the South East of the routine funding transactions.
UK, would be likely to lead to higher impairment and negative capital impact as loss given default rate increases.
In addition, The Group is committed to executing the run-down and sale of reduced affordability of residential and commercial property in the certain businesses, portfolios and assets forming part of the UK, for example, as a result of higher interest rates or increased businesses and activities being exited by the Group.
Failure by unemployment, could also lead to higher impairment.
the Group to do so on commercially favourable terms could have a material adverse effect on the Groups operations, operating The credit quality of the Groups borrowers and its other results, financial position and reputation.
counterparties is impacted by prevailing economic and market The Groups ability to dispose of the remaining businesses, conditions and by the legal and regulatory landscape in their portfolios and assets forming part of the businesses and activities respective markets.
Credit quality has improved in certain of the being exited by the Group and the price achieved for such Groups core markets, in particular the UK and Ireland, as these disposals will be dependent on prevailing economic and market economies have improved.
However, a further deterioration in conditions, which remain volatile.
As a result, there is no economic and market conditions or changes to legal or regulatory assurance that the Group will be able to sell, exit or run down landscapes could worsen borrower and counterparty credit these businesses, portfolios or assets either on favourable quality and also impact the Groups ability to enforce contractual economic terms to the Group or at all or that it may do so within security rights.
In addition, the Groups credit risk is exacerbated the intended timetable.
Material tax or other contingent liabilities when the collateral it holds cannot be realised as a result of could arise on the disposal or run-down of assets or businesses market conditions or regulatory intervention or is liquidated at and there is no assurance that any conditions precedent agreed prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or will be satisfied, or consents and approvals required will be derivative exposure that is due to the Group, which is most likely obtained in a timely manner or at all.
The Group may be exposed to occur during periods of illiquidity and depressed asset to deteriorations in the businesses, portfolios or assets being sold valuations, such as those experienced in recent years.
between the announcement of the disposal and its completion, which period may span many months.
This has particularly been the case with respect to large parts of the Groups commercial real estate portfolio.
Any such In addition, the Group may be exposed to certain risks, including deteriorations in the Groups recoveries on defaulting loans could risks arising out of ongoing liabilities and obligations, breaches of have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and covenants, representations and warranties, indemnity claims, financial condition.
transitional services arrangements and redundancy or other transaction-related costs, and counterparty risk in respect of buyers of assets being sold.
410 Additional information The occurrence of any of the risks described above could have a The Group also uses valuation models that rely on market data material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of inputs.
If incorrect market data is input into a valuation model, it operations, financial condition and capital position and may result in incorrect valuations or valuations different to those consequently may have the potential to impact the competitive which were predicted and used by the Group in its forecasts or position of part or all of the Groups business.
Internal stress test models may also rely on different, less severe, assumptions or take into account different The value or effectiveness of any credit protection that the Group data points than those defined by the Groups regulators.
The has purchased depends on the value of the underlying assets Group could face adverse consequences as a result of decisions and the financial condition of the insurers and counterparties.
which may lead to actions by management based on models that The Group has some remaining credit exposure arising from are poorly developed, implemented or used, or as a result of the over-the-counter derivative contracts, mainly credit default swaps modelled outcome being misunderstood or such information CDSs, and other credit derivatives, each of which are carried being used for purposes for which it was not designed.
arising from the use of models could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and or results The fair value of these CDSs, as well as the Groups exposure to of operations, minimum capital requirements and reputation.
the risk of default by the underlying counterparties, depends on the valuation and the perceived credit risk of the instrument The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting against which protection has been bought.
Many market policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation counterparties have been adversely affected by their exposure to of its financial statements.
Its results in future periods may be residential mortgage-linked and corporate credit products, affected by changes to applicable accounting rules and whether synthetic or otherwise, and their actual and perceived standards.
If the financial condition The preparation of financial statements requires management to of these counterparties or their actual or perceived make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the creditworthiness deteriorates, the Group may record further credit reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
valuation adjustments on the credit protection bought from these Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, results counterparties under the CDSs.
The Group also recognises any reported in future periods may reflect amounts which differ from fluctuations in the fair value of other credit derivatives.
Estimates, judgements and assumptions take adjustments or fair value changes may have a material adverse into account historical experience and other factors, including impact on the Groups financial condition and results of expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable operations.
The accounting policies deemed critical to the Groups results and financial position, based upon The Group relies on valuation, capital and stress test models to materiality and significant judgements and estimates, include conduct its business, assess its risk exposure and anticipate pensions, goodwill, provisions for liabilities, deferred tax, loan capital and funding requirements.
Failure of these models to impairment provisions, fair value of financial instruments, which provide accurate results or accurately reflect changes in the are discussed in detail in Critical accounting policies and key micro-and macroeconomic environment in which the Group sources of estimation uncertainty on page 276.
In addition, operates could have a material adverse effect on the Groups further development of standards and interpretations under IFRS business, capital and results.
could also significantly impact the financial results, condition and Given the complexity of the Groups business, strategy and prospects of the Group.
IFRS and Interpretations that have been capital requirements, the Group relies on analytical models to issued by the International Accounting Standards Board the manage its business, assess the value of its assets and its risk IASB but which have not yet been adopted by the Group are exposure and anticipate capital and funding requirements, discussed in Accounting developments on page 279. including with stress testing.
The Groups valuation, capital and In July 2014, the IASB published a new accounting standard for stress test models and the parameters and assumptions on financial instruments IFRS 9 effective for annual periods which they are based, need to be constantly updated to ensure beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
It introduces a new their accuracy.
Failure of these models to accurately reflect framework for the recognition and measurement of credit changes in the environment in which the Group operates or the impairment based on expected credit losses, rather than the failure to properly input any such changes could have an adverse incurred loss model currently applied under IAS 39.
The inclusion impact on the modelled results or could fail to accurately capture of loss allowances with respect to all financial assets will tend to the risk profile of the Groups financial instruments.
Some of the result in an increase in overall impairment balances when analytical models used by the Group are predictive in nature.
The compared with the existing basis of measurement under IAS 39. use of predictive models has inherent risks and may incorrectly forecast future behaviour, leading to flawed decision making and potential losses.
411 Additional information Risk factors continued In addition, the PRA is currently consulting on a new framework The valuation of financial instruments, including derivatives, requiring financial institutions to ensure the continuity of critical measured at fair value can be subjective, in particular where shared services provided by entities within the group or external models are used which include unobservable inputs.
Generally, providers to facilitate recovery action, orderly resolution and to establish the fair value of these instruments, the Group relies post-resolution restructuring, which will apply from 1 January on quoted market prices or, where the market for a financial 2019. instrument is not sufficiently active, internal valuation models that utilise observable market data.
In certain circumstances, the data The application of such rules to the Group may require the Group for individual financial instruments or classes of financial to restructure certain of its activities or reorganise the legal instruments utilised by such valuation models may not be structure of its operations, may limit the Groups ability to available or may become unavailable due to prevailing market outsource certain functions and or may result in increased costs conditions.
In such circumstances, the Groups internal valuation resulting from the requirement to ensure the financial and models require the Group to make assumptions, judgements and operational resilience and independent governance of such estimates to establish fair value, which are complex and often critical services.
Such rules will need to be implemented relate to matters that are inherently uncertain.
Resulting changes consistently with the UK ring-fencing regime.
in the fair values of the financial instruments has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on the Groups The BRRD requires national resolution funds to raise ex ante earnings, financial condition and capital position.
contributions on banks and investment firms in proportion to their liabilities and risk profiles and allow them to raise additional ex The Group and its subsidiaries are subject to a new and evolving post funding contributions in the event the ex ante contributions framework on recovery and resolution, the impact of which do not cover the losses, costs or other expenses incurred by use remains uncertain, and which may result in additional compliance of the resolution fund.
Although the UK government indicated that challenges and costs.
it would consider using receipts from the UK bank levy to meet In the EU, the UK and the US, regulators have implemented or the ex ante and ex post funding requirements, the Group may be are in the process of implementing recovery and resolution required to make additional contributions in the future.
In addition, regimes designed to prevent the failure of financial institutions Group entities in countries subject to the European banking union and resolution tools to ensure the timely and orderly resolution of are required to pay supervisory fees towards the funding of the financial institutions.
These initiatives are coupled with a broader SSM as well as contributions to the single resolution fund.
set of initiatives to improve the resilience of financial institutions and reduce systemic risk, including the UK ring-fencing regime, The new recovery and resolution regime implementing the BRRD the introduction of certain requirements and powers under CRD in the UK replaces the previous regime and has imposed and is IV, including the rules relating to MDA, and certain of the expected to impose in the near-to medium-term future, additional measures introduced under the BRRD which came into force on compliance and reporting obligations on the Group which may 1 January 2015, including the requirements relating to MREL.
result in increased costs, including as a result of the Groups The tools and powers introduced under the BBRD include mandatory participation in resolution funds, and heightened preparatory and preventive measures, early supervisory compliance risks and the Group may not be in a position to intervention powers and resolution tools.
In addition, banks comply with all such requirements within the prescribed deadlines headquartered in countries which are members of the eurozone or at all.
The implementation of this new regime has required are now subject to the European banking union framework.
In and will continue to require the Group to work with its regulators November 2014, the ECB assumed direct supervisory towards putting in place adequate resolution plans, the outcome responsibility for RBS NV and Ulster Bank Ireland Limited under of which may impact the Groups operations or structure.
the Single Supervisory Mechanism SSM.
As a result of the above, there remains uncertainty as to how the relevant The Group may become subject to the application of stabilisation resolution regimes in force in the UK, the eurozone and other or resolution powers in certain significant stress situations, which jurisdictions, would interact in the event of a resolution of the may result in various actions being taken in relation to the Group Group.
and any securities of the Group, including the write-off, writedown or conversion of the Groups securities.
In the UK, the BRRD came into effect in January 2015, subject to In the context of the recovery and resolution framework set out certain secondary rules being finalised by the European above, as the parent company of a UK bank, RBSG is subject to authorities, and therefore the requirements to which the Group is the Special Resolution Regime under the Banking Act 2009, subject may continue to evolve to ensure compliance with these that gives wide powers to HM Treasury, the Bank of England, the rules or following the publication of review reports produced by PRA and the FCA in circumstances where a UK bank has the European Parliament and the Council of the EU relating to encountered or is likely to encounter financial difficulties, such certain topics set out by the BRRD.
Such further amendments to that it is assessed as failing or likely to fail.
the BRRD or the implementing rules in the EU may also be necessary to ensure continued consistency with the FSB recommendations on resolution regimes and resolution planning for GSIBs, in particular with respect to TLAC requirements.
412 Additional information The Special Resolution Regime under the Banking Act 2009, as Where the conditions for resolution exist and it is determined that amended to implement the relevant provisions of the BRRD in a stabilisation power may be exercised, the Bank of England may the UK from 1 January 2015, includes powers to a transfer all or use the bail-in tool in combination with other resolution tools some of the securities issued by a UK bank or its parent, or all or under the Banking Act 2009 to, among other things, cancel or some of the property, rights and liabilities of a UK bank or its reduce all or a portion of the principal amount of, or interest on, parent, to a commercial purchaser or, transfer of the bank into certain unsecured liabilities of a failing financial institution and or temporary public ownership, or, in the case of property, rights or convert certain debt claims into another security, including liabilities, to a bridge bank an entity owned by the Bank of ordinary shares of the surviving entity.
In addition, the Bank of England : b together with another resolution tool only, transfer England may use the bail-in tool to, among other things, replace impaired or problem assets to one or more publicly owned asset or substitute the issuer as obligor in respect of debt instruments, management vehicles: c override any default provisions, modify the terms of debt instruments including altering the contracts or other agreements, including provisions that would maturity if any and or the amount of interest payable and or otherwise allow a party to terminate a contract or accelerate the imposing a temporary suspension on payments and discontinue payment of an obligation: d commence certain insolvency the listing and admission to trading of financial instruments.
The procedures in relation to a UK bank: and e override, vary or exercise of the bail-in tool will be determined by the Bank of impose contractual obligations, for reasonable consideration, England which will have discretion to determine whether the between a UK bank or its parent and its group undertakings institution has reached a point of non-viability or whether the including undertakings which have ceased to be members of the conditions for resolution are met, by application of the relevant group, in order to enable any transferee or successor bank of provisions of the Banking Act 2009, and involves decisions being the UK bank to operate effectively.
Where stabilisation options taken by the PRA and the Bank of England, in consultation with are used under a or b above which rely on the use of public the FCA and HM Treasury.
As a result, it will be difficult to predict funds, the option can only be used once there has been a when, if at all, the exercise of the bail-in power may occur.
contribution to loss absorption and recapitalisation of at least 8% of the total liabilities of the institution under resolution.
The potential impact of these powers and their prospective use may include increased volatility in the market price of shares and In addition, among the changes introduced by the Banking other securities issued by the Group, as well as increased Reform Act 2013 and amendments made subsequently to difficulties in issuing securities in the capital markets and implement the relevant provisions of the BRRD, the Banking Act increased costs of raising such funds.
If these powers were to be 2009 was amended to insert a bail-in power as part of the powers exercised or there is an increased risk of exercise in respect of available to the UK resolution authority.
The bail-in power the Group or any entity within the Group such exercise could includes both a capital instruments write-down and conversion result in a material adverse effect on the rights or interests of power applicable to Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments and triggered at shareholders which would likely be extinguished or very heavily the point of non-viability of a financial institution and a bail-in tool diluted.
applicable to eligible liabilities including the senior unsecured debt securities issued by the Group and available in resolution.
Holders of debt securities which may include holders of senior unsecured debt, would see the conversion of part or all of their The capital instruments write-down and conversion power may claims into equity or written down in part or written off entirely.
In be exercised independently of, or in combination with, the accordance with the rules of the Special Resolution Regime, the exercise of a resolution tool other than the bail-in tool, which losses imposed on holders of equity and debt instruments would be used instead of the capital instruments write-down and through the exercise of bail-in powers would be subject to the no conversion power, and it allows resolution authorities to cancel creditor worse off safeguard, which requires losses not to all or a portion of the principal amount of capital instruments exceed those which would be realised in insolvency.
and or convert such capital instruments into common equity Tier 1 instruments when an institution is no longer viable.
The point of In the UK and in other jurisdictions, the Group is responsible for non-viability for such purposes is the point at which the Bank of contributing to compensation schemes in respect of banks and England or the PRA determines that the institution meets the other authorised financial services firms that are unable to meet conditions for entry into the Special Resolution Regime as their obligations to customers.
defined under the Banking Act 2009 or will no longer be viable In the UK, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS unless the relevant capital instruments are written down or was established under the FSMA and is the UKs statutory fund extraordinary public support is provided, and without such of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms.
support the appropriate authority determines that the institution would no longer be viable.
The FSCS can pay compensation to customers if a firm is unable, or likely to be unable, to pay claims against it and may be required to make payments either in connection with the exercise of a stabilisation power or in exercise of the bank insolvency procedures under the Banking Act 2009.
413 Additional information Risk factors continued Recent changes in the tax legislation in the UK are likely to result The FSCS is funded by levies on firms authorised by the FCA, in increased tax payments by the Group and may impact the including the Group.
In the event that the FSCS raises funds from recoverability of certain deferred tax assets recognised by the the authorised firms, raises those funds more frequently or Group.
significantly increases the levies to be paid by such firms, the In accordance with IFRS, the Group has recognised deferred tax associated costs to the Group may have an adverse impact on its assets on losses available to relieve future profits from tax only to results of operations and financial condition.
the extent it is probable that they will be recovered.
The deferred tax assets are quantified on the basis of current tax legislation To the extent that other jurisdictions where the Group operates and accounting standards and are subject to change in respect of have introduced or plan to introduce similar compensation, the future rates of tax or the rules for computing taxable profits contributory or reimbursement schemes, the Group may make and offsetting allowable losses.
further provisions and may incur additional costs and liabilities, which may have an adverse impact on its financial condition and The Finance Act 2015 included new restrictions on the use of results of operations.
certain brought forward tax losses of banking companies to 50% of relevant profits from 1 April 2015, which has impacted the The Groups results could be adversely affected in the event of extent to which the Group is able to recognise deferred tax goodwill impairment.
assets and has been reflected in its year-end accounts.
At 31 The Group capitalises goodwill, which is calculated as the excess December 2015, the Group recognised a net deferred tax asset of the cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the taking account of the Finance Act 2015 changes of 2.6 billion.
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Failure to generate sufficient future taxable profits or further Acquired goodwill is recognised initially at cost and subsequently changes in tax legislation including rates of tax or accounting at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
As required by standards may reduce the recoverable amount of the recognised IFRS, the Group tests goodwill for impairment annually, or more deferred tax assets.
Further changes to the treatment of deferred frequently when events or circumstances indicate that it might be tax assets may impact the Groups capital, for example by impaired.
An impairment test involves comparing the recoverable reducing further the Groups ability to recognise deferred tax amount the higher of the value in use and fair value less cost to assets.
Further, the new 8% tax surcharge which applies to sell of an individual cash generating unit with its carrying value.
banking companies from 1 January 2016 cannot be offset by brought forward tax losses arising before this time, or by any tax At 31 December 2015, the Group carried goodwill of 5.6 billion losses arising in non-banking companies within the Group.
In on its balance sheet, taking into account an impairment charge of addition, the implementation of the rules relating to the UK ring- 498 million in respect of Private Banking in Q4 2015 which was fencing regime and the resulting restructuring of the Group may made in light of a number of factors, including a reduction in further restrict the Groups ability to recognise tax deferred tax anticipated future profitability due to the continuing low interest assets in respect of brought forward losses.
rate environment, a higher tax rate, margin pressure and higher capital allocations.
The value in use and fair value of the Groups cash-generating units are affected by market conditions and the performance of the economies in which the Group operates.
Where the Group is required to recognise a goodwill impairment, it is recorded in the Groups income statement, but it has no effect on the Groups regulatory capital position.
Further impairments of the Groups goodwill could have an adverse effect on the Groups results and financial condition.
