36 Strategic report Risk management RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk management Our risk strategy supports our ambition as a focused general insurer.
By leveraging expertise in risk selection we aim to protect customers and maximise risk-adjusted returns for shareholders.
Our risk management approach How RSA embeds a culture of risk Proactive response Our risk strategy supports the management throughout the business Putting the customer first execution of the wider business RSA supports a healthy approach to Whilst we design our policies and strategy.
Risk appetite and tolerances risk management by integrating risk processes to avoid security breaches, establish the principles through which management principles throughout with the evolving cyber risk landscape we operate, enabling us to retain only the business and reinforcing its role it is important that we remain alert risks residing within our core areas of as a business enabler.
Risk management and prepared to respond if incidents expertise.
We use a risk and control principles are embedded within do occur.
framework to ensure that risks are performance management for all During 2015, a data storage device appropriately managed, mitigated or employees across the Group regardless went missing from an accessavoided in-line with our risk appetite.
of function, who all share a joint controlled data server room, but our responsibility to effectively manage The Groups risk appetite sets the proactive response ensured affected business risk.
We have also introduced overarching approach to risk, as well parties were quickly notified with no a cultural health index to help Business as more granular tolerances within customers suffering a financial loss.
Leaders spot early signs of cultural risk our insurance portfolios.
This supports within the business.
In reacting to this event we rapidly our goals of providing customers with engaged a multi-disciplined team products that protect them from At RSA we ensure risk management is of experts, including the Regional risk and uncertainty, with those risks fully integrated throughout the Group Executive Team, business partners collectively managed to maximise using a three lines of defence model.
and compliance and communications risk-adjusted returns to our professionals, as well as all relevant The first line of defence represents the shareholders.
regulatory bodies, to ensure that the business as a whole, operating within Our risk appetite continues to evolve situation was dealt with efficiently a robust control environment, designed in line with changing risk, regulatory and effectively.
to be effective in managing risks and economic environments, with independent of the second and third Whilst we continue to enhance our a recent focus on preparations for lines.
This first line is a key element control framework to avoid incidents the Solvency II regime, which launched and includes control testing performed such as this it is reassuring to know on 1 January 2016. by objective business experts.
that we have effective response The Board retains ultimate The second line includes the risk processes in place if events do occur responsibility for the risk appetite management and compliance functions and that customers suffered no and for maintaining a robust risk and has responsibility for monitoring financial loss as a result of this incident.
management system via the Board and assuring first line activities.
Risk Committee, supported by the The third line includes the independent Chief Risk Officer.
Audit function, including the Group Audit Committee and Internal Audit.
This line conducts periodic reviews of the first and second lines, providing a further review of the Groups risk and control environment.
S E E T E T T I I T M E P P M A O K S C I R E K R T U S E T L S I U. R C 3 K L S I R A D E N B M O E I E Y C G N G E E E F T E R A D R F T O S E N K I L S S T E I S C R 4 R O I. T N F E M D S L O I. N 2 N E I O T F O D R E F A E N G Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Strategic report Risk management RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37 Understanding the risk Governance structure: Framework activities: management framework The Board is ultimately responsible 1.
Board sets strategy The risk management framework is for ensuring that RSA operates an The risk management framework integral to our system of governance effective system of risk management, operates within the context of the and incorporates both the risk which is monitored via the Board Risk business strategy, set by the Board management system and the internal Committee, further detail on pages and incorporated in to the Group control system, discussed further 57-58 in turn supported by regional risk and regional operational plans on page 46. and control committees attended by senior leaders and risk management 2.
Set risk strategy professionals in each of our core regions.
The risk strategy reflects the business strategy of developing a focused, stronger and better general insurer and defines the over-arching risk principles to support business goals 3.
Set risk appetite Risk management framework Risk appetite statements and tolerances enable the business to convert the strategic principles into well-defined and well-articulated risk limits.
Detailed risk policies then set out the required processes and controls that the business functions are required to follow to deliver the operational plan within these limits.
Monitor against risk appetite Risks are monitored and controlled by the business in line with risk policies, with oversight provided by the second GROUP and third lines of defence.
Risks identified outside of appetite BOARD are raised at regional risk and control committees and action plans agreed.
Further escalation of risks to local Boards, Executive management and the Group Board will follow, as required.
Solvency capital modelling The overall assessment of the Groups risk profile is used to inform the Internal Solvency Capital Model, which calculates our Solvency Capital Requirement SCR, as part of the Groups Own Risk Solvency Group Board Assessment ORSA.
The Internal Governance structure Solvency Capital Model is run on a Framework activities regular basis throughout the year Three lines of defence with outputs sense-checked to ensure that they provide a robust and reliable basis on which to make key business decisions.
Outputs from the model are reported to the Board and where relevant amendments are made to fine-tune the Groups operational plans.
C A E Y I O G N N E E S G C T T O N I A A N A R R G P T U R P S S E S E V S A I T E T & I W E T W S E E I D V E R R A T O N E E B D. E N 1 E T P E T D I N I M G E C N N I M E L F L O E E D D C F O O E K M N I S L L I A D T R R I I H P T D A C R Y A C N O E B V L O S. 5 38 Strategic report Risk management RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk management continued Key risks and mitigants Key risk and exposures SII SCR % Key mitigants and controls Commentary Catastrophe Risk 12% Reinsurance is used to mitigate The winter windstorms, Desmond, This is the risk presented the net impact of catastrophe Eva and Frank represented by large natural disasters.
risks to RSA and our programme significant catastrophes in the The largest catastrophe risks is designed to cover at least 1 in 200 year but were well covered by that we are exposed to are year events our reinsurance programme Northern European windstorms Reinsurance counterparty credit The disposal of our Latin American and Canadian and Chilean risk exposures are reviewed operations will remove our earthquakes.
regularly to ensure they remain exposure to Chilean earthquakes within appetite post completion Reserving Risk Reserving Reserves are set by the Group Reserve estimates involve an 1 Represents the risk that the ex-Legacy Reserving Committee, attendees inherent level of uncertainty Groups estimates of future 13% at which include the Group Chief The Group expects overall positive claims will be insufficient.
The Actuary, the CRO, CFO and CEO 1 run-off of reserves at around one Legacy 11% risk is largest for longer-tailed Additionally the Group has percent of Net Earned Premium, lines of business such as the implemented a comprehensive subject to volatility in any UK Legacy portfolio, including reserve assurance programme to given year asbestos and elements of our provide independent verification Personal Accident products of 80% of gross reserves by value in Sweden Underwriting and Claims Risk 19% Underwriting and claims activities As part of the Groups Focused, This is the risk that underwritten are governed by well-defined risk Stronger, Better strategy stricter business is less profitable than appetite statements, which are underwriting requirements have planned due to insufficient monitored quarterly via regional been applied to a number of pricing or claims case reserving.
portfolio reviews underwriting portfolios aimed Key exposures arise from at increasingly profitability Claims case reserves are prudently larger portfolios operating in set in line with policy requirements competitive markets, where Extensive control validation claim trends are slow to emerge, activities performed with additional such as UK commercial or Marine assurance by the second line Market, Credit and Currency Risk Market and Assets in the Insurance Investment RSA takes a relatively conservative The risks to our Insurance Credit 12% Fund are well-matched with approach to the investment Investments Fund presented by insurance liabilities to hedge portfolio, favouring a high quality Currency 3% movements in macro-economic volatility fixed-income dominated portfolio variables, such as widening credit to protect capital for both Market Risk Policy and associated spreads, declining Bond yields policyholders and shareholders Control Framework ensure Group or currency fluctuations operates within risk appetite During 2015 RSA has completed Pension Risk 23% Funding Assets well matched These are risks associated with to liabilities in the pension a triennial valuation with the pension trustees our Defined Benefit Pension programme, including use Scheme also market related.
of swap arrangements Part of the settlement involved The largest exposures are to a fide-risking of the pension fund equity prices and credit spreads, assets, reducing the volatility however, this is partly offset in our capital requirement by movements in the Insurance RSA continues to explore options Investment Fund to further fide-risk the pension fund Operational Risk 7% Comprehensive policies for IT, The Group transformation These risks relate to customer financial crime, regulatory programme has made positive and or reputational damage compliance etc progress during the year arising from operational failures, Operational change, such as Group A particularly cautious approach such as IT system failure transformation programme is taken to all IT change, including monitored by additional sunsetting of legacy systems governance and assurance activities Total 100% Note: 1.
Legacy includes asbestos, disease and abuse.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Strategic report Risk management RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 Solvency II and Solvency Capital In the coming years Solvency II will Requirement SCR continue to develop and inform the Quantifying risks Solvency II is a new EU-wide insurance way the Group manages risk and capital.
The table on the left details regulatory regime relating principally to In 2017 the Group will, for the first the proportion each risk type how insurers manage capital to mitigate time, report its Solvency and Financial contributes to our total Solvency II the risk of insolvency.
Originally adopted Condition Reports SFCR, which will Capital Requirement SCR please by the European Parliament and Council provide a standardised disclosure of read Solvency II and solvency in 2009, the Solvency II Directive performance, risk management and capital requirement for more became effective on 1 January 2016. capital position of insurers.
information on the new regime.
Consistent with our strategy One of the key aims of Solvency II is Future and emerging risks of focusing on risks within our to introduce a harmonised prudential In addition to those risks that inform core area of expertise, our SCR is framework for insurers promoting our capital requirements the Group primarily comprised of insurance transparency, comparability and constantly considers the broader risk related risks.
These include higher competitiveness amongst European landscape, including new and emerging than expected underwriting losses, insurers.
risks and how they may impact large retained catastrophe losses, the business, our customers and The Directive has three pillars that such as flooding or earthquake, shareholders.
One such area, that we have impacted how RSA manages and deterioration in our stock of have been focusing on recently is the risk and how it reports to regulators, reserves for future claims.
threat posed by cyber attacks.
During policyholders and shareholders: Our investment strategy is 2015 we performed a deep-dive Pillar I relates to the quantitative intentionally conservative relative assessment of the impact a cyberrequirements and introduces a riskto the industry to minimise market attack would have on the UK power based methodology to calculating the risks to both customers and distribution network and shared the Groups Solvency Capital Requirement shareholders.
However, we still results with the PRA.
Insurers are required to calculate look for opportunities to capture involved interviews with various the level of capital required based on additional return from less liquid industry specialists both internally and their unique risk profile.
For RSA this investment-grade assets, where the externally and led to an assessment is calculated using our own Internal cashflow profile can be matched of the impact for the UK power network Model that was approved by the with that of our liabilities, this is and RSA as a company.
The assessment regulator in December 2015. especially relevant for our longer tail included: liabilities.
For more information on Pillar II incorporates qualitative Identifying sources of both primary our market risks please refer to the governance requirements, including such as damage and secondary financial statements and supporting the way the risk management function such as business interruption losses notes on page 116. operates within the business and which could arise from an incident how key systems and controls are Another key element of our SCR is A detailed review of policies and documented and reviewed.
risk relating to our defined benefit assessment of RSAs potential corporate pension scheme, which Pillar III relates to enhanced and exposure is closed to new members.
While standardised disclosure requirements, Assessment of the mitigating actions the scheme is well funded 95% including increased transparency the Group has in place, including following latest triennial review and of the risk strategy and risk appetite reinsurance covers.
in an accounting surplus, under the of the business.
rules of Solvency II capital is held As well as broadening our appreciation RSA has been preparing for the for a 1 in 200 year adverse event, of the risk landscape and potential introduction of the Solvency II regime which increases the level of capital threat of emerging risks, this and since it was announced in 2009 to required against the scheme.
other deep-dive assessments are ensure we were ready for the change For more information on the presented to the Board to help inform and able to respond to its requirements.
pension scheme, see note 38 and refine the Groups risk strategy of the financial statements.
In this report you can see some of the ways it has impacted the business.
For Outlook for 2016 example, the way we have presented During 2016 the risk team will continue the Groups Key risks and Mitigants to work with the business to streamline has been updated to demonstrate how control processes and increase our risk profile informs and aligns to our efficiency.
They will also focus on capital requirements SCR.
We have also monitoring market risks including the updated our Key Performance Indicators impact of inflation shocks and IT risks on pages 22-23 to reflect the importance and controls.
The external environment of the Solvency II position to the and ongoing IT transformation has effective management of our business.
made this a priority focus for 2016.
