Key risks and mitigations The Group is exposed to a variety of risks The executive oversight of risk is delegated Integrity and as a result of its business activities.
As such by the Chief Executive to the Chief Financial active and effective risk management is a Officer.
The Chief Financial Officer has good conduct core competence and we actively monitor responsibility for the risk and control the potential impact of current and emerging framework of the Group and the independent are central to risks.
The Group places significant focus on monitoring and reporting of risks and controls the integrity and good conduct of employees is supported by the Group Head of Risk.
our culture and and the risk management framework is underpinned by a strong ethical culture.
This The Chief Financial Officer chairs the Group approach to risk section explains how we control and manage Risk Committee GRC.
This meets 10 times the risks in our business.
It outlines key risks, a year, and more frequently if required, management.
how we mitigate them and our assessment and is attended by the heads of the control of their potential impact on our business in functions, being Group Risk, Compliance, the context of the current environment.
Legal and Internal Audit, the Chief Operating Officer, the Head of Investment and senior Managing risk managers from Distribution and Wealth The Board is accountable for risk and the Management.
The GRC supports the oversight of the risk management process.
Chief Financial Officer and the GMC in It considers the most significant risks facing discharging their risk management the Group and uses quantitative exposure responsibilities.
The GRC reviews and measures, such as stress tests, where monitors the adequacy and effectiveness appropriate.
Non-executive oversight of of the Groups risk management framework, the risk management process is exercised including relevant policies and limits.
It also through the Audit and Risk Committee reviews trends and exceptions in the most with respect to standards of integrity, significant risk exposures.
The GRC and risk management and internal control.
the Wealth Management Audit and Risk Committee receive reports in respect of It is the responsibility of all employees to risk from the Wealth Management uphold the control culture of Schroders and Executive Committee.
risk management is embedded within all areas of the business.
Members of the GMC Lines of defence have risk management responsibility for their The first line of defence against undesirable respective business areas and we expect outcomes is the business function and the individual behaviours to mirror the culture respective line managers, across Investment, and core values of the Group.
Distribution, Wealth Management and Infrastructure.
Business heads take the The Chief Executive and GMC, as the principal lead role with respect to identifying potential executive committee with responsibility for the risks and implementing and maintaining monitoring and reporting of risks and controls, appropriate controls.
regularly review the key risks facing the Group.
Lines of defence Overview External independent assurance Three lines of defence rd 3 Line: Internal independent assurance Group Group Audit nd 2 Line: Control and oversight functions Risk Management and Risk Committee Committee Committee st 1 Line: Business operations and support 36 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategy & Business review Compliance Our Compliance team forms part of our second line of defence against undesirable outcomes.
The compliance monitoring programme reviews the effective operation of our processes in meeting regulatory requirements.
Viability Statement Line management is supplemented by risks across our UK businesses.
We have oversight functions, such as Group risk, enhanced the communications of our finance, human resources, compliance, expectations of the behaviour of employees.
In accordance with the UK Corporate legal and governance, which constitute the The Employee Opinion Survey showed a high Governance Code, the Directors have second line of defence.
The compliance degree of employee alignment with, and carried out a robust assessment of the key monitoring programme reviews the effective support for, our culture and values.
We are risks facing the Group and expect that the operation of our processes in meeting continuing to strengthen our management Group will continue to be viable for the next regulatory requirements.
information and reporting in this key area and five years.
This assessment has been made developing a proportionate application of the in consideration of the business model, Group Internal Audit provides retrospective, framework to our overseas businesses.
future performance, solvency and liquidity.
independent assurance over the operation of controls and is the third line of defence.
The Groups operational risk capabilities were The Directors review financial forecasts The internal audit programme includes enhanced by adding a risk library to our risk and key risks regularly.
Key risks, including reviews of risk management processes and system, which links instances of operational mitigation of these risks, are detailed in this recommendations to improve the control risk across the firm and highlight areas Key risks and mitigations section.
The environment, supplemented by external requiring additional focus.
In addition, the risk business strategy on pages 10 and 11 also assurance from the Groups auditors.
and control assessment RCA process was highlights how the key risks are aligned to strengthened.
the delivery of our strategic objectives.
Schroders also maintains insurance cover.
Recognising the increased incidence of cyber The prospects of Schroders plc have been 2015 developments crime within the industry, we conducted a assessed in line with its strategic business The Group Risk operating model has been review of our information security framework planning and forecasting period which has reviewed and we have further strengthened and continue to invest in this area.
Stress testing from a our risk framework.
Information Security Risk Oversight capital and liquidity perspective has been Committee was established, chaired by the performed on the Groups business plan We have continued to implement and embed Group Head of Risk, and both the first and and this is also used in the Groups Internal our UK Conduct framework through the second lines of defence were enhanced Capital Adequacy Assessment Process identification, mitigation and reporting of risks through the recruitment of specialists.
ICAAP and the liquidity stress test of poor client outcomes and other Conduct programme.
As part of its stress testing approach, the Group considered a number of scenarios with a range of factors that model outflows of our assets under management and valuations of our assets under management which may fall due to a market downturn.
The Group also considers the impacts of an environment where margins are compressed.
The Group considers a range of large operational risk events to ensure we are appropriately capitalised if those circumstances were to arise.
The Directors current, reasonable expectation is that Schroders plc will be able to continue in operation, meeting its liabilities as they fall due, over a viability horizon of five years.
Group Risk Group Risk is a critical second line of defence that helps to manage and mitigate risks across our business.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37 Key risks and mitigations continued Key risks We have identified the following as the key risks to Schroders.
Reputational risk The reputation of Schroders is of paramount as a result of weaknesses in systems integral to our culture and values.
Our reputation can be impacted and controls.
key reputational risks when initiating changes by an adverse risk event arising from any of in strategy or operating model.
Reputational risk may also arise from engaging in inappropriate client relationships In addition, we have a number of controls and Reputational risk impacts Schroders or mandates which may have adverse frameworks to address other risks that could brand, reliability and relationship with implications for the Group.
affect our reputation including: financial crime, clients and shareholders.
This may arise investment risk and client take-on and from poor conduct or judgements, or from High standards of conduct and a principled product development.
negative financial or operational events approach to regulatory compliance are Assessment of key risks The key risks outlined on pages 39 to 42 have been assessed in light of the current environment and are summarised in the 2 adjacent diagram.
13 1 14 12 This year we have made the following changes to the presentation of our 10 9 key risks: International business risk has been renamed global business risk 7 A new category for the risk of insufficient capital has been included under market, 11 3 5 credit, liquidity and capital risks A new category for tax risk has been 16 included under operational risks 15 The horizontal axis shows whether the likelihood of the risk is stable or heightened, 6 4 reflecting the current conditions.
The vertical axis shows the potential financial impact to the firm if that risk materialised.
The Group 8 undertakes additional work to address those risks that it considers to be potentially heightened, more costly or in excess of our Risk stable Risk heightened risk appetite.
Reputational risk is not included Risk in the chart because this could arise as a result of other risk events occurring.
Conduct and regulatory risk In some areas we have seen increased 2.
Legal risk levels of risk, which we continue to actively 3. Business concentration risk 11.
Tax risk manage and an increase in financial impact.
Process risk In particular, the outlook for markets 13.
Fraud risk remains uncertain and regulatory scrutiny Market, credit, liquidity and capital risks 14.
Technology and information security risk is increasing.
People and employment practices risk 6. Credit risk 16.
Third party service provider risk 7.
Risk of insufficient capital 38 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Costs Costs stable Cost increased Strategic report Strategy & Business review Business risks Business risk can be influenced by both internal and external factors.
A risk can materialise due to poor business execution or a failure to respond appropriately to internal or external factors.
Business risk can impact our earnings.
Key risk Description How we manage risk 1.
I nvestment The management of investment performance We have in place clearly defined investment processes designed to meet investment performance risk risk is a core skill of the Group.
This is the risk targets within stated risk parameters.
that portfolios will not meet their investment objectives or that there is a failure to deliver The Groups Investment Risk Framework provides review and challenge of investment consistent and above-average performance.
risks, independent of our fund managers, across all asset classes.
Individual portfolio performance, valuations and risk profiles are monitored by fund managers and asset class heads on a regular basis, as well as by Pricing and Valuation Committees, Asset Class Risk Committees and the GMC.
Recognising that products will not outperform all of the time, we offer clients a diversified product set.
Key to investment performance is our ability to attract and retain talented people see people and employment practices risk for further information.
Product risk Product risk arises from product or service To manage product risk we conduct quantitative analysis on a product by product viability and the risk that products or services basis to confirm that products are performing to the expectation of our clients in do not meet their objectives and product and accordance with our mandate.
If the results do not meet our standards, we assess service complexity.
the qualitative aspects and, if appropriate, the product strategy is reassessed.
Commercial viability and distribution channels are assessed by the Product Development Committee when they consider new fund proposals.
New investment propositions and strategies are reviewed by the Product Strategy Committee.
Product risk can also arise from capacity We monitor potential capacity constraints in funds on a regular basis.
Risk mitigation constraints where the size of assets under may include closing products to new investment.
The Product Development management in a particular asset class or Committee considers the interests and needs of potential investors in our funds.
strategy makes it more difficult to trade efficiently in the market.
3. Business Business concentration risk arises from The broad range and scale of products and of distribution and investment channels concentration risk concentration in a small number of that we have established mitigates our concentration risk and the dependency on distribution channels or products or when any single sales channel.
a small number of clients are concentrated in a specific product or market.
We aim to avoid client concentrations in any particular market or channel becoming excessive.
Pressure on revenue margins continues We continue to offer competitive solutions.
We review the scalability of our business to be a risk due to the rise of passive and continue to invest in infrastructure.
strategies, competition, transparency and regulatory change.
G lobal Our business is broadly diversified by region.
We employ people with relevant expertise to manage our business and operations business risk Whilst this mitigates our aggregate risk profile in accordance with local requirements as well as Group standards.
it introduces additional risks in terms of operating cross-border and in multiple New global markets are not accessed without appropriate due diligence.
environments as a result of business practices, customs and traditions.
Local risk committees are established where appropriate and Compliance, Group Risk and other second line functions provide local oversight in all regions in which we operate.
The GRC receives reports from line management regarding matters that give cause for concern and recommendations for appropriate remedial action.
Our global operations are regularly reviewed by Group Internal Audit.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 Key risks and mitigations continued Market, credit, liquidity and capital risks We face market, credit, liquidity and capital risks from movements in the financial markets in which we operate, arising from holding investments both as principal and agent.
Notes 19 and 20 to the accounts on pages 122 to 128 set out the Groups approach to the management of financial instrument risk, where we act as principal together with the Groups approach to hedging.
Key risk Description How we manage risk 5.
Market risk Operating capital, net revenue and expenses The Group Capital Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, regularly reviews all related to the Groups overseas subsidiaries principal assets held for investment or seed capital purposes.
The Groups seed capital are denominated in local currencies and are investments are hedged in respect of market risk and currency risk where practical.
therefore subject to exchange rate risk.
We use forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate transactional and investment Market risk arises from market movements, exposure to currency movements.
which can cause a fall in the value of principal investments and a decline in the value of The Wealth Management Executive Committee monitors and manages market assets under management.
risk in the Groups banking businesses, which is primarily interest rate risk in the banking book.
Our , broad product range helps to mitigate market risk in a variety of market conditions and serves to diversify individual market dependencies.
In addition, the Groups Investment Risk Framework provides review and challenge of market risks.
6. Credit risk We face credit risk as a result of counterparty We assess counterparty creditworthiness and set limits for both our principal and exposure with respect to client and principal agency counterparties.
investment holdings including derivative exposures.
The assets we manage are also We seek to diversify our exposure across different counterparties.
The creditworthiness exposed to counterparty risk.
of counterparties and borrowers are monitored, as is usage against the relevant credit limits.
We also face credit risk through Wealth In Wealth Management, we seek to mitigate credit risk within the lending activities, Management lending activities, in addition as appropriate, through collateralisation in the form of cash, portfolio investments to client transactional counterparty risk.
Credit risk is monitored and managed against limits and collateral.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group or any We maintain liquidity for our anticipated needs and regulatory requirements, taking of its subsidiaries cannot meet its contractual account of the risks we face.
or payment obligations in a timely manner.
The Group Capital Committee regularly reviews the Groups liquidity needs considering the current liquidity position, future cash flows, regulatory requirements and potential stress scenarios.
Liquidity is also considered at a legal entity level with consideration of specific circumstances and regulatory requirements of each company.
The Wealth Management Executive Committee monitors and manages liquidity risk in the Groups banking businesses.
Liquidity risk in relation to client portfolios To mitigate this risk, we seek to match the liquidity of the underlying investments may arise in difficult market conditions from with the anticipated redemption requirements when we construct portfolios.
the inability to sell the portfolios underlying investments for full value, or at all.
This could We have established a process to assess and monitor the liquidity risk profile affect performance and also prevent cash or of funds on an ongoing basis.
The process relies on a set of quantitative indicators other assets from being readily available to which provide information on the evolution of the liquidity of funds over time and meet redemptions or other obligations.
This helps us to identify and investigate possible issues, and implement an appropriate plan of action as necessary.
We also review products and portfolios on a regular basis to identify and manage possible capacity constraints.
Risk of insufficient The risk of insufficient capital would Maintaining a strong capital base is important to our business and is a core part of capital materialise if the Group was unable to our strategy.
We ensure each of our regulated subsidiaries, and the Group as a whole, support its strategic business objectives meet their minimum regulatory capital requirements.
The Group sets and maintains beyond its minimum regulatory capital a prudent level of capital, that includes a buffer over the minimum regulatory capital requirements.
requirement that allows us to effectively conduct our business in the markets in which we operate and to invest in new business opportunities that may arise.
The Group Capital Committee supports the Chief Financial Officer in exercising responsibility for the management of the Groups capital.
The Group performs a thorough assessment of the adequacy of its capital through the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
In addition, Wealth Management in London and the Channel Islands also perform an ICAAP.
40 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategy & Business review Operational risks Operational risk is inherent globally in all activities and processes we perform within the Group.
To manage and mitigate these risks, the second line of defence provides oversight and challenge to the business through an operational risk framework.
Tools to manage this include risk and control assessments, risk event management processes and new product approval processes.
We manage risk events through identification, reporting and resolution with the aim of preventing risk events from recurring.
Key risk Description How we manage risk 9.
Conduct and Conduct and regulatory risks include the We promote a strong compliance culture and we value good relationships with regulatory risk risks identified below.
Our Compliance function supports management in identifying our regulatory obligations and enabling these to be met through relevant training and The risks of client detriment arising from procedures.
Compliance with relevant regulatory requirements is monitored in inappropriate conduct, conflicts management, accordance with a risk-based programme.
practice or behaviour or failing to meet client needs, interests or expected outcomes.
Our approach to encouraging appropriate conduct and minimising the risk of client detriment is set out in our conduct risk framework, and is built on our culture and The risks of money laundering, bribery or values, supported by appropriate governance and reporting.
This includes: market abuse shortcomings on the part of A culture in which all employees are encouraged and supported to do the fund investors, clients or our employees.
right thing: A long-term approach to creating value and good outcomes for our clients, The risk of fines, penalties, censure or other fund investors and shareholders: sanctions arising from failure to identify or A focus on suitability of advice and of discretionary management and on products meet regulatory requirements.
that meet the needs of our clients and investors: and Strong controls, governance, training and risk management processes.
The risk that new regulations or changes to existing interpretations have a material Risk based client take-on and review processes are among our key controls to effect on the Groups operations, risk profile address the risks of money laundering.
Trading is subject to clear policies and to or cost base.
transaction surveillance processes, which are being increasingly enhanced.
Financial crime oversight is provided by the Financial Crime Committee.
Regulatory and legal change is monitored by the Compliance, Legal and Public Policy teams.
Key regulatory and tax risks are identified on page 43.
We engage with our regulators where appropriate in relation to potential and planned changes.
Legal risk The risk that Schroders or its counterparties, We rely on our employees, with support from our Legal function, to consider clients or suppliers with whom we contract the obligations we assume across the Group and our compliance with them.
fail to meet their legal obligations, that Our policies and procedures across the Group are developed having regard Schroders takes on obligations that it did to recognised legal risks.
not intend to assume and the risk of legal proceedings and loss.
Confirmations are obtained from representatives around the Group that actual or potential disputes and claims have been brought promptly to the attention of the The risk that client expectations and General Counsel.
obligations with respect to our own and third party responsibilities under investment We have an escalation process for areas of identified material risk.
management and other agreements will not be met, with a revenue or contingent liability impact.
Tax risk The risk that the Group or its managed funds Our approach to managing tax risk is set out in our tax governance framework.
face additional liabilities or penalties arising This identifies key tax activities across the Group and defines responsibilities in through non-compliance or failures in the tax respect of those activities.
We have a dedicated Tax function that works with management and our advisers Tax risk may also arise through a failure to monitor the tax compliance obligations of the Group.
Local management, with to understand how the law applies in support from our Tax function, is generally responsible for identifying and managing specific circumstances or where there compliance obligations arising in respect of managed funds, with the assistance of exists inherent uncertainty as to how third party service providers.
the relevant law will apply.
Developments in taxation are monitored by the Tax function and local management.
We engage with representative industry organisations and advisors to ensure we are kept abreast of relevant changes, impacting the Group, our managed funds and our clients.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41 Key risks and mitigations continued Operational risks continued Key risk Description How we manage risk 12.
Process risk The risk of failure of significant business Our key business processes have been identified and the risks assessed by first line processes, including, for example, mandate of defence owners.
Associated controls are assessed with regard to their design compliance, client suitability checks and and performance.
Business owners perform RCAs to determine the adequacy and effectiveness of key controls.
Second line oversight and challenge is provided on the outputs of the RCAs.
Significant risks and gaps are reported to the GRC and remediation plans are developed and agreed.
Fraud risk Fraud could arise from either internal or Policies and procedures are in place to manage fraud risk.
Tailored risk assessments external parties who attempt to defraud the for fraud risk are conducted to identify potential risks and to ensure appropriate firm or our clients by circumventing our controls are in place.
There is a specialist team in the second line of defence that provides challenge and oversight of the fraud risk framework.
The Financial Crime Committee reports to the GRC.
Technology Technology and information security risk Schroders actively engages with regulators and intelligence services to understand and information relates to the risk that our technology and take action against potential cyber threats.
security risk systems and support are inadequate or fail to adapt to changing requirements: that our A technology and information security strategy has been approved by the Board.
systems are penetrated by third parties: and that data is held insecurely.
Formal governance over information risks has been established across the three lines of defence through the information security risk oversight committee.
The Group holds insurance to cover cyber risks including: electronic computer crime, professional indemnity for breach of confidentiality and network interruption for unavailability of IT services due to unauthorised access.
A suite of policies and technical standards, including security awareness training, has been deployed across the Group.
Pe ople and Talented employees may be targeted We have competitive remuneration and retention plans, with appropriate deferred employment by competitors seeking to build their benefits targeted at key employees.
We seek to build strength in depth through practices risk businesses.
sustainable succession and development plans.
We operate a global model, which reduces our reliance on single pools of talent.
Clear objectives are set for employees and success is measured in an annual review process, allowing us to identify motivational development initiatives.
In addition, people and employment We have policies and procedures in place to encourage diversity and to manage practices risk incorporates the risk that our employment issues appropriately and handle them consistently, fairly and in employment practices do not comply with compliance with local legislation.
local legislation, such as equal opportunities, human rights or the safety and wellbeing of employees when at work.
T hird party We have a number of outsourced supplier On an annual basis, the Audit and Risk Committee reviews all outsourced service provider risk relationships as part of our business model, relationships covered by the Group policy, focusing on significant aspects such particularly in respect of information as service quality and risk management.
technology, fund administration and transfer agency services.
Our outsourcing policy sets out key considerations when appointing and managing a third party service provider, including due diligence and regular reviews of providers Third party service provider risk relates performance against agreed service levels.
to the risk that suppliers may not be able to meet their agreed service level terms.
Exit plans are considered prior to appointment and provide a framework for transitioning business from one service provider to another should the quality fall below the agreed service level.
42 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategy & Business review The sections below show forward looking key external threats, regulatory risks and tax risks that may have an impact on our 3 business.
The Groups perceived time frames and potential impacts 6 of these risks have been mapped on the charts.
7 Mapping key threats to our risk profile Threats with uncertain impact, probability and time frame could impact 4 the Group.
We continuously monitor internal and external environments to identify new and emerging risks.
We then analyse each risk and, 2 8 if needed, develop and apply mitigation and management plans.
1 5 1 The external threats that are currently our focus of attention are set out below.
The chart indicates our assessment of the likelihood and potential timing of these risks.
The estimated likelihood may change as circumstances evolve and mitigation plans are developed.
Emerging market economy collapse, notably China 3.
Market liquidity crisis Short-term Long-term 4.
Geopolitical events e. g. continuing Middle East crisis, Time mass migration, Russia conflict 5.
Clearing house failure Market Other 6.
Cyber attacks Regulatory legal political Counterparty third party 7.
UK exit from the European Union Brexit Mapping key regulatory and tax related risks The extent of regulatory and tax change facing our industry has increased significantly.
This poses both risks and opportunities for our business.
The chart opposite combines known and emerging regulatory and tax change initiatives, to identify both the likely timing 12 4 1 and estimated impact of regulatory change on our business.
New 13 initiatives which arose during 2015 are highlighted in orange.
Local Authority Pension 8 Instruments Directive II Fund reform 2 C MiFID II and Regulation 11.
UK Financial Advice Market MiFIR implementation Review FAMR 9 2.
Extension of the Senior MAR implementation Managers Regime to all 3.
Remuneration and employee regulated financial services incentivisation reform firms in the UK Short-term Medium-term Long-term 4.
Fourth EU Money Laundering Time and reporting globally Directive MLD IV 5.
EU General Data Protection New risk opportunity In 2014 Annual Report Insurance based Investment Regulation GDPR Tax related risk opportunity Products PRIIPS Regulation 15.
EU Capital Markets competition market study Union proposals 7.
Asian mutual fund Tax related risks recognition initiatives opportunities 8.
UK Fair and Effective A. OECD common tax reporting Markets Review FEMR standard CRS 9.
Regulatory scrutiny B. OECD and EU initiatives and of systemic risks in related actions on base erosion asset management and profit shifting BEPS C. EU VAT changes D. EU Financial Transaction The Strategic report was approved Tax FTT by the Board on 2 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Michael Dobson, Chief Executive Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43 Group Impact Likelihood Low Medium High Less likely More likely Governance Board of Directors 46 Group Management Committee 48 and Company Secretary Corporate governance report 50 Directors report 65 Remuneration report 68 Statement of Directors 87 responsibilities 44 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance We manage 41 billion of Our business in Latin America operates from four offices and we manage 7 billion of clients assets from nine clients assets.
We expect to see growth in offices across the Americas.
the region as a number of pension markets, such as in Brazil and Mexico, are opened to As the largest asset international investment.
management market in the world, North America is a key area of strategic growth for the firm.
In focus: North America We manage 34 billion on behalf of North American clients.
We have invested to grow our presence in the region through additions to our sales force and consultant relations team.
We have also deployed seed capital in locally domiciled products across a broad range of strategies to offer our clients a range of products to meet their investment objectives.
Americas offices Bermuda, Buenos Aires, Cayman Islands, Mexico City, New York, Philadelphia, Santiago, So Paulo Investment offices.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45 45
