RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT CLOSE AND DISCIPLINED RISK MANAGEMENT The Group seeks to embrace the risks inherent Secure and organise the required level and in its business activities and operations through capability of risk infrastructure and resources: close and disciplined risk management which Undertake remedial action where any quantifies the risks taken, manages and weaknesses are identified: and mitigates them as far as possible and prices Scan the external horizon for emerging risks.
appropriately for the residual level of risk carried in order to produce an appropriate Risk Appetite commercial return through the cycle.
The levels of risk that the Group is willing to tolerate in operating the various elements of its The Groups approach to risk management business are defined in a Risk Appetite will continue to evolve and has benefited from Statement, which is agreed by the Board.
This extensive investment during 2015 to ensure articulates qualitative and quantitative measures that it remains comprehensive, consistent and of risk which are cascaded across various areas of scalable to accommodate the Banks growth the Banks operations, calibrated by reference to plans.
The investment in establishing a revised the Groups absolute capacity for risk absorption, Risk Management Framework in 2015 will see limit of appetite and target thresholds.
Risk Management Framework This Enterprise Wide Risk Management All of the Groups business and support service Framework is underpinned by the following activities, including those outsourced to third key elements: party providers or originated via brokers and other business intermediaries are executed Risk Strategy within the parameters of a single comprehensive The Risk Strategy sets out the risk management Risk Management Framework.
This sets out objectives which support the achievement of minimum requirements and ensures consistent the Groups commercial goals and the operation standards and processes are set across the of business activities which seek to deliver those organisation.
Risks are identified, measured, aims.
The Risk Strategy sets out which risks are to managed, monitored, reported and controlled be acquired or incurred and how they will be using the Risk Management Framework.
The managed by the organisation.
design and effectiveness of the framework is The strategic risk management objectives are: overseen and reviewed by the Board Risk Identify material risks arising in the day to day Committee.
The key elements of the framework activities and operations of the Group: are set out later in this report..
Quantify the risks attaching to the execution of the Groups business plans: Set an appropriate Risk Appetite with calibrated measures and tolerance levels: Optimise the risk reward characteristics of business written: Set minimum standards in relation to the acquisition, incurrence and management of risk: Risk Appetite Statement Objectives and Dimensions BUSINESS PERFORMANCE INFRASTRUCTURE CONDUCT REPUTATION Profit Volatility Systems Product Design Customers Financial Strength People Sales Regulators Growth and Concentration Data Quality Post Sales Service Shareholders & Market Funding & Liquidity Processes Culture People Transformation Projects Intermediaries Outsourcing Third Parties 32 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Governance RISK APPETITE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK All the Banks risk activities are subject to detailed The Risk Appetite Statement RAS is a detailed Responsibility for risk management sits at all and comprehensive governance arrangements and granular expression of the level of risk the levels across the Group from the Board and which set out how risk based authority Group is willing to accept in relation to the Executive Committee down through the Central is delegated from the Board to executive pursuit of its business strategy.
The RAS is not Functions, and in turn to each Divisional Head management and the various risk committees static and will evolve to both reflect and support and their business managers and risk officers.
These bodies and senior officers the Groups business objectives, the operating are accountable and responsible for ensuring environment and risk outlook.
In 2015 the Group invested heavily in enhancing that the day to day risks are appropriately the design and build of an integrated risk managed within the agreed Risk Appetite The RAS is not just a reporting tool providing an management model to support its strategic and in accordance with the requirements of aggregated measure of risk temperature and and commercial objectives.
This activity will the Risk Management Framework.
Just as importantly it also provides continue into 2016 as the framework is rolled out, and reporting requirements are set out in risk a framework which is used dynamically to inform operationalised and embedded across the Bank.
policies and by the Risk Appetite thresholds.
strategic and operational management decisions, as well as supporting the business The Groups Risk Management Framework Culture planning process.
describes the various activities, techniques The Group is led by an experienced senior and tools which are mandated to support team with a combination of significant The RAS is reviewed periodically by the Board the identification, measurement, control, underwriting expertise and institutional and Risk Committee and agreed with the Board on management, monitoring, reporting and regulatory banking experience at various major an annual basis as a minimum.
A dashboard with challenge of risk across the Group.
It is designed financial institutions and specialist lenders.
the status of each metric is monitored monthly.
to provide an integrated, comprehensive, This heritage provides the platform for a set Management and the Board exercise their consistent and scalable structure which is of values and behaviours where the client is judgement as to the appropriate action required capable of being communicated to and at the heart of the decision making process in relation to any threshold trigger breach, clearly understood by all our employees and business areas are held fully accountable dependent on the scenario at the time.
and is shown diagrammatically below.
At the individual level this process begins with the induction The RAS identifies four groups of risk appetite The Risk Management Framework also program and job descriptions: it is carried objectives which are further subdivided into 20 incorporates the organisational arrangements into the setting of individual objectives and appetite dimensions as set out diagrammatically for managing risk with specific responsibilities performance reviews and ultimately reflected on the previous page.
A suite of qualitative distributed to certain functions.
This ensures that in the compensation and reward structure.
statements and quantitative measures have that there is clear accountability, responsibility been set for each dimension, with hard risk limits and engagement at appropriate levels within calibrated by reference to absolute capacity, the organisation which can provide robust maximum risk tolerance and a threshold trigger review and challenge as well as be challenged.
Operationally, the Risk Management Framework is organised around the key risk categories.
Groups Risk Management Framework RISK STRATEGY Risk Management Framework Principles Risk Appetite Key Risk Categories Credit & Conduct, Legal & Market & Liquidity Risk Operational Risk Strategy Risk Systems & Change Risk Concentration Risk Compliance Risk Policies Process & Procedures Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 33 RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT CONTINUED Risk Governance Board Board Risk Committee Risk Governance describes the architecture through which the Board allocates Board and delegates primary accountability, Audit responsibility and authority for risk Oversight Committee management across the organisation.
Risk Category First Line Second Line Third Line Credit Risk Credit Management Credit Risk Credit Responsibility for risk oversight is delegated in Business Areas & Committee from the Board to the Board Risk Committee Treasury and Board Audit Committee.
The ultimate responsibility for risk remains with the Board.
Liquidity and Treasury Market & Liquidity ALCO Market Risk Risk & Finance Accountability, responsibility and authority for risk management is delegated to the Operational All Business Divisions Operational Risk Conduct & Chief Executive and CRO, who in turn allocate Risk and functional areas Operational responsibility for oversight and certain approvals Risk Committee Internal across a number of Management Committees.
Audit Conduct, Legal All Business Divisions Compliance Conduct & Authority and responsibility for material and Compliance and functional areas Operational operational risk management, decision making Risk Risk Committee and risk assurance is vested in the CRO and the Group Risk function.
Lesser levels of authority Strategic Risk Exec Directors & Finance EXCO are cascaded to the senior management within Senior Management the support functions and Business Divisions.
Systems and IT Change Operational Risk Change Change Risk Management Management These bodies and senior officers are accountable Committee and responsible for ensuring that the risks are appropriately managed within the agreed Risk Appetite and in accordance with the Committee Structure and process within the Bank.
The Board requirements of the Risk Management Risk Responsibilities oversees the management of the Key Risk Framework.
Individuals are encouraged to adopt An abbreviated Board and Management Categories across the organisation.
an open and independent culture of challenge Committee structure and is set out below which is essential to ensuring risk issues are fully highlighting those Committees with primary The Board delegates specific powers for some surfaced and debated with views and decisions risk-related duties.
matters to committees, details of which are recorded.
Risk Governance and culture is set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
reinforced by the provisions of the Senior The monitoring and controlling of risk is Manager Regime.
a fundamental part of the management Formal risk escalation and reporting requirements GROUP are set out in Risk Policies, individual Committee BOARD Terms of Reference and the approved Risk Appetite thresholds and Limits.
NOMINATION REMUNERATION BOARD AUDIT BOARD RISK DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE NomCo RemCo BAC BRC DISCO Executive Committee Exco Asset & Credit Product & Conduct & Change Liability Committee Pricing Operational Risk Management Committee Committee Committee Committee ALCO CC PPC CORC CMC Credit Provisions Approval Committee Committee CAC PC Key: Relevant to Risk Management Framework 34 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 BOARD BRC CEO STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS THREE LINES OF DEFENCE MODEL support functions such as Finance, Human The First Line of Defence has its own operational The Groups approach to risk management is Resources and Information Technology are also process and procedures manuals to demonstrate underpinned by the Three Lines of Defence in the First Line of Defence as, although they are and document how it conforms to the approved model which is summarised in the diagram below.
not customer facing themselves, they provide policies and controls.
Likewise it develops support and back-up to the customer facing Quality Control programmes to monitor and 1st Line of Defence divisions and have insight into many operational measure adherence to and effectiveness of Responsibility for risk management resides in the factors that could ultimately impact on Groups procedures.
All employees within a customer front line business Divisions and functions, and exposure to market, liquidity, credit, regulatory, facing unit are considered First Line of Defence.
line management is directly accountable for legal, conduct, compliance and operational risk.
Each employee is aware of the risks to the Group identifying and managing the risks that arise in of for their particular activity and the business their business or functional area.
They are Each business unit and functional area operates unit heads are responsible for ensuring there is a required to establish effective controls in line to set Risk Policies to ensure that activities remain risk aware culture within the First Line of with Group Risk Policy and act within the Risk within the Boards stated Risk Appetite for that Defence.
For certain key policies, divisional staff Appetite parameters set and approved by the area of the Group.
The Risk Policies are approved complete regular online training programmes to Board.
The First Line of Defence comprises each by the appropriate Committee in accordance ensure knowledge is refreshed and current.
of the five Lending Divisions and the Retail with their Terms of Reference and reviewed Savings business.
The First Line of Defence also annually with any material changes requiring includes the Treasury Function.
Elements of the approval at Committee Level.
BOARD BOARD RISK COMMITTEE The Three Lines of Defence Board establishes risk appetite and strategy Approves frameworks, methodologies, policies and roles and responsibilities 1. BUSINESS DIVISIONS 1ST LINE OF DEFENCE Owner of the risk management processes and regulatory compliance Identifies, manages, mitigates and reports on operational risk 2.
GROUP RISK 2ND LINE OF DEFENCE Design, interpret and develop overall risk management framework, and monitor BAU adherence Overview and monitor key risks BOARD AND EXECUTIVE Compliance develop compliance policies, lead delivery of regulatory change and monitor and report regulatory issues 3.
INTERNAL AUDIT 3RD LINE OF DEFENCE CURENTLY DELOITTE BUSINESS UNITS 1ST LINE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Independent testing and verification of the Banks ACTIVITY business model, policies, processes and business line compliance 2ND LINE RISK OVERSIGHT Provides independent assurance to the Board and Regulator that the risk management process is 3RD LINE INTERNAL AUDIT functioning as designed Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 35 AUDIT COMMITTEE CRO EXECUTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT CONTINUED 2nd Line of Defence Providing advice and support to the First Line Line may in some cases use as a starting The Second Line of Defence comprises the in relation to risk management activities: point the reports and reviews compiled by Groups central and independent risk Credit Approvals between Divisional the Second Line but is not restricted to them management and compliance function led by the Authority and the threshold for Credit or necessarily influenced by their findings.
Chief Risk Officer, who reports to the Chairman of Approval Committee: and the Board Risk Committee and to the CEO.
It also Undertaking stress testing exercises and The Third Line of Defences scope of work includes General Counsel & Company Secretary working with Finance and Treasury on the is agreed with the Board Audit Committee who is also the MLRO who reports to the CEO.
production of the ICAAP, ILAAP and RRP.
to provide an independent assessment of the governance, risk management and The high level risk structure is shown below: 3rd Line of Defence internal control frameworks operated by the The Third Line of Defence is Deloitte LLP Group and to note the extent to which the The Second Line of Defence is necessarily and which has been appointed by the Group Group is operating within its Risk Appetite.
deliberately not customer-facing and has no to act as its independent internal audit It does this by reviewing aspects of the responsibility for any business targets or function.
This provides independent control environment, key processes and performance.
It is primarily responsible for: assurance on the activities of the Group specific risks and includes review of the The design and build of the various and the effectiveness of the Groups Risk operation of the Second Line of Defence.
components of the Banks Risk Management Management Framework and controls directly Framework and embedding these, together to the Board and Board Audit Committee.
The Groups engagement of Deloitte LLP with the Risk Strategy and Risk Appetite, Internal Audit reports directly to the nonto carry out the functions of the Third Line across the organisation: executive Chair of the Board Audit Committee of Defence provides the Group with access Independent monitoring of the Groups as well as the CEO and is independent of to specialist capabilities beyond its current activities against the Boards Risk Appetite First and Second Lines of Defence.
scale and provides insight into best practice.
and limits, and provision of monthly analysis The performance of Deloitte in this role is and reporting on the risk portfolio to the The Third Line has access to the activities of both reviewed by the Board Audit Committee.
Executive and the Board: First and Second Line.
It can inspect and review Issuing and maintaining the suite of Group adherence to policy and controls in the First Risk Policies: Line, the monitoring of activity in the Second Undertaking physical reviews of risk Line and the setting of policy and controls in management, controls and capability in the the Second Line.
The Third Line of Defence First Line units and providing Risk Assurance does not independently establish policy or reports to the Executive and the Board on all controls itself, outside of those necessary to aspects of risk performance and compliance implement its recommendations with respect with the Risk Management Framework: to the other two Lines of Defence.
The Third High level risk structure CHIEF BOARD RISK EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE CHAIR GENERAL CHIEF RISK COUNSEL & OFFICER COMPANY SECRETARY CONDUCT & ENTERPRISE OPERATIONAL RISK MARKET & CREDIT LEGAL COMPLIANCE RISK RISK ANALYTICS LIQUIDITY RISK RISK DEPARTMENT RISK 36 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS RISK POLICIES AND CONTROLS procedures are required to be compliant with based upon Divisional products.
This is The Risk Management Framework is enacted Group Policy and dispensations or waivers will considered to provide a more stable, consistent through a comprehensive suite of control be required where gaps are identified.
These risk standard and control across the Groups documents and risk policies, setting out the process and procedures manuals provide staff at portfolio of loan assets.
Asset Classes can also be minimum requirements and standards in relation all levels with day to day direction and guidance aligned more readily with Risk Weightings, to the acquisition and management of risk assets in the execution of their duties.
Probability of Default, Loss Given Default and as well as the control of risks embedded in the Expected Loss metrics which facilitates risk Groups operations, activities and markets.
The effectiveness of and compliance with the reporting, risk adjusted profitability analysis and risk policy framework is evaluated on a modelling for stress testing and capital The Groups High Level Control Documents and continuous basis through the monthly reporting adequacy purposes.
Risk Policies are owned and managed by the requirements including risk policy exceptions Group Risk function, headed by the Chief Risk reporting.
Additionally a quarterly Control Self Asset Class Policies are structured on the basis of Officer CRO and approved by the Board or, Certification process supplemented by a Policy Rules which must be adhered to and where delegated, the appropriate Risk programme of audits, thematic risk assurance Guidelines where an element of controlled Committee.
The suite of Policies is grouped reviews and quality control testing is undertaken discretion is permitted.
All planned exceptions to according to importance and key risk categories.
by each of the Three Lines of Defence.
Policy Rules require approval at the Group Risk level and both planned and unplanned Group-level Risk Policies are supplemented as Asset Class Policies exceptions to Policy Rules are reported monthly required by Divisional Risk processes and The Groups Lending Policies are contained in 16 to the relevant Risk Committee.
procedures, where more specific and tailored Asset Class Policies.
These have been arranged criteria are detailed.
Divisional processes and to operate on a Group-wide basis rather than PRINCIPAL RISK CATEGORIES The principal risk categories faced by the Group are as follows: Risk Category Definition Credit Risk including concentration The risk that a borrowing client or treasury counterparty fails to repay some or all of the capital or and single name risk interest advanced to them.
This category also includes Credit Concentration risk.
Liquidity and Market Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the group is unable to meet its current and future financial obligations as they fall due, or is only able to do so at excessive cost.
Market Risk is the risk of financial loss through un-hedged or mismatched asset and liability positions that are sensitive to changes in interest rates or currencies.
Operational Risk Operational Risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events including strategy and reputational risks.
Conduct, Legal and Conduct Risk is the risk that the groups behaviour will result in poor customer outcomes and that our Compliance Risk people fail to behave with integrity.
Legal and Compliance Risk is the risk of regulatory enforcement and sanction, material financial loss, or loss to reputation the Bank may suffer as a result of its failure to identify and comply with applicable laws, regulations, codes of conduct and standards of good practice.
Strategic Risk Risk that the Group is unable to meet its objectives through the inappropriate selection or implementation of strategic plans.
This includes the ability to generate volume and inside risk appetite.
Systems and Change Risk Systems and change risk is the risk that transition changes in the business will be improperly implemented.
A more detailed summary of each principal risk is contained in the following sections.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 37 RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT CONTINUED Credit Risk Approval and on-going monitoring control is The Group has, therefore, developed This risk has two main components: exercised both within the businesses and comprehensive funding and liquidity policies Customer risk from core lending activity : through oversight by the Group Credit Risk to ensure that it maintains sufficient liquid and function.
This applies to both individual assets to be able to meet all its financial Treasury credit risk from treasury activity.
transactions as well as at the portfolio level by obligations and maintain public confidence.
way of monthly credit information reporting, The Banks Treasury credit risk exposure is limited measurement against Risk Appetite limits and The Groups Treasury function is responsible to short term deposits placed with leading UK testing via risk quality assurance reviews.
for the day to day management of the Groups Banks.
The Board sets The Divisions operate timely collections and limits over the level, composition, and maturity Credit Risk Approval Process arrears management processes.
It is recognised of liquidity and deposit funding balances, The Bank operates a hierarchy of Lending that the credit environment is currently benign reviewing these at least annually.
Compliance authorities based principally upon the size and we plan in 2016 to undertake a group level with these limits is monitored daily by Finance of credit risk exposure to counterparties, strategic review of operational arrangements and Risk personnel independent of Treasury and group of connected counterparties or, where and capabilities for non-performing loan additionally, a series of liquidity stress tests are applicable, a portfolio of lending assets that management to ensure that the Bank is capable performed weekly by Risk and formally reported are subject to a single transaction.
In addition of operating in a more challenging environment to ALCO and the Board to ensure that the to maximum amounts of credit exposure, sole where interest rates are rising and there is lower Group maintains adequate liquidity for business Lending Mandates may stipulate sub-limits demand and liquidity in property markets.
purposes even under stressed conditions.
and or further conditions and criteria.
Liquidity and Market Risk The Group reports its liquidity position Each Division has a maximum credit approval Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group against its Liquidity Coverage Ratio, authority delegated to named individuals is unable to meet its current and future Net Stable Funding Ratio and other key operating within a policy framework.
Above financial obligations as they fall due, or is regulatory ratios for regulatory purposes.
the divisional authority, an independent only able to do so at excessive cost.
second line credit risk officer requires to A liquid asset buffer of government Treasury approve the proposal.
All facilities above the Market risk is the risk associated with adverse Bills acquired under the FLS, and reserves authority of the second line credit officers are changes in the fair value of positions held with the Bank of England, are maintained as approved by the Credit Approval Committee.
by the Group as a result of movement a source of high quality liquid assets that can in market factors such as interest rates, be called upon to create sufficient liquidity Lending is advanced subject to Group lending currencies, volatility and credit spreads.
in order to meet liabilities on demand.
approval policy and specific credit criteria.
When evaluating the credit quality and covenant of Operational Risk the borrower significant emphasis is placed The Board Risk Committee received regular on the nature of the underlying collateral.
reports across the spectrum of operational This process also includes the review of the risks and information security.
These reports Boards appetite for concentration risk.
covered incidents that have arisen to allow the Committee to assess managements response and proposed remedial actions.
Although a number of incidents were raised during the course of 2015, the Committee was satisfied that the action taken was appropriate and that the control of operational incidents continued to improve.
In response to the growing threat posed by Information Security, a full Cyber Crime risk assessment was undertaken to assess the adequacy of the Groups internal control framework to respond to this threat and our planned investment to deal with increasing levels of cyber risk.
The operational risk reports were developed throughout 2015 to include a focus on forward looking risks which permits a more strategic discussion at the Board Risk Committee level.
38 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Conduct, Legal and Compliance Risk The Group continually reviews its risk management approach to reflect the regulatory and legal environment in which the Bank operates.
The Group has no appetite for knowingly behaving inappropriately, resulting in unfair outcomes for its customers.
During 2015 the Group reviewed its Risk Appetite for Conduct Risk to introduce measures across the conduct risk lifecycle, which includes product design, sales or after sales processes and culture.
These measures are reported to the Board monthly and provide the basis for demonstrating that the Group is operating within its risk appetite.
Where the Group identifies potential unintended outcomes for customers the Group uses its risk management process to proactively escalate, agreeing appropriate actions and communicating clearly with its customers to ensure a fair outcome is achieved.
Strategic Risk Strategic risk focusses on large, long term risks that could become a material issue for the delivery of the Groups goals and objectives.
Management of strategic risk is primarily the responsibility of the Executive.
The management of strategic risk is intrinsically linked to the corporate planning and stress testing processes and is further supported by the regular provision of consolidated business performance and risk reporting to the Executive and Board.
The Board has received and approved a number of reports during 2015 including the five year plan, the Banks Risk Appetite and active engagement in the formation of the Groups ICAAP and ILAAP that are critical tools to managing strategic risk.
Systems and Change Risk Customer expectations for service availability are rising with the rapid pace of new technologies leading to a significantly lower tolerance for service disruption.
The Group recognises that in order to continue to be recognised for very high levels of customer satisfaction it needs to continually monitor systems risk and ensure that change is delivered with minimum disruption to customers.
During 2015 the Group has reviewed its Risk Appetite for Systems and Change Risk and plans in 2016 to review and further enhance its business continuity and disaster recovery capability.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 39 RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT CONTINUED TOP AND EMERGING RISKS The Group sees six themes as its top and These themes, together with the Groups The Groups top risks are identified emerging risks: strategy to mitigate the risk and the through the process outlined in the Risk Economic Environment: direction of each theme, are considered Management section and are considered Pace of Regulatory Change: further in the following sections.
regularly by management and subsequently Business Performance and Scale: by the Board Risk Committee.
Intermediary and Outsourcing: Pace, Scale of Change and Management Stretch: and Information Security.
Risk Type Risk Mitigation Economic Environment The Groups financial position continues to The Group operates in specialist areas where improve with increasing profitability and stronger management and staff have significant capital ratios.
However, changing economic expertise and a deep understanding of conditions in the UK, particularly in England customer needs that delivers superior service.
where the majority of the Groups operations are As a result all loans are written only after based, could affect the Groups performance in a thorough, bespoke underwriting to SMEs and number of ways including: consumers with a proven ability to repay and, Increased funding costs resulting from ongoing in the main, sufficient security.
political uncertainty accompanied by a loss of The Group undertakes a comprehensive confidence: assessment of its Risk Appetite to ensure that it The referendum on EU membership could can meet its objectives in severe but plausible fundamentally alter the UK financial services economic conditions.
landscape: and A reversal in the UK economy could drive higher The Group completes a comprehensive stressimpairments through increased defaults and or testing of its lending and deposit portfolios to reductions in collateral values.
test resilience to severe but plausible economic conditions.
The Group also establishes a prudent balance sheet strategy with robust levels of capital, liquidity and a prudent funding structure.
Pace of Regulatory Change The prudential and conduct regulatory regimes The regulatory environment continues to are subject to change and could lead to increases evolve and change.
The Group actively in the level and quality of capital that the Group engages with regulators, industry bodies and needs to hold to meet regulatory requirements.
advisors to actively engage in consultation processes.
Business Performance and Scale Rising competition could compress Group The Group uses its expertise and deep margins below sustainable levels.
understanding of its customer needs to drive customer service and a long term relationship with its customers through the cycle.
The Group monitors its chosen markets on a regular basis and regularly reviews adjacent markets where it has expertise and reviews opportunities for inorganic growth.
40 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Risk Type Risk Mitigation Intermediary and Outsourcing The Group is a specialist lending and savings bank The Group works with carefully selected for SMEs and consumers.
The specialist nature Intermediary and Broker partners who take of some of its lending through Intermediaries on the role of advising SME and consumers.
and Brokers may mean that some customers The Group recognises the importance of find themselves with an increased risk of an taking ownership for the lending it originates unfavourable outcome.
For the Group this may and continually undertakes a review of also lead to increased conduct related redress, their performance.
In addition, experienced additional fraud or credit risk impairments.
underwriters perform thorough checks on each application.
The Group continually reviews its risk management approach to intermediaries, brokers and outsource partners to reflect the regulatory environment that the Bank operates in.
Pace, Scale of Change and The scale and pace of change could create The Group understands the need to manage ManagementStretch delivery challenges and may lead to a disruption change without disrupting the Groups of the Groups plans and the delivery of its operating environment and impacting objectives.
These operational risks are managed through a strong focus on change governance and programme management disciplines and led by a dedicated Executive member.
The risks are further mitigated by the Groups significant strengthening of the senior management team.
The Group has a formal Change Management Committee that is set-up to prioritise change and provide effective oversight of the change portfolio to ensure that requirements are delivered within budget and on time.
Information Security The pace of technological development is The Group continually reviews its control changing the way in which SMEs and consumers environment for Information Security to reflect want to engage with the Group leading to a the evolving nature of the threats that the Bank number of risks: is exposed to.
Increasing customer demand may exceed the The Groups strategy for mitigating Information Groups ability to provide highly reliable and Security risk is comprehensive including: a widely available systems and services: documented cyber-strategy, ongoing threat The ever evolving nature and scale of criminal assessments, regular penetration testing, the activity increases the likelihood and severity of wide deployment of detective controls and a attacks on the Groups systems: and programme of education and training.
Franchise value and customer trust could be significantly eroded by a sustained hack of the Groups systems leading to a diversion of funds or the theft of customer data.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 41 RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT CONTINUED ICAAP, ILAA AND STRESS TESTING The Group also performed reverse stress tests The Board considers that the Groups public The ICAAP, ILAAP and associated stress testing to help management understand the full status, business model and the diversified exercises represent important elements of the continuum of adverse impact and therefore nature of its business markets provides it with Groups ongoing risk management processes.
the level of stress at which the Group would substantial flexibility to consider selective This ensures that sufficient capital and liquidity breach its individual capital and liquidity business or portfolio disposals, loan book run are available to support the Groups growth guidance requirements as set by the Regulator off, equity raising or a combination of these plans as well as cover its regulatory requirements under the ICAAP and ILAAP processes.
The Group has a Recovery Plan and at all times and under varying circumstances.
a Resolution Plan in place which it would RECOVERY AND RESOLUTION PLAN invoke in the event they would be required.
The ICAAP and ILAAP are reviewed at least The Group has prepared and submitted a Recovery annually, and more often in the event of a material and Resolution Plan RRP in accordance with change in capital or liquidity.
Ongoing stress Supervisory Statements SS18 13 and SS19 13 as testing and scenario analysis outputs are used to updated on 16 January 2015, which was refreshed inform the formal assessments and determination to take account of the Banks IPO in April 2015. of required buffers, the strategy and planning for capital and liquidity management as The plan represents the Banks Living Will and well as the setting of Risk Appetite limits.
examines in detail: The consequences of severe levels of stress The Board and senior management have i. e. beyond those in the ICAAP impacting engaged in a number of exercises which have the Bank at a future date: considered and developed stress test scenarios.
The state of preparedness and contingency The output analysis enables management plan to respond to and manage through such to evaluate the Groups capital and funding a set of circumstances: and resilience in the face of severe but plausible The options available to management risk shocks.
In addition to the UK variant test to withstand and recover from such an on capital prescribed by the Regulator, the environment.
stress tests have included a range of Groupwide, multi-risk category stress tests, generic This plan is prepared annually, or more and idiosyncratic financial shocks as well frequently in the event of a material change as operational risk scenario analyses.
Stress in the Groups status, capital or liquidity testing is an integral part of the adequacy position.
The Board of Directors and Senior assessment processes for liquidity and Management are fully engaged in considering capital, and the setting of tolerances under the scenarios and options available for the annual review of Group Risk appetite.
remedial actions to be undertaken.
GROUP VIABILITY STATEMENT The Group is not large enough to participate ensuring the development of early warning The Directors have assessed the outlook in the annual Bank of England concurrent indicators and potential mitigating actions.
for the Group over a longer period than stress testing programme but has, as part the twelve months required by the Going of its ICAAP, performed a variety of stress The Board aims to build a sustainable lending Concern statement in accordance with the tests and reverse stress tests of its business.
and savings bank for SMEs and consumers 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
These include two market wide stress tests over the medium to long.
The assessment and two Group specific idiosyncratic stress above concluded that the Viability Statement The assessment relied on: tests.
The stress tests were derived through should cover a period of three years in line The Board approved budget that outlines discussions with Senior Management and with the established three year planning cycle.
the business plans and financial projections the Board, after considering the Groups Taking account of the Groups current from 31 December 2015 to 31 December principal risks.
The Bank also considered position, consideration of its Top and 2020: its funding and liquidity adequacy in the Emerging Risks and the outputs from the The Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment context of the reverse stress testing.
The risk ICAAP and ILAAP work, the Directors have Process ICAAP : of the UK leaving the EU was not specifically a reasonable expectation that the Group The Internal Liquidity Adequacy addressed but the Board believe this risk was will be able to continue in operation Assessment Process ILAAP : and captured within the UK variant parameters, and meet its liabilities as they fall due A review and evaluation of its Top and and will keep this risk under review.
over a period of at least three years.
Emerging Risks as reported upon earlier in this section.
The stress tests enable the Group to assess the impact of a number of severe but plausible The Group has a well-established three year scenarios on its business model.
In the case planning cycle and during 2015 the Group of reverse stress testing, the Board is able to extended the time horizon for the firs time assess scenarios and circumstances that would as part of its corporate planning process.
render its business model unviable, thereby identifying business vulnerabilities and 42 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015
