40 RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT Statement, which is owned by the Board and reviewed at least Overview and Culture annually.
In particular it articulates: The St. Jamess Place Group is exposed to a wide variety of risks as a result of its business activities and the industry in which it Risks that are actively sought in pursuit of return operates, as well as a number of external factors and threats.
Risks that are consciously avoided Under the leadership, direction and oversight of our Board, Risks that are reduced through transfer to other parties these risks are carefully managed, contributing to our Risks that are minimised through controls competitive advantage and helping us to achieve our business and client objectives as set out on pages 16 and 17.
Risk appetite can and will change over time, sometimes rapidly as economic and business environment conditions We do not seek to eliminate risk entirely, rather we seek to change, and therefore the statement is an evolving document.
understand our risks fully, and to apply appropriate risk A comprehensive suite of indicators enable the Risk Committee, management strategies such that all material risks are identified, on behalf of the Board, to monitor that the Group remains and appropriately managed or mitigated.
Risk management is a within its agreed appetite.
core aspect of decision-making and is embedded in our culture.
Our framework is specifically designed to manage the risks that are important to our shareholders, Partners, clients, regulators Risk Management Framework and employees, and to provide reasonable assurance against The Board, through its Risk Committee, takes an active role in material financial misstatement or loss.
overseeing the Risk Management Framework, for which it is responsible.
This framework is the combined processes by Risk management and solvency projections form a key part of the which the Group identifies, assesses, measures, manages and business planning process, including in relation to decisions on monitors the risks that may impact on the successful delivery strategic developments, pricing and dividend payments.
Risk Appetite The Groups ORSA is a central part of this framework, the main The Board chooses carefully the risks it accepts and those it seeks elements of which are shown in the following diagram.
These choices are set out in our Risk Appetite STRATEGY KEY OUTCOMES Risk Appetite Risk Risk Capital Governance Board Identify Assess Standard BRC Formula ExBo Risk Management Processes Group Risk Own ExCo Assessment Other ExCos Monitor Manage Risk Escalation Risk Culture ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 41 The Board Risk Committee BRC comprises Independent Non-executive Board members, and is responsible for ensuring that a culture of effective risk identification and management is fostered across the Group.
A report of its activity during the year can be found on pages 77 to 79.
The BRC is supported by the Executive Board ExBo, but also by the Group Risk Executive and by Risk Management teams at Group and local levels, which take the lead in ensuring an appropriate framework is in place and that there is on-going development and co-ordination of risk management within the Group.
The other executive sub-committees of ExBo the Executive Committees also provide support for the management of risks in their areas of responsibility.
The Risk Management Framework is grounded in the outcomes which are key to our organisation.
These are: CLIENTS PARTNERS FUNDS That we deliver positive That we continue to grow That we treat all of our outcomesfor our increasing and develop the Partnership, stakeholders well population of clients both numbers and skills REGULATORS FINANCIALS & SHAREHOLDERS That we are compliant, have an open That we deliver sustainable and honest relationship with our growth in reported profits on regulators and protect our reputation all measures Whilst clearly a simplification of the business model, this focuses results in additional risk management activities, including, but attention on those things that are of greatest importance, not limited to, stress and scenario testing, loss event recording, and hence indicates where risk management activity should be resolution planning and risk capital management activity.
It also allows the identification of the individuals within the Group responsible for managing these risks.
The different regulated entities in the Group are governed by a number of specific regulations, however, as an Insurance Group Within these outcomes, indicators are used to monitor we are primarily governed by the new Solvency II Directive, performance against risk appetite.
Each indicator has an owner which came into force on 1 January 2016.
As part of these on the Executive Board who is accountable for managing the regulations, we are required to undertake an ORSA for the associated risks and providing regular reports to the Executive Group and each insurance company within the Group.
This enables the Executive Board to maintain effective has been preparing for the new regulations for a number of years, oversight of all outcomes, and to manage any conflicts of interest and has submitted preparatory ORSA reports to our regulators in that arise between them.
2014 and 2015, relating to the periods ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014, respectively.
To ensure a comprehensive risk universe, there is also a bottom-up element to our framework.
Each Division of the The ORSA is directed by the Board and is intended to be Group is responsible for the identification, management and a comprehensive risk assessment, bringing together an quarterly reporting of its own risks, and is supported in this understanding of the risks that the Group faces, in the context by the Risk Management function.
Each risk is assessed by of the strategic plan, and how these risks may change over our considering its potential impact and the likelihood of its planning period.
It also requires quantitative analysis of the capital occurrence, with impact assessments being made against required, and how it might develop over our planning period financial and non-financial metrics.
controls is a core part of the risk management process.
Capital for our insurance companies is based on the Solvency II regulations: separate risk based capital assessments are Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA performed for the other regulated entities.
As a result of these Many of the activities of the Group, and the legal entities in activities we have considered the calculation and allocation of the Group, are regulated.
We have relationships with the UK risk capital to all the major risks in the Group, and the insurance regulators PRA and FCA and the Irish Regulator Central Bank companies in particular, and the adequacy of the capital position.
of Ireland, and with the local regulators in Singapore and Hong Kong.
The nature of our activities and the regulatory focus ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 42 RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Viability Statement Internal Control In accordance with provision C. 2.2. of the UK Corporate The internal control environment in St. Jamess Place is built Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the Groups upon a strong control culture which is underpinned by our current financial position and future prospects over a five year Code of Ethics and organisational delegation of responsibility.
period, and have a reasonable expectation that the Group will The Board has adopted the three lines of defence model for the be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they internal control system, under which the 1st Line is Business fall due over the period of this assessment.
Operations, the 2nd Line is Oversight Functions including Risk Management and Compliance, and the 3rd Line is Independent In reaching this conclusion the Directors have taken into account Assurance.
The purpose of this internal control system is to a number of different strands of work, including: provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives relating to operations, reporting, and compliance.
The Business Plan and associated 2020 Vision document: An assessment of the economic, regulatory, competitive and Management has delegated responsibility to implement and risk environment which was carried out as part of the Boards maintain effective controls, such that the Group operates within strategy review process: and the risk appetite agreed by the Board.
The Audit Committee, on The latest Group ORSA, which is a new requirement under behalf of the Board, monitors the effectiveness of internal controls the Solvency II Directive, and which scope is summarised in across all business areas primarily through the outcomes of the section above.
independent assurance assignments undertaken by Internal Audit.
As a result of this work the Board has concluded that the business Control Self-Assessment model remains appropriate, with no concerns that would Control Self-Assessment CSA is a continuous activity, which has fundamentally threaten the business model or market.
This is a formal summary on an annual basis, and forms a key part of our also supported by the resilience that the Group has demonstrated internal control system.
This self-assessment process requires over recent years and in a variety of different external conditions.
business areas to review their controls regularly, and sign-off on their efficacy, against a standard set of control statements.
A planning period of five years is used both in medium term Collectively these control statements embody the elements business planning and also for the ORSA, and has therefore been required for an organisation to maintain a control framework used for the Code requirement as well, reflecting the horizon across the five components of Control Environment, Risk over which the Board sets medium term strategy.
Assessment, Control Activities, Information & Communication, and Monitoring Activities, as laid down in the internationally The ORSA was particularly useful in assessing viability as it has a accepted COSO control standards.
similar purpose and includes a range of stress tests, which have been performed at the level of the two insurance companies This process is beneficial as it provides confidence that business St. Jamess Place UK Plc and St. Jamess Place International Plc areas can meet their objectives, clarity to support decision as well as at the level of the Group.
The stress tests evaluated the making, and agility in adapting to change and complexity.
impact on the free assets of the Group of a change in key The annual summary of the control self-assessment process assumptions or circumstances.
In all adverse tests, free assets contributes to the year-end Internal Control Evaluation exercise were available, demonstrating the Groups resilience to adverse undertaken by Internal Audit as part of the assurance provision conditions.
Reverse stress tests have also been performed on to the Audit Committee.
liquidity, the results of which indicate that the Group can reasonably expect to have sufficient liquid funds to be able to Financial Reporting Processes meet its liabilities over the planning period.
Specifically in relation to the financial reporting processes, the main features of the internal control systems include: The Group monitors performance against a range of predefined indicators, which will identify if experience over the planning Extensive documentation, operation and assessment of period differs from risk appetite or expectations, allowing controls in key risk areas management action to be taken.
Monthly review and sign-off of all financial accounting data submitted by outsource providers and the results of all subsidiaries within the Group Formal review of financial statements by senior management, for both individual companies and the consolidated Group ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 43 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The following tables summarise the principal risks and uncertainties that are inherent within both the Groups business model and the market in which we operate.
These principal risks and uncertainties, the business outcomes on which they impact, and the high level controls and processes through which we aim to mitigate them, are as follows: NON-FINANCIAL RISKS RISK DESCRIPTION OUTCOME MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS Client Clients invariably rely on members of the Clients, There are many processes in place to mitigate this risk, proposition St. Jamess Place Partnership for the financials including detailed advice guidance, Partner training provision of initial and ongoing advice.
and and accreditation, appropriate incentive structures, Failures in the quality of service provided, shareholders quality checking, client engagement conducted by and in particular any advice failings, could the Client Outcomes team and extensive monitoring lead to redress costs, reputational damage of the internal funds and portfolios.
The Group and regulatory intervention.
guarantees the advice given by Partners and also has appropriate professional indemnity insurance in place.
Competition Competitor activity in the adviser-based Financials This risk is mitigated through ensuring our business is wealth management market may result in and run efficiently, being responsive to the needs of our a reduction in new business volumes, shareholders clients and Partners and seeking continual reduced retention of existing business, improvements to processes.
Charges are benchmarked pressure on margins for both new and against competitors and competitor activity monitored.
existing business, and the potential loss of Regular reports are provided to the Executive Board, Partners and key employees.
allowing action to be taken in a timely manner in the event of a threat to our business model.
The Group offers a diversified product range, including both onshore and offshore investments, and third party relationships are in place to provide access to products which are not manufactured within the Group.
We have a proven track record in Partner acquisition and retention, which we believe would make it difficult for a new entrant to challenge our position.
In addition, our more established Partners often have significant equity stakes in their practices and their ability to access these is structured to aid retention.
Regulatory, The nature of the Group is such that it Regulators, Regulatory and legislative change is largely a risk legislative falls under the influence of regulators and Partners, which cannot be mitigated, although the Group seeks and tax legislators in multiple jurisdictions, a clients, to engage with regulators and policy makers in an open environment growing number given the Groups financials and constructive manner, with the aim that key issues expansion into Asia.
The risks are and impacting the Group are taken into consideration in two-fold: shareholders the drafting of changes.
Our governance structures, management committees and compliance monitoring - New regulatory, legislative or tax activities seek to ensure we remain compliant requirements may result in with regulation.
implementation costs and disruption to business.
- Failure to comply with existing or new applicable regulations could result in a fine or regulatory censure.
Key: Clients Partners Financial Regulation People ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 44 RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued NON-FINANCIAL RISKS CONTINUED RISK DESCRIPTION OUTCOME MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS People and People and the distinctive culture of the People This risk is mitigated through effective leadership, the culture Group play an important part in its implementation of executive and management success.
Over-stretch, the loss of key development initiatives, forward succession planning personnel or unwanted changes to culture and regular surveys and consultation groups.
The latter may therefore impact on this success.
enable us to monitor the sentiment of our staff and Partners and identify any potential adverse impacts upon, or trends within, our culture, and respond appropriately.
Partner Group products are distributed, and Partners The Partner proposition is an area of continual focus, proposition, ongoing advice is provided, exclusively with outputs from regular Partner surveys and other recruitment through the SJP Partnership.
Inadequacies Partner feedback being reflected on an ongoing basis.
and in the range of products, technology or We employ a number of specialist managers specifically retention services offered by the Partnership may to manage the recruitment and retention of high result in inefficiencies and frustration, quality Partners, and a dedicated senior management with consequent loss of Partners and team oversees the SJP Academy, which broadens our client impact, or inability to recruit new recruitment streams.
Formal retention strategies are in Partners.
place to ensure that, wherever possible, we retain good quality and experienced Partners.
All recruitment and retention activity is closely monitored.
Investment Our approach to investment management Clients We actively manage and monitor the performance of Management may fail to deliver expected returns to our investment managers through the Investment Approach clients of the Group.
Committee which also makes use of firms of professional advisers, including respected independent investment research consultancies, Stamford Associates, Redington and AON Consulting, to help them with this key task.
We offer a broad range of funds, which allows client diversification and mitigates our new business, persistency and market risks.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 45 RISK DESCRIPTION OUTCOME MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS Operations The Groups business model involves the Clients, These risks are mitigated by service level agreements, and IT outsourcing of administration to third financials monitoring of administration providers and an effective parties.
Poor service from, or failure of, and information security control framework, including one of these third parties, the failure of an shareholders regular penetration testing exercises.
We remain vigilant IT system, or a significant cyber-attack or to the increasing threat from cyber risks and have also fraud, could lead to disruption of services recently strengthened fraud prevention controls.
We to clients, reputational damage and profit maintain close working relationships with our impacts.
There is also a risk that clients or outsourcing partners, who are central to our business Partners may experience disruption of model.
This enables us to work effectively and efficiently service during the implementation of our together to deliver the best result.
In the extreme event, new third party administration platform.
all our relationships are governed by formal agreements with notice periods and full exit management plans and, if required, strong alternative providers exist in the market.
The business continuity arrangements of each outsourcer are also continually tested and improved and scenario analysis is carried out.
The risk of service disruption on implementation of the new administration platform is being mitigated through diligent quality checking and phased implementations.
Political Changes in the political landscape could Financials In many cases political risk cannot be mitigated, lead to substantial changes in policy, and although the Group seeks engagement with major resulting in significant development costs shareholders political parties and also engages the services of and disruption to the Groups business.
relevant public relations and communications Failure to deliver changes in the required consultants, with the aim that key issues impacting the timescales may lead to reputational Group are taken into consideration in the development damage and loss of new business.
A specific current example of this risk is the potential of Brexit following a referendum.
Investor Failure to communicate effectively with Financials This risk is mitigated through the work of the investor relations new and existing shareholders may lead to and relations team, whose remit is to ensure the falls in the share price and reputational shareholders maintenance of positive relationships with damage.
Key: Clients Partners Financial Regulation People ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 46 RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued FINANCIAL RISKS RISK DESCRIPTION OUTCOME MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS Market risk A reduction in funds may arise from Financials The Group accepts the risk of reduced future profits Loss of market shocks, poor market performance, and as a result of market risk within unit linked and unit Annual or a widening of credit spreads.
Management This would reduce future AMC income, A realistic value has been placed on tax relief Charge and hence future profits.
anticipated from deferred expenses, but it is accepted AMC that, following a market fall, the recovery of this value income It may also result in I-E tax inefficiency for may be deferred over a longer period, thereby reducing SJPUK plc, as the value of deferred tax its value.
assets depends on having sufficient levels of future investment income to provide The use of seeding capital is approved by the relief for the expenses.
Executive Board for each individual fund launch, and shareholder funds are withdrawn as soon as possible, Shareholder assets may be used to seed typically within a few months of launch owing to new funds, leading to direct exposure to predictable fund inflows when new funds are included market movements for short periods after in portfolios.
Insurance A reduction in funds under management Financials Persistency risk is managed through the long-term risk owing to poor persistency would reduce and relationships between Partners and clients.
This may arise from shareholders particular, Partners keep clients informed during factors such as changes in the economic periods of market volatility, and lower-risk funds and climate, poor investment performance, portfolios are available, with no charges for switching.
competitor activity, or reputational The Investment Management Approach involves damage to the Group.
monitoring of fund manager performance, and changes are made where appropriate.
Some of the key sources Adverse mortality or disability of reputational risk and related controls are described experience, in particular higher death in the table above.
claims following an incident or widespread illness, or longer-term Mortality and disability risk is substantially reduced increases in mortality rates, would reduce through the use of reassurance with low retention.
Mortality risk benefits on investment products are generally limited to 1% of invested assets.
Most risk deductions are reviewable and an increase in reassurance rates would be passed on to clients through increases to charges and or premiums within five years.
Expense risk Increased expenses, in particular higher Financials Expenses are controlled through contracts with than expected administration costs, and third party administrators and expense controls at would reduce future profits.
shareholders Group level, so that growth in average per policy expenses is no greater than the rate of increase in the average weekly earnings index.
03183415 Strategic Report St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 47 RISK DESCRIPTION OUTCOME MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS Interest rate Changes in interest rates or the failure of Financials Asset-liability matching reduces interest rate risk on and credit a counterparty may reduce the value of and matching assets and no guarantees are offered.
risks fixed interest assets held to match future shareholders Shareholder funds are invested in high credit rating fixed liabilities, and shareholder assets.
and highly liquid cash and cash-equivalent investments, Key counterparties include reassurers, and only highly rated reinsurers are used.
banks, money market funds, issuers of Partner loans are granted for business purposes, and fixed interest securities, Partners to are secured against income streams on a conservative whom loans have been granted, and multiple and with extensive financial monitoring.
A pre-payment has been made to IFDS in anticipation of future benefits arising from the development of the new Bluedoor administration system.
However, the contract with Bluedoor would enable the Group to continue to use the Bluedoor system in the event of failure of IFDS.
Liquidity Liquidity issues may arise from client Financials Client funds are invested in deep and liquid markets risk requests to switch or withdraw money and and, where investments are less liquid, contractual from unit-linked funds, and through shareholders terms are included, allowing the flexibility to defer events that may require immediate withdrawals.
Sizeable balances of liquid shareholder recourse to shareholder funds.
assets are maintained and the emergence of cash profits is monitored.
Banks propensity to lend in support of Partner loans is also monitored.
Liquidity scenario analysis has been conducted during 2015, to verify the adequacy of the liquidity buffers that are held.
Key: Clients Partners Financial Regulation People ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
