Risk management approach Risk Management Framework Risk governance Effective risk management is fundamental to being able to Ultimate responsibility for setting our risk tolerance boundaries generate profits consistently and sustainably and is therefore and for the effective management of risk rests with the Board.
acentral part of the financial and operational management Acting within an authority delegated by the Board, the Board ofthe Group.
Risk Committee, whose membership exclusively comprises Through our Risk Management Framework we manage non-executive directors of the Group, has responsibility for enterprise-wide risks, with the objective of maximising oversight and review of prudential risks, including but not risk-adjusted returns while remaining within our risk tolerance.
limitedto credit, market, capital, liquidity and operational risks.
Itreviews the Groups overall Risk Tolerance Statement Credit, country cross-border, market, liquidity, operational, andmakes recommendations thereon to the Board.
Its reputational, pension and strategic risk are covered in pages responsibilities also include reviewing the appropriateness and 204 to 217 and the approach to capital risk on pages 218 effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems and to225.
controls, considering the implications of material regulatory As part of this framework, the Board has approved a set of change proposals, ensuring effective due diligence on material principles that describe the risk management culture we wish acquisitions and disposals, and monitoring the activities of tosustain: theGroup Risk Committee and the Group Asset and LiabilityCommittee.
Balancing risk and return The Board Risk Committee receives regular reports on risk We manage our risks to build a sustainable franchise, in the management, including our portfolio trends, policies and interests of all our stakeholders standards, stress testing, liquidity and capital adequacy, and is authorised to investigate or seek any information relating to an We only take risk within our risk tolerances and risk appetite, activity within its terms of reference.
The Board Risk Committee and where consistent with our approved strategy also conducts deep dive reviews on a rolling basis of different We manage our risk profile so as to maintain a low probability sections of a consolidated risk information report that is of an unexpected loss event that would materially undermine provided at each scheduled committee meeting.
the confidence of our investors The Brand, Values and Conduct Committee oversees the brand, values and good reputation of the Group, ensuring that Conduct of business reputational risk is consistent with the Risk Tolerance Statement We demonstrate we are Here for good through our conduct, approved by the Board and the creation of long-term and are mindful of the reputational consequences of shareholder value.
inappropriate conduct The Board Financial Crime Risk Committee oversees the We seek to achieve good outcomes for clients, investors and Groups effective compliance with financial crime regulations.
the markets in which we operate, while abiding by the spirit The Audit Committee reviews the Groups internal financial and letter of laws and regulations controls to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial risks.
We treat our colleagues fairly and with respect Further details on the role of the Board and its committees inmatters of risk governance are covered in the Directors Responsibility and accountability report on pages 85 to 88 We take individual responsibility to ensure risk-taking Executive responsibility for risk management is delegated to the isdisciplined and focused, particularly within our area Standard Chartered Bank Court the Court, which comprises ofauthority the Group executive directors and other directors of Standard We make sure risk-taking is transparent, controlled and Chartered Bank.
reported in line with the Risk Management Framework, The Court is the highest executive body of the Group and its withinrisk appetite and risk tolerance boundaries and only terms of reference are approved by the Board of Standard where there is appropriate infrastructure and resource Chartered PLC.
The Court delegates authority for the Our approach is to work with clients who are committed to management of risk to the Group Risk Committee and the managing their impacts on communities and the environment Group Asset and Liability Committee.
in a sustainable manner The Group Risk Committee is responsible for the management of all risks other than those delegated by the Court to the Group Anticipation Asset and Liability Committee.
The Group Risk Committee We seek to anticipate material future risks, learn lessons from isresponsible for the establishment of, and compliance with, events that have produced adverse outcomes and ensure policies relating to credit risk, country cross-border risk, awareness of known risks marketrisk, operational risk, pension risk and reputational risk.
The Group Risk Committee also defines our overall Risk Competitive advantage Management Framework.
We seek to achieve competitive advantage through efficient The Group Asset and Liability Committee is responsible for and effective risk management and control themanagement of capital and the establishment of, and compliance with, policies relating to balance sheet management, including management of our liquidity, capital adequacy and structural foreign exchange and interest rate exposure and taxexposure.
204 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Risk and capital review How the Standard Chartered Court Committee structure has changed As at 31 December 2015 Approved in 2015 and effective on 1 January 2016 Standard Chartered Bank Court Standard Chartered Bank Court Group Risk Committee Group Asset and Group Risk Committee Group Asset and Liability Committee Liability Committee Global Business Liquidity Management Credit and Market Liquidity Management Risk Committee Committee Risk Committee Committee Group Financial Crime Capital Management Group Operational Capital Management Risk Committee Committee Risk Committee Committee Group Functions Global Balance Sheet Group Financial Crime Global Balance Sheet Operational Committee Risk Committee Committee Risk Committee Group Information Tax Management Group Information Tax Management Management Committee Management Committee Governance Committee Governance Committee Group Pension Risk Committee The Group Risk Committee and the Group Asset and looking assessments, updates on specific risk situations or LiabilityCommittee are essentially unchanged following actions agreed by these committees to reduce or manage risk.
thereorganisation of our business, although the committee Roles and responsibilities for risk management are defined under structures below them have changed in some areas.
Further a Three Lines of Defence model.
Each line of defence describes simplification of the committee structure will be carried out in a specific set of responsibilities for risk management and control.
2016 and some of these changes are discussed in the Capital review on page 225.
First line of defence: all employees are required to ensure the effective management of risks within the scope of their direct Members of the Group Risk Committee and the Group Asset organisational responsibilities.
Business unit, function and and Liability Committee are drawn principally from the Court.
geographic heads are accountable for risk management in The Group Risk Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Risk their respective businesses and functions, and for countries Officer.
The Group Asset and Liability Committee is chaired where they have governance responsibilities bythe Group Chief Financial Officer.
Risk limits and risk exposure approval authority frameworks are set by the Group Second line of defence: this comprises the risk control Risk Committee in respect of credit risk, country cross-border owners, supported by their respective control functions.
risk, market risk and operational risk.
The Group Asset and Riskcontrol owners are responsible for ensuring that the Liability Committee sets the approval authority frameworks in residual risks within the scope of their responsibilities remain respect ofcapital and liquidity risks.
Risk approval authorities within risk tolerance and risk appetite boundaries.
The scope may be exercised by risk committees or authorised individuals.
of a risk control owners responsibilities is defined by a given risk type and the risk management processes that relate to The committee governance structure ensures that risk-taking that risk type.
These responsibilities cut across the Group and authority and risk management policies are cascaded down are not constrained by functional, business and geographic from the Board through to the appropriate functional, client boundaries.
The major risk types are described individually business and country-level senior management and committees.
inthe following sections Information regarding material risk issues and compliance with policies and standards is communicated to the appropriate Third line of defence: the independent assurance provided country, client business, functional and Group-level senior bythe Group Internal Audit function.
Its role is defined and management and committees.
overseen by the Audit Committee of the Board The sources of authorities and risk committees are currently Group Internal Audit provides independent assurance of the under review in light of the adoption of individual accountability effectiveness of managements control of its own business principles under the Senior Managers Regime.
activities the first line and of the processes maintained by the risk control functions the second line.
As a result, Group Internal Audit The Group Risk Committee and Group Asset and Liability provides assurance that the overall system of control effectiveness Committee request for and receive information to fulfil their is working as required within the Risk Management Framework.
governance mandates relating to the risks to which the Group isexposed, and alerts senior management when risk reports The Risk function donot meet their requirements.
Similar to the Board Risk Committee, the Group Risk Committee and Group Asset and The Group Chief Risk Officer directly manages a Risk function Liability Committee receives reports that include information that is separate and independent from the origination, trading onrisk measures, risk tolerances, risk concentrations, forwardand sales functions of the businesses.
205 Risk management approach The role of the Risk function is: The Groups Risk Tolerance Statement, and the related risk tolerance categories approved by the Board, are as follows: To maintain the Risk Management Framework, ensuring it remains appropriate to the Groups activities, is effectively General: the Group will not compromise adherence to its risk communicated and implemented across the Group, and tolerances in order to pursue revenue growth or higher returns toadminister related governance and reporting processes Credit and country cross-border risk: the Group manages To uphold the overall integrity of the Groups risk return itscredit and country cross-border exposures following decisions, and in particular ensure that risks are properly theprinciple of diversification across products, geographies, assessed, that risk return decisions are made transparently client segments and industry sectors.
Specific risk tolerances on the basis of this proper assessment, and controlled in are set for individual and top 20 single-name credit accordance with the Groups standards and risk tolerance concentrations, industry credit concentrations, portfolio tenor, retail unsecured credit risk concentrations, high risk To exercise direct risk control ownership for credit, market, retail unsecured credit risk concentrations, mortgage high country cross-border, short-term liquidity and operational loan-to-value concentrations and country cross-border credit risktypes risk concentrations The independence of the Risk function is to ensure that the Capital and earnings volatility: under stressed conditions, necessary balance in risk return decisions is not compromised of a severity experienced on average once in 25 years, the by short-term pressures to generate revenues.
This is particularly Groups prudential capital ratios on a transitional basis should important given that revenues are recognised from the point of exceed minimum regulatory capital requirements being the sale, while losses arising from risk positions typically manifest level at which the Group can operate without additional themselves over time.
regulatory restrictions on its activities, without recourse to In addition, the Risk function is a centre of excellence that external sources.
Specific tolerances are set for minimum provides specialist capabilities of relevance to risk management Common Equity Tier 1 capital and leverage ratios under processes in the wider organisation.
1-in-25 year stress conditions Market risk: the Group should control its trading portfolio Risk tolerance and appetite andactivities to ensure that market risk losses financial or We recognise three sets of constraints which determine the reputational do not cause material damage to the Groups risks that we are willing to take in pursuit of our strategy and franchise.
Specific tolerances are set for resilience to market thedevelopment of a sustainable business: stress and to profit and loss volatility in Financial Markets Risk capacity defines externally imposed constraints within Liquidity risk: the Group should be able to meet its payment which the Group must operate.
It is the maximum level of and collateral obligations under extreme but plausible liquidity riskthe Group can assume, given its current capabilities stress scenarios without recourse to extraordinary central andresources, before breaching constraints determined bank support.
Specific tolerances are set for liquidity stress byregulatory capital and liquidity requirements, or otherwise survival horizons, short-term wholesale borrowing, minimum failing to meet the expectations of regulators and law advances to deposits and liquidity coverage ratios enforcement agencies Operational risk: the Group aims to control operational risks Risk tolerance is the boundary defined by the Board that to ensure that operational losses financial or reputational, determines the maximum level of risk the Group is ordinarily including any related to conduct of business matters, willing to take in pursuit of its strategy, in accordance with its do not cause material damage to the Groups franchise.
Risk tolerance must constrain risk to the levels Thisstatement is underpinned by risk tolerances for each where the potential for any financial or reputational damage operational top risk.
See page 198 for the list of the Groups isconsistent with the sustained pursuit of strategy and current operational top risks in line with the reasonable expectations of stakeholders.
Reputational risk: the Group will protect its reputation to Risktolerance cannot exceed risk capacity ensure that there is no material damage to the Groups Risk appetite is the amount of risk that the Group regards as franchise optimal in order to generate returns, taking account of current Pension risk: the Group will manage its pension plans and reasonably foreseeable external market conditions.
Risk suchthat: appetite cannot exceed risk tolerance There is no material unexpected deterioration in their The Groups risk profile is our overall exposure to risk, at a funding requirements or other financial metrics givenpoint in time, covering all applicable risk types.
Risk control tools such as exposure limits, underwriting standards, Members benefits will continue in their current form although scorecard cut-offs and policies and other operational control management actions such as a removal of discretionary parameters are used to keep the Groups risk profile within risk benefits are allowable in the case of a market stress event appetite and therefore also risk tolerance and risk capacity.
The Group Risk Committee and the Group Asset and Liability The Board has approved a Risk Tolerance Statement, which Committee are responsible for ensuring that our risk profile isunderpinned by a set of financial and operational control ismanaged in compliance with the risk tolerances set by the parameters, known as risk tolerances.
The Board Risk Committee advises the Board on the directly constrain the aggregate risk exposures that can be Risk Tolerance Statement and monitors that the Group remains taken across the Group.
The number of risk tolerances has in compliance with it.
been increased in 2015 to include further credit and liquidity risktolerances.
In addition, a pension risk tolerance statement and risk tolerances have been introduced for the first time.
206 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Risk and capital review Stress testing tocreditrisk management such as those relating to stress testing, risk measurement and impairment provisioning.
Stress testing and scenario analysis are used to assess the ability of Standard Chartered to continue operating effectively Policies and procedures specific to each client or product under extreme but plausible macrofinancial conditions.
segment are established by authorised bodies.
These are consistent with our Group-wide credit policies, but are more Our approach to stress testing is designed to: detailed and adapted to reflect the different risk characteristics Contribute to the setting and monitoring of Board-level risk across client and product segments.
Policies are regularly tolerance limits reviewed and monitored to ensure these remain effective and consistent with the risk environment and risk appetite.
Contribute to the setting and monitoring of executive-level riskappetite and risk management more generally Credit rating and measurement Identify key risks to our capital and liquidity positions, Risk measurement plays a central role, along with judgement strategy, franchise and reputation and experience, in informing risk-taking and portfolio Support the development of strategic management management decisions.
actionsand contingency plans, including business continuity, Since 1 January 2008, Standard Chartered has used the to ensure the Group can recover from extreme but advanced internal ratings-based AIRB approach under the plausibleconditions Basel II regulatory framework to calculate credit risk capital Meet regulatory requirements requirements.
Stress tests are performed at Group, country and business A standard alphanumeric credit risk grade CG system for level.
Bespoke scenarios are applied to our market and liquidity Corporate & Institutional Clients and Commercial Clients is used.
positions as described in the section on market risk on page The numeric grades run from 1 to 14 and some of the grades 212 and liquidity risk on page 214.
In addition to these, our are further sub-classified.
Lower credit grades are indicative stress tests also focus on the potential impact of macrofinancial, of a lower likelihood of default.
CG 1 to 12 are assigned to geo-political and physical events on relevant geographies, client performing customers or accounts, while CG 13 and 14 are segments and risk types including among others credit risk assigned to non-performing or defaulted customers.
An analysis which is discussed in more detail below.
by CG of those loans that are neither past due nor impaired is set out on pages 172 and 173. Credit risk Retail Clients IRB portfolios use application and behaviour Credit risk is the potential for loss due to the failure of a credit scores that are calibrated to generate a probability of counterparty to meet its obligations to pay the Group in default and then mapped to the standard alphanumeric credit accordance with agreed terms.
Credit exposures arise from risk grade system.
We refer to external ratings from credit both the banking and trading books.
bureaus where these are available, however, we do not rely solely on these to determine Retail Clients CGs.
Credit risk is managed through a framework that sets out policies and procedures covering the measurement and AIRB models cover a substantial majority of our exposures management of credit risk.
There is a clear segregation of andare used in assessing risks at a customer and portfolio duties between transaction originators in the businesses and level, setting strategy and optimising our risk return decisions.
approvers in the Risk function.
All credit exposure limits are Material IRB risk measurement models are approved by the approved within a defined credit approval authority framework.
Credit RiskCommittee, on the recommendation of the Credit The Group manages its credit exposures following the principle Model Assessment Committee.
The Credit Model Assessment of diversification across products, geographies, industries, Committee approves all other IRB risk measurement models, collateral types and client segments.
with all decisions noted to the Credit Risk Committee.
The Credit Model Assessment Committee supports the Credit Risk Credit Risk Committee Committee in ensuring risk identification and measurement capabilities are objective and consistent, so that risk control and The Credit Risk Committee, which receives its ultimate risk origination decisions are properly informed.
Prior to review authority from the Group Risk Committee, is the primary senior bythe Credit Model Assessment Committee, all IRB models are management committee to ensure the effective management of validated in detail by a model validation team, which is separate credit risk throughout the Group in line with risk appetite and in from the teams that develop and maintain the models.
Models support of Group strategy.
The Credit Risk Committee regularly undergo annual periodic review.
Reviews are also triggered if meets to monitor all material credit risk exposures, key internal theperformance of a model deteriorates materially against developments and external trends, and ensure that appropriate predetermined thresholds during the ongoing model action is taken.
It is chaired by the Group Chief Credit Officer.
Credit policies Credit approval and credit risk assessment Group-wide credit policies and standards are considered Major credit exposures to individual counterparties, groups and approved by the Group Risk Committee, which also ofconnected counterparties and portfolios of retail exposures oversees the delegation of credit approval and loan impairment are reviewed and approved by the Credit Approval Committee.
These policies set key control TheCredit Approval Committee is appointed by the Credit Risk standards on credit origination and credit risk assessment, Committee and derives its credit approving authority from the concentration risk and large exposures, credit risk mitigation, Group Risk Committee.
credit monitoring, collection and recovery management.
Inaddition, there are other Group-wide policies integral 207 Risk management approach All other credit approval authorities are delegated by the Group such as motor vehicles, aircraft, plant and machinery: Risk Committee to individuals based both on their judgement marketable securities: commodities: bank guarantees: and and experience and a risk-adjusted scale that takes account letters of credit.
The Group also enters into collateralised ofthe estimated maximum potential loss from a given customer reverse repurchase agreements.
Credit origination and approval roles are segregated In order to be recognised as security and for the loan to in all but a very few authorised cases for Retail Clients.
In those beclassified as secured, all items pledged must be valued very few exceptions where they are not, originators can only independently and an active secondary resale market for the approve limited exposures within defined risk parameters which collateral must exist.
Documentation must be held to enable are subject to oversight from the credit risk function.
theGroup to realise the asset without the cooperation of the All credit proposals are subject to a robust credit risk asset owner in the event that this is necessary.
It includes a comprehensive evaluation of the seeks to diversify its collateral holdings across asset classes clients credit quality, including willingness, ability and capacity and markets.
The primary lending consideration is usually based For certain types of lending, typically mortgages or asset onthe clients credit quality and the repayment capacity from financing where a first charge over the risk mitigant must operating cash flows for counterparties: and personal income beattained, the right to take charge over physical assets is orwealth for individual borrowers.
The risk assessment gives significant in terms of determining appropriate pricing and due consideration to the clients liquidity and leverage position.
recoverability in the event of default.
The requirement for Where applicable, the assessment includes a detailed analysis collateral is, however, not a substitute for the ability to pay, of the credit risk mitigation arrangements to determine the level which is the primary consideration for any lending decisions.
of reliance on such arrangements as the secondary source of repayment in the event of a significant deterioration in a clients Regular valuation of collateral is required in accordance with the credit quality leading to default.
Lending activities that are Groups credit risk mitigation policy, which prescribes both the considered as higher risk or non-standard are subjected to process of valuation and the frequency of valuation for different stricter minimum requirements and require escalation to a collateral types.
The collateral must be independently valued senior credit officer or authorised bodies.
An analysis of the prior to drawdown and regularly thereafter.
The valuation loan portfolio is set out on pages 162 to 167. frequency is typically annually and more frequent valuations aredriven by the level of price volatility of each type of collateral Credit concentration risk and the nature of the underlying product or risk exposure.
Riskmitigation benefits may be removed where the collateral Credit concentration risk may arise from a single large exposure value is not supported by a recent independent valuation.
to a counterparty or a group of connected counterparties, orfrom multiple exposures across the portfolio that are closely For financial collateral to be eligible for recognition, the risk correlated.
mitigant relied upon must be sufficiently liquid and its value overtime sufficiently stable to provide appropriate certainty Large exposure concentration risk is managed through asto the credit protection achieved.
Stress tests are performed concentration limits set by counterparty or group of connected on changes in collateral values for key portfolios to assist counterparties.
seniormanagement in managing the risks in those portfolios.
At the portfolio level, credit concentration thresholds are set Physical collateral is required to be insured at all times against andmonitored to control concentrations, where appropriate, risk of physical loss or damage: insurance for other risks is kept bycountry, industry, product, tenor, collateral type, under review.
collateralisation level and credit risk profile.
Collateral values are, where appropriate, adjusted to reflect For concentrations that are material at a Group level, thresholds current market conditions, the probability of recovery and the are set and monitored by the Credit Risk Committee and period of time to realise the collateral in the event of possession.
reported to the Group Risk and Board Risk Committees.
Where guarantees or credit derivatives are used as credit risk mitigation, the creditworthiness of the guarantor is assessed Credit risk mitigation and established using the credit approval process in addition Potential credit losses from any given account, client or portfolio tothat of the obligor or main counterparty.
The main types are mitigated using a range of tools such as collateral, netting ofguarantors include banks, insurance companies, parent agreements, credit insurance, credit derivatives taking into companies, shareholders and export credit agencies.
account expected volatility and guarantees.
The reliance that can be placed on these mitigants is carefully assessed in light Traded products ofissues such as legal certainty and enforceability, market Credit risk from traded products is managed within the overall valuation correlation and counterparty risk of the guarantor.
credit risk appetite for corporates and financial institutions.
The Group credit risk mitigation policy determines the key The credit risk exposure from traded products derives from considerations for eligibility, enforceability and effectiveness thepositive mark-to-market value of the underlying instruments, ofcredit risk mitigation arrangements.
and an additional component to cater for potential future The Group has policies and procedures in place setting out the marketmovements.
criteria for collateral to be recognised as a credit risk mitigant, The Group uses bilateral and multilateral netting to reduce including requirements concerning legal certainty, priority, pre-settlement and settlement counterparty risk.
Pre-settlement concentration, correlation, liquidity and valuation parameters risk exposures are normally netted using bilateral netting such as frequency of review and independence.
documentation in legally approved jurisdictions.
Settlement Collateral types that are eligible for risk mitigation include: cash: exposures are generally netted using Delivery versus Payments residential, commercial and industrial property: fixed assets or Payment versus Payments systems.
Master netting 208 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Risk and capital review agreements are generally enforced only in the event of default.
Typically, all Corporate & Institutional Clients, Commercial In line with International Accounting Standards IAS 32, Clients and Private Banking Clients past due accounts are derivative exposures are presented on a net basis in the managed by GSAM.
financial statements only if there is a legal right to offset and For Retail Clients exposures, portfolio delinquency trends are there is intent to settle on a net basis or realise the assets and monitored continuously at a detailed level.
behaviour is also tracked and considered for lending decisions.
In addition, we enter into credit support annexes CSAs with Accounts that are past due are subject to a collections process, counterparties where collateral is deemed a necessary or managed independently by the Risk function.
Charged-off desirable mitigant to the exposure.
Further details on CSAs accounts are managed by specialist recovery teams.
In some areset out on page 170. countries, aspects of collections and recovery functions areoutsourced.
Securities Loan impairment The portfolio limits and parameters for the underwriting andpurchase of all predefined securities assets to be held A loan is impaired when we believe that we will not recover forsale are approved by the Underwriting Committee.
The aportion of the contractual cash flows.
Specific definitions Underwriting Committee is established under the authority ofwhen a loan is deemed as impaired are discussed in the ofthe Credit Risk Committee.
The business operates within following sections for Retail Clients as well as Corporate & setlimits, which include country, single issuer, holding period Institutional, Commercial and Private Banking Clients.
The Groups loan loss provisions are established to recognise Day-to-day credit risk management activities for traded incurred impairment losses either on specific loan assets or securities are carried out by a specialist team within the Risk within a portfolio of loans and advances.
Individually impaired function whose activities include oversight and approval within loans are those loans against which individual impairment the levels delegated by the Underwriting Committee.
Issuer provisions IIP have been raised.
credit risk, including settlement and pre-settlement risk, and Estimating the amount and timing of future recoveries involves price risk are controlled by the Risk function.
significant judgement, and considers the level of arrears as The Underwriting Committee approves individual proposals wellas the assessment of matters such as future economic tounderwrite new security issues for our clients.
Where an conditions and the value of collateral, for which there may not underwritten security is held for a period longer than the target be a readily accessible market.
sell-down period, the final decision on whether to sell the Loan losses that have been incurred but have not been position rests with the Risk function.
separately identified at the balance sheet date are determined by taking into account past loss experience as a result of Credit monitoring uncertainties arising from the economic environment, and We regularly monitor credit exposures, portfolio performance, defaults based on portfolio trends.
Actual losses identified and external trends that may impact risk management coulddiffer significantly from the impairment provisions outcomes.
reported, for example, as a result of uncertainties arising fromthe economic environment.
Internal risk management reports are presented to risk committees, containing information on key environmental, The total amount of the Groups impairment provision is political and economic trends across major portfolios and inherently uncertain, being sensitive to changes in economic countries: portfolio delinquency and loan impairment and credit conditions across the geographies in which the performance: and IRB portfolio metrics including credit grade Group operates.
Economic and credit conditions are migration.
interdependent within each geography and as a result there isno single factor to which the Groups loan impairment Credit risk committees meet regularly to assess the impact of allowances as a whole are sensitive.
It is possible that actual external events and trends on the Groups credit risk portfolios events over the next year differ from the assumptions built into and to define and implement our response in terms of our model, resulting in material adjustments to the carrying appropriate changes to portfolio shape, portfolio and amount of loans and advances.
underwriting standards, risk policy and procedures.
Clients or portfolios are placed on early alert when they display Retail Clients signs of actual or potential weakness, for example, where there For Retail Clients portfolios, an account is considered impaired is a decline in the clients position within the industry, financial when it meets certain defined threshold conditions in terms of deterioration, a breach of covenants, non-performance of an overdue payments contractual impairment or meets other obligation within the stipulated period, or there are concerns objective conditions such as bankruptcy, debt restructuring, relating to ownership or management.
A loan is considered delinquent or past due, Such accounts and portfolios are subjected to a dedicated when the customer has failed to make a principal or interest process overseen by Credit Issues Committees in countries.
payment in accordance with the loan contract.
These threshold Client account plans and credit grades are re-evaluated.
In conditions are defined in policy and are set at the point where addition, remedial actions are agreed and monitored.
Remedial empirical evidence suggests that the client is unlikely to meet actions include, but are not limited to, exposure reduction, their contractual obligations or a loss of principal is expected.
security enhancement, exiting the account or immediate Portfolio impairment provisions PIP cover the inherent losses movement of the account into the control of Group Special inthe portfolio that exist at the balance sheet date but have Assets Management GSAM, our specialist recovery unit.
Considerations applied in 209 Risk management approach determining the appropriate level of portfolio provisions include For further details on Corporate & Institutional, Commercial historic loss experience, loss emergence periods, risk indicators andPrivate Banking Clients see page 172 and page 181. such as delinquency rates, and the potential impact of existing external conditions.
Some of these factors require judgemental Renegotiated and forborne loans overlays.
PIPs take into account the fact that, while delinquency In certain circumstances, the Group may renegotiate client loans.
is an indication of impairment, not all delinquent loans particularly those in the early stages of delinquency will in fact Loans that are renegotiated for commercial reasons, such as be impaired.
This will only become apparent with the passage when a client had a credit rating upgrade, are not included as of time and as we investigate the causes of delinquency on a part of renegotiated and forborne loans because they are not case-by-case basis.
indicative of any credit stress.
It is on this basis that Retail Client accounts are considered Loans that are renegotiated primarily to grant extended tenor impaired when a credit obligation is at 150 days past due.
toa client who is facing some difficulties but who we do not Thereare, however, exceptions to this rule for portfolios where believe is impaired are reported as Other renegotiated loans.
empirical evidence suggests that they should be set more Loans thatare renegotiated on terms that are not consistent conservatively.
with those readily available in the market and or where we have granted aconcession compared to the original terms of the The core components of the IIP calculation are the value loans, areconsidered to be subject to forbearance strategies ofgross charge off and recoveries.
Gross charge off and or and are disclosed as Loans subject to forbearance, which is provisions are recognised when it is established that the asub set of impaired loans.
account is unlikely to pay, either through past due or any other specific condition.
Recovery of unsecured debt post-impairment Forbearance strategies assist clients who are temporarily in is recognised based on actual cash collected, either directly financial distress and are unable to meet their original contractual from clients or through the sale of defaulted loans to third-party repayment terms.
Forbearance can be initiated by the client, institutions.
Provision release of secured loans post-impairment thebank or a third party including government-sponsored is recognised if the loan outstanding is paid in full release of full programmes or a conglomerate of credit institutions and provision, or the provision is higher than the loan outstanding includes debt restructuring, such as a new repayment schedule, release of the excess provision, or the loan is paid to current payment deferrals, tenor extensions and interest only payments.
and remains in current for more than 180 days release of Once a loan is subject to forbearance or is renegotiated, the fullprovision.
loan continues to be reported as such, until the loan matures For further details on Retail Clients see page 172 to 181. oris otherwise derecognised.
For Retail Clients, all loans subject to forbearance in addition Corporate & Institutional, Commercial and Private toother renegotiated loans are managed within a separate Banking Clients portfolio.
If such loans subsequently become past due, Loans are classified as impaired where analysis and review charge-off and IIP is accelerated to 90 days past due for indicate that full payment of either interest or principal is unsecured loans and automobile finance or 120 days past due questionable, or as soon as payment of interest or principal for secured loans.
The accelerated loss rates applied to this is90 days overdue.
Impaired accounts are managed by portfolio are derived from experience with other renegotiated ourspecialist recovery unit, GSAM, which is separate from loans, rather than the Retail Clients portfolio as a whole, to ourmainbusinesses.
Where any amount is considered recognise the greater degree of inherent risk.
irrecoverable, an IIP is raised.
This provision is the difference For Corporate & Institutional, Commercial and Private Banking between the loan-carrying amount and the present value Clients, forbearance and other renegotiations are applied on ofestimated future cash flows.
acase-by-case basis and are not subject to business-wide The individual circumstances of each client are taken into programmes.
In some cases, a new loan is granted as part of account when GSAM estimates future cash flows.
All available the restructure, in others, the contractual terms and repayment sources, such as cash flow arising from operations, selling of the existing loans are changed or extended for example, assets or subsidiaries, realising collateral or payments under interest-only for a period.
In any decision relating to Loans classified as subject to forbearance are managed by theraising of provisions, we attempt to balance economic GSAM and are kept under close review to assess the clients conditions, local knowledge and experience, and the results ability to adhere to the restructured repayment strategy and ofindependent asset reviews.
toidentify any events that could result in a deterioration in the Where it is considered that there is no realistic prospect clients ability to repay.
ofrecovering a portion of an exposure against which an If the terms of the renegotiation are such that, where the impairment provision has been raised, that amount will be present value of the new cash flows is lower than the present written off.
value of the original cash flows, the loan would be considered As with Retail Clients, a PIP is held to cover the inherent risk tobe impaired and, at a minimum, a discount provision would oflosses which, although not identified, are known through be raised and shown under loans subject to forbearance.
experience to be present in any loan portfolio.
This is set with Theseaccounts are monitored as described on page 209. reference to historical loss rates and subjective factors such Renegotiated and forborne loans are disclosed by client asthe economic environment and the trends in key portfolio segments on page 174. indicators.
The PIP methodology provides for accounts for which an IIP has not been raised.
210 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Risk and capital review Country cross-border risk unaudited isresponsible for setting business and desk-level value at risk VaR and stress loss triggers for market risk within the levels Country cross-border risk is the risk that we will be unable to set by the Group Risk Committee.
The Market and Traded obtain payment from our customers or third parties on their Credit Risk Committee is also responsible for policies and contractual obligations as a result of certain actions taken standards for the control of market risk and overseeing their byforeign governments, chiefly relating to convertibility and ongoing effectiveness.
These policies cover both trading and transferability of foreign currency.
non-trading books of the Group.
The Group Risk Committee is responsible for our country The Market and Traded Credit Risk function approves the limits cross-border risk limits and delegates the setting and within delegated authorities and monitors exposures against management of those limits to the Group Country Risk function.
Additional limits are placed on specific instruments The business heads and country chief executive officers manage and position concentrations where appropriate.
Sensitivity exposures within these limits and policies.
Countries designated measures are used in addition to VaR as risk management as higher risk are subject to increased central monitoring.
For example, interest rate sensitivity is measured in terms Assets that generate country cross-border exposure are those of exposure to a one basis point increase in yields, whereas where the main source of repayment or security is derived from foreign exchange, commodity and equity sensitivities are a country other than the country in which the asset is booked.
measured in terms of the underlying values or amounts These cover a wide range of products, including loans and involved.
Option risks are controlled through revaluation limits advances, interest-bearing deposits with other banks, trade on underlying price and volatility shifts, limits on volatility risk andother bills, acceptances, amounts receivable under finance and other variables that determine the options value.
leases, derivatives, certificates of deposit and other negotiable paper, investment securities and formal commitments.
VaR Cross-border assets also include exposures to local residents We measure the risk of losses arising from future potential denominated in currencies other than the local currency adverse movements in market rates, prices and volatilities using andlocal-currency assets funded by intra-group funding.
VaR, in general, is a quantitative measure Cross-border exposure also includes the value of commodity, of market risk that applies recent historical market conditions aircraft and shipping assets owned by the Group that are held toestimate the potential future loss in market value that will not in a given country.
be exceeded in a set time period at a set statistical confidence level.
VaR provides a consistent measure that can be applied Market risk across trading businesses and products over time and can be Market risk is the potential for loss of earnings or economic set against actual daily trading profit and loss outcome.
value due to adverse changes in financial market rates or prices.
VaR is calculated for expected movements over a minimum The Groups exposure to market risk arises predominantly from ofone business day and to a confidence level of 97.5 per cent.
providing clients access to financial markets, facilitation of This confidence level suggests that potential daily losses, which entails the Group taking moderate market risk positions.
inexcess of the VaR measure, are likely to be experienced All trading teams support client activity: there are no proprietary sixtimes per year.
Hence, income earned from market risk-related activities is primarily driven by the volume of client activity rather We apply two VaR methodologies: than risk-taking.
Market risk also arises in the non-trading book Historical simulation: involves the revaluation of all existing from the requirement to hold a large liquid assets buffer of positions to reflect the effect of historically observed changes high-quality liquid debt securities and from the translation of in market risk factors on the valuation of the current portfolio.
non-US dollar denominated assets, liabilities and earnings.
This approach is applied for general market risk factors and The primary categories of market risk for the Group are: the majority of specific credit spread risk VaR Interest rate risk: arising from changes in yield curves, credit Monte Carlo simulation: this methodology is similar to spreads and implied volatilities on interest rate options historical simulation but with considerably more input risk factor observations.
These are generated by random Currency exchange rate risk: arising from changes in sampling techniques, but the results retain the essential exchange rates and implied volatilities on foreign exchange variability and correlations of historically observed risk factor rate options changes.
This approach is applied for some of the specific Commodity price risk: arising from changes in commodity credit spread risk VaR in relation to idiosyncratic exposures prices and commodity option implied volatilities: covering in credit markets energy, precious metals, base metals and agriculture In both methods a historical observation period of one year Equity price risk: arising from changes in the prices of ischosen and applied.
equities, equity indices, equity baskets and implied volatilities VaR is calculated as our exposure as at the close of business, on related options generally UK time.
Intra-day risk levels may vary from those reported at the end of the day.
Market risk governance A small proportion of market risk generated by trading positions The Board approves the Groups risk tolerances for market risk.
is not included in VaR or cannot be appropriately captured by VaR.
Subject to the risk tolerances set for market risk, the Group This is recognised through a Risks-not-in-VaR RNIV framework, RiskCommittee sets Group-level market risk limits and stress which estimates these risks and applies capital add-ons.
To assess their predictive power, VaR models are backtested The Market and Traded Credit Risk Committee, under against actual results.
authority ultimately delegated by the Group Risk Committee, 211 Risk management approach See an analysis of VaR and backtesting results in 2015 Group Treasury market risk onpages 187 to 188.
Group Treasury raises debt and equity capital and the proceedsare placed with ALM.
Interest rate risk arises due to Stress testing the investment of equity and reserves into rate-sensitive assets, Losses beyond the 97.5 per cent confidence interval are not as well as some tenor mismatches between debt issuance and captured by a VaR calculation, which therefore gives no placements.
This risk is measured as the impact on net interest indication of the size of unexpected losses in these situations.
income NII of an unexpected and instantaneous adverse parallel shift in rates and is monitored over a rolling one-year Market and Traded Credit Risk complements the VaR time horizon.
Further details are disclosed on page 190 of the measurement by weekly stress testing of market risk exposures Risk profile section.
to highlight the potential risk that may arise from extreme market events that are rare but plausible.
These risks are monitored and controlled by the Groups Capital Management Committee.
Stress testing is an integral part of the market Risk Management Framework and considers both historical market events and Group Treasury also manages the structural foreign exchange forward-looking scenarios.
A consistent stress-testing risk that arises from non-US dollar currency net investments methodology is applied to trading and non-trading books.
The impact of foreign exchange Thestress-testing methodology assumes that scope for movements is taken to reserves which form part of the capital management action would be limited during a stress event, base.
The effect of exchange rate movements on the capital reflecting the decrease in market liquidity that often occurs.
ratio is partially mitigated by the fact that both the value of these investments and the risk-weighted assets in those currencies Stress scenarios are regularly updated to reflect changes in follow broadly the same exchange rate movements.
With the riskprofile and economic events.
The Market and Traded Credit approval of the Capital Management Committee, Group Risk function reviews stress exposures and, where necessary, Treasury may hedge the net investments if it is anticipated that enforces reductions in overall market risk exposure.
The Group the capital ratio will be materially affected by exchange rate Risk Committee considers the results of stress tests as part of movements.
Changes in the valuation of these positions are its supervision of risk tolerance.
Further details are disclosed on page 190 Regular stress-test scenarios are applied to interest rates, credit ofthe Risk profile section.
spreads, exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices.
This covers all asset classes in the Financial Markets banking Derivatives and trading books.
Derivatives are contracts with characteristics and value derived Ad hoc scenarios are also prepared, reflecting specific market from underlying financial instruments, interest and exchange conditions and for particular concentrations of risk that arise rates or indices.
They include futures, forwards, swaps and within the business.
Derivatives are an important risk management tool for banks and their clients because they Market risk VaR coverage canbe used to manage market price risk.
The market risk of derivatives is managed in essentially the same way as other Interest rate risk from non-trading book portfolios is transferred traded products.
to Financial Markets where it is managed by local Asset and Liability Management ALM desks under the supervision of Our derivative transactions are principally in instruments where local Asset and Liability Committees.
ALM deals in the market the mark-to-market values are readily determinable by reference in approved financial instruments in order to manage the net to independent prices and valuation quotes.
See details of the interest rate risk, subject to approved VaR and risk limits.
Groups derivative financial instruments in note 17 on pages 283 and 284.
VaR and stress tests are therefore applied to these non-trading book exposures except Group Treasury, see below in the We enter into derivative contracts in the normal course of same way as for the trading book, including available-for-sale business to meet client requirements and to manage our securities.
Securities classed as Loans and Receivables or exposure to fluctuations in market price movements.
Held-to-maturity are not reflected in VaR or stress tests since Derivatives are carried at fair value and shown in the balance they are accounted for on an amortised cost basis, so market sheet as separate totals of assets and liabilities when there is price movements have limited effect on either profit and loss nolegal right to offset and no intent to settle on a net basis or orreserves.
realise the assets and liabilities simultaneously.
Recognition of Structural foreign exchange risks are managed by Group fair value gains and losses depends on whether the derivatives Treasury, as described below, and are not included within are classified as trading or held for hedging purposes.
Otherwise, the non-trading book does not run The credit risk arising from all financial derivatives is managed openforeign exchange positions.
as part of the overall lending limits to financial institutions and Equity risk relating to non-listed private equity and strategic corporate clients.
This is covered in more detail in the Credit risk investments is not included within VaR.
It is separately section on pages 207 to 209. managed through delegated limits for both investment anddivestment, and is also subject to regular review by Hedging aninvestment committee.
The Group use futures, forwards, swaps and options primarily These are included as Level 3 assets, as disclosed in note 15 to mitigate interest and foreign exchange risk arising from to the financial statements on pages 268 and 269 in-country exposures.
See details of the Groups derivatives held for hedging in note 17 on page 283.
212 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Risk and capital review In accounting terms under IAS 39, hedges are classified into swapped to local currency and vice versa.
Such limits control three types: fair value hedges, predominantly where fixed rates the risk that obligations could not be met in the required of interest or foreign exchange are exchanged for floating rates: currency in the event that access to foreign exchange markets cash flow hedges, predominantly where variable rates of becomes restricted.
In sizing the limits we consider a range of interest or foreign exchange are exchanged for fixed rates: factors including the size and depth of local foreign exchange andhedges of net investments in overseas operations translated markets and the local regulatory environment.
to the parent companys functional currency, dollars.
Liquidity risk framework We may also, under certain individually approved circumstances, enter into economic hedges that do not The Board sets liquidity risk tolerance levels for liquidity stress qualify for IAS 39 hedge accounting treatment, and which are survival horizons, short-term wholesale borrowing, minimum accordingly marked-to-market through the profit and loss advances-to-deposits and liquidity coverage ratios.
The Group account, thereby creating an accounting asymmetry.
These are Asset and Liability Committee may set risk appetite levels such entered into primarily to ensure that residual interest rate and that the Group operates within the Boards tolerance.
foreign exchange risks are being effectively managed.
Current For stress survival horizons, the Boards tolerance reflects the economic hedge relationships include hedging the foreign Groups specific structure, which comprises a number of large exchange risk on certain debt issuances and on other monetary presence countries that are systemically important, both to the instruments held in currencies other than dollars.
Group and the global economy, as well as a large number of smaller presence countries whose liquidity is less material to Liquidity risk theGroup but which may be primarily at risk in a local systemic Liquidity risk is the risk that we either do not have sufficient stress.
The Group intends to maintain a prudent and sustainable financial resources available to meet our obligations as they funding and liquidity position, in all presence countries and fall due, or can only access these financial resources at currencies, such that it can withstand severe liquidity stress: excessive cost.
Across major presence countries, the Group intends to be It is our policy to maintain adequate liquidity and funding at all able to meet its payment and collateral obligations for at least times, in all geographic locations and for all currencies, and 60 days in a combined name-specific and market-wide hence to be in a position to meet obligations as they fall due.
liquidity stress, without recourse to extraordinary central We manage liquidity risk both on a short term and structural banksupport basis.
In the short term, our focus is on ensuring that the cash In smaller presence countries, each operating entity should flow demands can be met when required.
In the medium to long be able to meet its payment and collateral obligations for at term, the focus is on ensuring that the balance sheet remains least 60 days in the event of a systemic market-wide stress structurally sound and is aligned to our funding strategy.
inthat country, without implicit reliance on Group support The Board establishes tolerances for liquidity risk, which In accordance with Group Asset and Liability Committee arecascaded to the business for day-to-day management.
policies, there are further limits set for each country on: TheGroup Asset and Liability Committee approves liquidity risk The local and foreign currency cash flow gaps policies and is responsible for setting or delegating authority toset liquidity limits, within the Boards tolerance.
The Liquidity The level of borrowing from other countries within the Group, Management Committee currently receives authority from the to contain the risk of contagion from one country to another Group Asset and Liability Committee and is responsible for Commitments, to ensure there are sufficient funds available proposing liquidity risk policies.
Liquidity in each country is managed by the country Asset and Liability Committee, inthe event of drawdown supported by the ALM function.
Countries operate within The amount of assets that may be funded from other predefined liquidity limits and in compliance with Group liquidity currencies policies and practices, as well as local regulatory requirements.
Market and Traded Credit Risk and Group Treasury propose The amount of medium-term assets that have to be funded by medium-term funding and oversee the implementation of policies and other controls relating to liquidity risks.
All limits are reviewed at least annually, and more frequently We seek to manage our liquidity prudently in all geographical ifrequired, to ensure that they remain relevant given market locations and for all currencies.
Exceptional market events conditions and business strategy.
Compliance with limits is could impact us adversely, thereby potentially affecting our monitored independently on a regular basis by Market and ability to fulfil our obligations as they fall due.
The principal Traded Credit Risk and Group Treasury.
Limit excesses are uncertainties for liquidity risk are that customers withdraw their escalated and approved under a delegated authority structure deposits at a substantially faster rate than expected, or that and reported to the country Asset and Liability Committee.
asset repayments are not received on the expected maturity Excesses are also reported monthly to the Liquidity date.
To mitigate these uncertainties, we seek to maintain a Management Committee and if necessary to the Group Asset diverse and largely customer-driven funding base, while our and Liability Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
customer loans are mostly of short tenor.
In addition, we have We have significant levels of marketable securities, including contingency funding plans including a portfolio of liquid assets government securities that can be monetised or pledged as that can be realised if a liquidity stress occurs, as well as ready collateral in the event of a liquidity stress.
In addition, a Funding access to wholesale funds under normal market conditions.
Crisis Response and Recovery Plan FCRRP, reviewed and approved annually, is maintained by Group Treasury.
The Customer assets are, as far as possible, funded in the same currency.
Where mismatches arise, they are controlled by limits FCRRP also includes a broad set of Early Warning Indicators EWIs, an escalation framework and a set of management in each country on the amount of foreign currency that can be 213 Risk management approach actions that could be effectively implemented by the appropriate crimecompliance and information management respectively.
level of senior management in the event of a liquidity stress.
These risk committees receive regular reports on the Groups Asimilar plan is maintained within each major country.
Stress testing Internal organisation Three Lines of Defence In addition to monitoring the Boards stress survival horizon To implement the operational risk management approach metrics described above, the Group conducts a range of in the Group, the Group applies the Three Lines of Defence, liquidity-related stress analyses, both for internal and asset out in the Risk Management Framework and explained regulatorypurposes.
Internally, at country level a more granular analysis of survival The first line of defence has responsibility for identifying and horizons considers potential currency mismatches between managing all risks within first line processes as an integral part stress outflows and inflows.
Particular focus is paid to of first line responsibilities.
mismatches in less liquid currencies and those that are not Group Operational Risk as second line of defence is responsible freely convertible.
This is overseen by country Asset and for setting and maintaining the standards for the operational risk Liability Committees.
Group-wide stress tests also consider management approach.
In addition, the second line of defence theportability of liquidity surpluses between major presence comprises both second line risk control owners of each countries, taking account of regulatory restrictions on operational risk sub-type and second line Group policy owners.
cross-border movement of funds and intra-group exposures.
Asevere eight-day name-specific stress is also run routinely, The third line of defence is the independent assurance provided aswell as a 30-day stress that is run in major presence by the Group Internal Audit function.
countries to test resilience to market-wide disruption, such as ininterbank money or foreign exchange markets.
Liquidity risks Risk tolerance approach are also considered as part of the Groups wider periodic Operational risk is managed within tolerances aligned to scenario analysis, including reverse stress testing.
The Group achieve the Risk Tolerance Statement approved by the Board.
also runs a range of stress tests to meet regulatory The Group aims to control operational risks to ensure that requirements, as defined by the PRA and local regulators.
operational losses financial or reputational, including any Country stress testing considers potential currency mismatches related to conduct of business matters, do not cause material between outflows and inflows.
Particular focus is paid to damage to the Groups franchise.
mismatches in less liquid currencies and those that are not In order to comply with this statement, the operational risk freely convertible.
Mismatches are controlled by management management approach includes the following requirements: action triggers set by Market and Traded Credit Risk.
Group-wide stress tests also consider the portability of liquidity The Group will systematically identify top risks and emerging surpluses between Group entities, taking account of regulatory risks with the involvement of senior management and the restrictions on large and intra-group exposures.
Board, and define the appropriate treatment which may include business restrictions Standard Chartered Banks credit ratings as at December 2015 were A with negative outlook Fitch, A S&P and Aa2 under All processes will be mapped and owned with appropriate key control standards defined to mitigate risks review: possible downgrade Moodys.
A downgrade in credit rating would increase derivative collateral requirements and The Group will not miss any opportunity to learn lessons outflows due to rating-linked liabilities.
One possible outcome frominternal or external events and will implement relevant ofa two-notch downgrade could be an estimated outflow of mitigation actions $1.7 billion unaudited.
The Group will systematically test internal capital adequacy through scenario analysis and stress testing Operational risk unaudited We define operational risk as the potential for loss resulting from Risk classification inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems orfrom the impact of external events, including legal risks.
Operational risk sub-types are the different ways that we maybe operationally exposed to loss.
Each risk sub-type As operational risk arises from all activities carried out within the isagrouping of potential losses that are material, and which Group, the potential for operational risk events occurring across may arise in different activities or areas of the Group.
a large and complex international organisation is a constant The Group uses operational risk sub-types principally as an challenge.
To address this we aim to achieve industrial strength process and control design standards for all activities, aidto ensure comprehensive and consistent identification of operational risks, wherever they may arise.
Operational risk and benchmark practices against peers, other industries and regulatory requirements.
sub-types are listed in the table on the following page.
Operational risk governance The Group Risk Committee provides oversight of operational risk management across the Group.
It is supported by the Global Business Risk Committee, the Group Functions Operational Risk Committee, the Group Financial Crime RiskCommittee and the Group Information Management Governance Committee, which oversee operational risk arising from the global businesses and Group functions, financial 214 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Risk and capital review Operational risk sub-types External rules and Potential for actual or opportunity loss due to failure to comply with laws or regulations, or as a result regulations ofchanges in laws or regulations or in their interpretation or application Liability Potential for loss or sanction due to a legal claim against any part of the Group or individuals within theGroup Legal enforceability Potential for loss due to failure to protect legally the Groups interests or from difficulty in enforcing the Groups rights Damage or loss of Potential for loss or damage or denial of use of property or other physical assets physicalassets Safety and security Potential for loss or damage relating to health and safety or physical security Internal fraud or dishonesty Potential for loss due to action by staff that is intended to defraud, or to circumvent the law or company policy External fraud Potential for loss due to criminal acts by external parties such as fraud or theft of financial assets Information security Potential for loss due to unauthorised access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification or destruction ofinformation Processing failure Potential for loss due to failure of an established process or a process design weakness Model Potential for loss due to a significant discrepancy between the output of credit and market risk measurement models and actual experience Potential for regulatory breach due to a significant discrepancy between the output of financial crime clientrisk scoring and financial crime transaction monitoring models and actual experience Operational risk management approach Stress testing The Group defines and maintains a complete process universe As part of our operational risk management approach, we for all client segments, products and functions processes.
conduct stress testing by scenario analysis for the Group.
The process universe is the complete list of end-to-end In 2015, we participated in the Bank of England stress test processes that collectively describe the activities of the Group andthe annual Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
and is the reference for the application of the operational risk The exercises included judgemental overlays for the potential management approach.
risk of low-frequency, high-severity events occurring during stress conditions.
This represents all Group activities, the owners of these activities, and the risk and control standards that are defined In addition to macroeconomic scenarios, the Operational risk byrisk and process owners.
It also serves as the foundation scenario analysis programme reviews concentration of risks forpolicy delivery, as well as risk identification, measurement, across the Groups processes and prioritises low-frequency management and reporting.
The operational risk management high-severity scenarios to assess the potential impact that may approach requires: exceed the Groups risk tolerances.
During 2015, the scenario analysis programme conducted 11 scenarios.
These scenarios Industrial strength process design standards are applied included anti-money laundering, sanctions, information and tocritical processes cyber security and change management.
Control tolerance standards are set for each control forquantity, materiality and timeliness of detection and Conduct rectification of defects Conduct of business, or conduct, is a term that is used in a All processes are standardised except for regulatory broad number of ways across the financial services industry.
orlegitimate system exceptions Atits broadest, good conduct is the creation of an appropriate business strategy aligned to our stated risk tolerance and the Gross and residual risk assessments by first line and execution of business in accordance with both.
More narrowly, approved by second line it refers to specific regulations designed to achieve fair Risk and control monitoring outcomes for customers and the effective operation of markets.
Prompt execution of risk treatment actions to closure Good conduct is evidenced through disciplined adherence to our overall framework of systems and controls outlined in the The operational risk management approach has been installed Risk Management Framework and the standards of individual for prioritised risks across all countries as part of the behaviour set out in the Code of Conduct the Code.
Operational Risk Framework Implementation Programme.
215 Risk management approach Specifically for operational risk: Reflecting the differing regulatory and legislative frameworks applicable to clients in the Groups markets, we have global External rules and regulations classifications defined in the sector-specific environmental and social E&S standards as set Operational Risk Framework include specific categories of out in our 17 sectoral and three thematic position statements.
regulation designed to achieve fair outcomes for clients We apply these in the provision of financial services to clients clientconduct and the effective operation of markets who operate in sectors presenting specific risks, and for key marketconduct.
This ensures that each category of issues.
These are underpinned by the Equator Principles and regulation is properly classified and aligned to the Groups the IFC Performance Standards.
Risk control owners and Group policy owners are responsible for defining the Groups The Group recognises that stakeholder expectations of our minimum standards and controls in respect of each category.
environmental and social risk management will change over The Groups policies and standards may frequently exceed time.
As such we seek to explain our approach and standards the minimum requirements or expectations of regulators via our position statements, and to ensure they remain appropriate through active monitoring.
Conduct is considered in the Groups top risks see Risk profile on page 198.
The Group aims to prevent the risks of We take our position statement commitments seriously.
failure to deliver the conduct of business standards expected Toensure we deliver our commitments, we embed these by the Groups clients, investors and markets in which we requirements through our core banking processes.
Many of the top risks can be driven by poor conduct mechanisms in our origination and credit processes to identify so the Group is focused on its control standards around and assess environmental and social risks in accordance with these risks our standards.
We have a dedicated Environmental and Social Risk Management ESRM team that reviews clients and Reputational risk unaudited proposed transactions that present specific risks.
For more information on our environmental and social risk Reputational risk is the potential for damage to the Groups assessment please refer to on.
com eandsrisk franchise, resulting in loss of earnings or adverse impact on market capitalisation as a result of stakeholders taking a In 2015, the ESRM team reviewed over 480 client relationships negative view of the Group or its actions.
Failures in behaviours and transactions across a range of Position Statement sectors.
or systems may affect stakeholders perceptions of the Groups For all risks identified, we seek to develop effective mitigating commitment to its Here for good brand promise.
Where this is not possible, transactions have been, risk could arise from the failure of the Group to effectively and will continue to be, turned down.
In 2015, we trained more mitigate the risks in its businesses, including one or more of than 1,700 staff on our requirements and processes.
country, credit, liquidity, market, regulatory, legal, strategic or other operational risk.
Damage to the Groups reputation could We believe in working collaboratively to achieve sustainability cause existing clients to reduce or cease to do business with goals.
This includes working with clients, other financial the Group and prospective clients to be reluctant to do institutions and industry bodies to promote, develop and business with the Group.
All employees are responsible for encourage leading E&S standards.
In 2015, we were pleased to day-to-day identification and management of reputational risk.
join the Banking Environment Initiative and continued our work These responsibilities form part of the Code and are further as a member of the Equator Principles Steering Committee.
embedded through values-based performance assessments.
The Group Risk Committee provides Group-wide oversight on Risk control owners must identify material reputational risks reputational risk, sets policy and monitors material risks.
The arising from any business activity or transaction that they Group Head of Corporate Affairs is the overall risk control owner control and ensure that these are escalated and controlled for reputational risk.
The Brand, Values and Conduct and Board inaccordance with the Groups Reputational Risk Policy and Risk Committees provide additional oversight of reputational applicable procedures.
risk on behalf of the Board.
At the business level, the Business Our reputational risk framework covers two areas.
Reputational Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee has risk management refers to proactively avoiding or mitigating the responsibility for managing reputational risk.
potential damage that might result from a future reputational At country level, the Country Head of Corporate Affairs is the risk risk event ex ante.
Reputational issues management and crisis control owner of reputational risk.
It is his or her responsibility communication refers to measures to limit damage from a toprotect our reputation in that market with the support of the reputational risk event that has already occurred ex post.
The Head of Corporate Affairs Reputational risk may also arise from a failure to comply with and Country Chief Executive Officer must actively: environmental and social standards in our relationship with Promote awareness and application of our policies and clients and in our financing decisions.
Environmental risk is procedures regarding reputational risk thepotential for material harm or degradation to the natural environment, while social risk is the potential to cause material Encourage business and functions to take account of our harm to individuals or communities.
Environmental and social reputation in all decision-making, including dealings with risks associated with clients are a key area of risk for the Group customers and suppliers and we have continued to develop and enhance our approach Implement effective in-country reporting systems to ensure to managing such risks since 1997. they are aware of all potential issues in tandem with respective business committees Promote effective, proactive stakeholder management through ongoing engagement 216 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Risk and capital review Pension risk unaudited Pension risk is the potential for loss due to having to meet an actuarially assessed shortfall in the Groups pension schemes.
Standard Chartered offers defined contribution pension plans for new hires in most locations, and only maintains defined benefit plans where required by law, contract or for closed groups of long-serving employees.
The Group monitors and manages both the pension financial risks stemming from its legacy defined benefit schemes and the operational and reputational risks of all its pension arrangements.
In doing thisthe Group has primary regard to its capital position, and therelative costs and benefits of reducing or removing its riskexposure.
The Groups primary pension risk measures are updates, atleast quarterly, of the accounting balance sheet position, the1-in-200 year stress test required annually by the PRA, and the funding position of the UK Fund over 60 per cent of the Groups pension liabilities.
The Group mitigates pension risk via a Group Pension Risk Policy which requires all new plans to be defined contribution where possible, and mandates standards around investments, benefit changes, funding, documentation, actuarial valuations, accounts and auditing.
Adherence to these standards is assured by an annual governance review.
The Group Pension Risk Committee is the body responsible forgovernance of pension risk and it receives its authority from the Group Risk Committee.
From 2016, the risk control owner of pension risk will assume these responsibilities directly.
Strategic risk unaudited Strategic risk is the potential for opportunity loss from failure tooptimise the earnings potential of the Groups franchise.
Opportunity losses could arise because a business decision does not deliver the expected profit and returns, or because adecision is not taken, which leads to lost opportunities.
Strategic risk can give rise to differences in the Groups earnings as compared with market expectations and competitor performance.
This can significantly impact the Groups share price.
If strategic risks materialise, we have the ability to take mitigating actions by adapting execution of the strategy and or managing the Groups capital position.
As the ultimate governance body for the Group, the Board challenges the Groups strategy and highlights potential underlying risks.
The Global Head of Strategy is the risk control owner for strategic risk.
Given that strategic risk primarily arises from the failure to make well made and timely decisions, strategic risk is managed where decisions are made.
The Regional, Country and Segment CEOs and the Heads of Functions are responsible for the identification of strategic risks.
Group level strategic risks are systematically reviewed during the Groups annual strategy review process and follow-up deepdives throughout the year on topics agreed with the Board.
A major Group level strategic review was undertaken in2015.
Execution of the strategic plan is managed through theGroups performance management process.
