SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 28 Diversity and Corporate Social Responsibility continued The Companies Act and FRC require companies Charitable giving todisclose the principal risks and uncertainties In 2014, the Company agreed to continue to the Company faces.
The Company believes this support the School for Social Entrepreneurs.
A total process is best done by considering the Companys of 86,313 was committed to our chosen charities most important value creation objectives in 2014. and objectives that have the potential, if not achieved, to significantly erode shareholder value.
School for Social Entrepreneurs Independent expert advice has been obtained to The School for Social Entrepreneurs SSE exists to ensure that theprocesses used to populate and provide training and opportunities to enable people maintain the Companys objectives register and the to use their creative and entrepreneurial abilities related residual risk status information arerobust, more fully for social benefit.
SSE also want to recruit effective, and fit for purpose.
more innovative and capable people into voluntary and other organisations.
The SSE runs practical Principal risks and uncertainties are defined by the learning programmes aimed at helping develop Board as risks with the highest overall potential to the individual entrepreneur and their organisation affect the achievement of the Companys business simultaneously.
SSEs approach, and belief, is that objectives.
These objectives include: ensuring social change is people-powered, and that the the ability to meet liabilities as they fall due and most valuable assets andresources we have are meet liabilities in full: and achieving target returns.
Principal risks relating to delivery ofthese objectives are described on page30, along with other principal For more information: www.
uk risks identified in relation to other key objectives.
In addition, smaller donations were made to Watts Further information on risk factors is set out in note Gallery, Christie Charity, Children in Need, See 29 to the Accounts.
Beyond Borders and Breathe Arts Health Research.
Internal control risk treatment Engagement with the sector Our objective is to engage in debates on the role The Code requires the Board to at least annually and impact of private equity.
We aim to do this by: conduct a review of the adequacy of the Companys systems of risk management and internal control k working with relevant sector associations.
processes and report to Shareholders that it has k participation in other relevant initiatives.
k engaging in discussions with stakeholders.
The principal risks to two of the Companys top objectives, including liquidity and solvency, are identified on pages 30 and 31, along with the other Risks risks noted at note 26 to the Accounts which provide details of the risks facing the Company.
Principal Risks, Risk Management and Risk Oversight A copy of the Companys risk management policy is available on the Companys website at The Board is responsible for managing and www.
The Board and management overseeing risk.
A Board-driven, objective centric believe that implementation of this approach to approach to risk management and internal audit has identifying, measuring, treating, and overseeing been adopted that focuses on identifying the most risks that create uncertainty that the Companys critical value creation objectives and potential value key strategic and core objectives will be achieved, erosion risks if an objective is not met: recording will significantly enhance the Companys risk these objectives in a corporate objectives register: management and oversight capabilities and better assigning specific management personnel in meet the emerging expectations from the FRC in ASVG toobjectives to regularly assess and report the UK and FSB globally, and provide additional to the Board on the state of retained residual risk, assurance to our Shareholders, clients, institutional including whether the current residual risk status is investors and regulators that risksare being consistent with the Companys risk appetite: and managed effectively.
direct, senior ASVG management and Board input and involvement in deciding which end-result objectives warrant formal risk assessments: and theappropriate level of risk assessment rigour and independent assurance to beapplied in light of cost benefit considerations.
TheBoard believes this approach better positions the Company to meet the emerging risk governance expectations proposed by the Financial Stability Board FSB globally, and the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 29 Risks During the year, the Board retained the services Board Independent risk of an independent risk adviser to assist the Board oversight provider and management with the implementation of this Determines risk appetite and risk framework newapproach to risk and control governance.
k Responsible for ensuring appropriate risk management framework is in place Following implementation of the European Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM k Overseas operation of risk management Directive, Aberdeen SVG Private Equity Managers framework Limited ASVGM, as the Companys AIFM, has k Considers principal risks and uncertainties put in place a risk framework for the Company in indetail accordance with regulatory requirements.
This risk k Detailed review of risk matters at annual framework is reviewed by the Board on a periodic strategyBoard meeting and periodic reviews basis.
This framework includes limits to mitigate atother meetings various risks including, for example, financing risk which is assessed through cash flow modelling and stress testing.
ASVGMs Risk Management Committee reviews reports prepared to ensure compliance with the risk limits set out in the framework.
ASVGMs Chief Risk Officer has oversight Chief Executive of Companys AIFM responsibility for this process.
The Board believes that the combination of the Companys risk management and governance framework described in the Companys risk management policy, risk assessment training Investment Committee Risk Management Committee provided to key ASVG management personnel, k Considers risk in relation to k Delegated responsibility for reviews and feedback provided by our adviser individual investments riskmanagement combined with the work done by Ernst & Young, divestments the Companys external auditors, are appropriate to k Ensures appropriate risk k Meets on ad-hoc basis management arrangements, the Companys business as an investment trust.
processes and techniques The Board considers that adequate risk mitigation inplace risk treatments controls exist over the financial k Monitors adherence to risk reporting process.
An experienced team is appetite and risk framework responsible for preparing the financial reporting k Liaises with independent risk for the Company and ensuring that financial oversight provider information is accurate, complete, reconciled and reviewed by senior members of staff, and that k Meets at least quarterly transactions and balances are recognised and measured on a consistent basis and in accordance with accounting policies and financial reporting standards.
Management personnel responsible for the integrity and reliability of the Companys financial statements have completed formal risk assessments on the objective of publishing financial disclosures that are fair, balanced and understandable.
These risk assessments have been reviewed by the Board.
Although the Board believes that it has a robust framework of risk management and internal control over financial reporting in place, this can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial mis-statement or loss and is designed to manage, not eliminate, risk.
k SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 30 Risks continued Principal risks and uncertainties Change from 2013 Key risk treatments Following the sale of 50.1% of ASVG to AAM, k the Company has a number of rights and protections vk the Company now outsources all investment under the terms of a shareholders agreement management and associated services to a nonin respect of its holding in ASVG and hastwo This risk was assessed as stable.
As such, the Company does not appointees to the board of ASVG.
The Company has Therelationship with ASVG has have the same level of control over its investment a number of rights and protections in the investment notchanged during the period.
managers as it had prior to such sale management agreement.
The Company is a key client of ASVG.
If the Company isdissatisfied with the performance of ASVG it can terminate the investment management agreement.
Concentration risk may result in the performance k the Board considers the performance of its largest of the Company being unduly affected by portfolio companies in detail periodically and, the performance of one or a small group of inextremis, can dispose of interests in funds or This risk was assessed as decreasing underlying investee companies.
in the period due to the increasing 2015, theCompanys largest individual k the Company has changed its Investment Objective diversification of the portfolio.
underlying company holding represents 25% to evolve from a concentrated, single manager of the gross investment portfolio and the Top investor to one that is more diversified.
10 largest underlying holdings represents 76% k the Companys investment manager has a of the gross investment portfolio.
In addition, sophisticated due diligence process that includes the portfolio is concentrated by sector with steps to ensure inadvertent concentration does industrials accounting for 30% by value and TMT notmaterialise.
23% by value Currency risk may  by k the Company continually monitors foreign exchange h the Company as the majority of itsassets are risk.
Many investee k the Company has the ability to hedge against foreign This risk was assessed as increasing in the companies are international andtherefore currencymovements, but has decided notto hedge period.
The majority of assets are in exposed to multiplecurrencies the currency risk on its investment portfolio.
while the Company reports in.
There k the Company may hold cash in currencies to match were significant currency fluctuations fund commitments or can draw its loan facility in during the period.
The Companys excess liquidity isinvested in k the Company has a rigorous process to select vk bank accounts and money market funds until andoversee where itinvests surplus funds.
This the capital isrequired to fund new investments, includes detailed analysis of thecredit worthiness This risk was assessed as stable.
Cashand fund share buybacks or other returns of capital, and historical track record of the financial institutions cash-equivalents remain material.
deleverage or for general corporate costs.
The being considered, or in use, and ongoing monitoring safety and soundness of the investments made of diversification and of national and international with these funds represents a risk developments that have potential to undermine the safetyand soundness ofthose institutions.
The private equity sector globally falls out of k private equity has outperformed public markets over vk favour with investors leading to a reduction in the long-term and it has proved to be an attractive demand for the Companys shares asset class through various cycles.
This risk was assessed as stable.
There k raising awareness of private equity and attracting has been some criticism, particularly new investors mitigates this risk.
in the US, of private equity managers charging inappropriate fees to investee companies though this has had little impact on the asset class as a whole.
The Company invests in funds managed by k the Companys investment committee comprises a vk private equity managers, who in turn select balance of skills and perspectives.
The k AAM has a robust HR and professional development This risk was assessed as stable.
expertise, due diligence, risk management skills programme in place to ensure high quality personnel Investment recommendations continue and integrity of the staff that select private equity are attracted, retained and developed.
ASVG is no managers and the private equity managers k ASVG performs extensive due-diligence on the longer controlled bythe Company, but selected by the Company is key to the success of private equity managers that it invests with, the same team performs this function at the Company whichincludes assessing theadequacy of the ASVG as did prior to the sale of 50.1% of riskmanagement frameworks they use, and ASVG to AAM.
k the Companys investment objective is more diversified than in the past reducing the likelihood of a single investment decision impacting portfolio performance.
