NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Companys investing activities undertaken in pursuit of its investment objective, as set out on page 11, involve certain inherent risks.
The main financial risks arising from the Companys financial instruments are market price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and currency risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks as summarised below.
These policies have remained substantially unchanged during the current and preceding periods.
Market price risk Market price risk arises mainly from uncertainty about future prices of financial instruments used in the Companys business.
It represents the potential loss the Company might suffer through holding market positions in the face of price movements.
The Board meets on seven scheduled occasions in each year and at each meeting it receives sufficient financial and statistical information to enable it to monitor adequately the investment performance and status of the business.
In addition, financial information is circulated to the directors on a monthly basis.
The Board has also established a series of investment parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to limit the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of investments.
The Companys borrowings have the effect of increasing the market risk faced by shareholders.
This gearing effect is such that, for example, for a 10% movement in the valuation of the Companys investments, the net assets attributable to shareholders would move by approximately 11.3%.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk of movements in the value of financial instruments or interest income cash flows that arise as a result of fluctuations in interest rates.
The Company finances its operations through retained profits including capital profits, and additional financing is obtained through the two debenture stocks in issue and the Private Placement Loan, on all of which interest is paid at a fixed rate.
Liquidity risk The Companys assets comprise mainly readily realisable securities, which can be sold to meet funding commitments if necessary.
Short term flexibility is achieved through the use of cash balances and short term bank deposits.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will fail to discharge an obligation and cause the other party to incur a financial loss.
This is mitigated by the Manager reviewing the credit ratings of broker counterparties.
The risk attached to dividend flows is mitigated by the Managers research of potential investee companies.
The Companys custodian is responsible for the collection of income on behalf of the Company.
Cash is held either with reputable banks with high quality external credit ratings or in liquidity cash funds providing a spread of exposures to various underlying banks in order to diversify risk.
The full portfolio can be found on pages 16 to 17.
Currency risk The income and capital value of the Companys investments and liabilities can be affected by exchange rate movements as some of the Companys assets and income are denominated in currencies other than Pounds Sterling which is the Companys reporting currency.
The key areas where foreign currency risk could have an impact on the Company are: movements in rates that would affect the value of investments and liabilities: and movements in rates that would affect the income received.
The Company had the following currency exposures, all of which are included in the Statement of Financial Position at fair value based on the exchange rates ruling at the respective year-ends.
They are not representative of the currency exposures during the year as a whole.
