Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The assets and liabilities of the scheme are included in the Risk Management Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with IAS 19.
The fair value of the schemes assets at the end of the year was 289.8m This section sets out a summary of how risk is managed by 2014: 255.7m.
The increase reflects the investment return on theGroup, covering the Groups Enterprise Risk Management the assets of 15% less amounts paid as benefits.
The value of the Framework and its Principal Risks.
schemes liabilities at the end of 2015 calculated in accordance with IAS 19 was 201.6m 2014: 193.6m.
The valuation of the schemes The systems of internal control operated by the Group are designed liabilities at the end of 2015 reflects the demographic assumptions to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve adopted for the most recent triennial actuarial valuation and a business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not discount rate of 3.7% 2014: 3.7%.
Under IAS 19 the scheme shows absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
a surplus, before the related deferred tax liability, of 88.2m at 31December 2015 2014: 62.1m.
Enterprise Risk Management As the scheme is in a strong financial position, the Trustees areactively considering making arrangements for an insurance Framework company to take over their responsibility as Trustees for providing the benefits, and the Companys responsibility for supporting the The Board has adopted an Enterprise Risk Management Scheme financially.
Framework ERMF, the purpose of which is to enable the Group tounderstand the risks to which it is exposed, and to manage them Return on capital employed in line with the Groups overall business objectives and within its The return on capital employed ROCE in 2015 was 20% 2014: stated risk appetite.
The ERMF defines the processes, ownership, 20%.
ROCE is calculated as underlying operating profit divided by responsibilities and the risk governance required to support the average capital employed in the business.
Capital employed is effective implementation of the framework, and comprises defined as shareholders funds less net funds and the accounting fourmutually reinforcing components: pension surplus net of deferred tax, adding back cumulative a risk management philosophy which sets out the Groups amortised and impaired goodwill and the post-tax reorganisation underlying attitude to the management of risk and addresses costs related to the integration of the Tullett and Prebon businesses.
theGroups risk appetite: Regulatory capital a risk management culture which seeks to foster adoption The Groups lead regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority.
ofappropriate risk management principles and behaviours throughout the Group: The Group has a waiver from the consolidated capital adequacy a risk management governance structure based on three lines requirements under CRD IV.
The Groups current waiver took ofdefence that segregate risk management first line of defence effecton 25 September 2014 and will expire on 24 September from risk oversight second line of defence and risk assurance 2024.
Under the terms of the waiver each investment firm within third line of defence : and the Group must be either a limited activity or a limited licence firm and must comply with its individual regulatory capital resources risk management processes that enable effective identification, requirements.
Tullett Prebon plc, as the parent company, must assessment, management and reporting of risk exposures.
continue to maintain capital resources in excess of the sum of the Risk management philosophy solo notional capital resources requirements for each relevant firm Effective risk management is essential for the financial strength within the Group, the Financial Holding Company test.
andresilience of the Group, and for the achievement of its business The terms of the waiver require the Group to eliminate the objectives.
The Board has the responsibility to ensure that the Group excessof its consolidated own funds requirements compared implements an appropriate risk management culture throughout the withits consolidated own funds excess goodwill over the ten Group, underpinned by a robust framework of riskgovernance and year period to 24 September 2024.
The amount of the excess controls, complying with all relevant laws andregulations.
goodwill must not exceed the amount determined as at the date the waiver took effect and must be reduced in line with a schedule The Group has adopted core principles that set the context for theGroups risk management activities: over the ten years, with the first reduction of 25% required to be achieved by March 2017.
The Company expects to achieve this risk management should be value enhancing so that current reduction within its current business plan.
The waiver also sets andpotential risks are managed to support achievement of outconditions with respect to the maintenance of financial ratios theGroups business objectives and strategy: relating to leverage, debt service and debt maturity profile.
risk management should address the expectations and The Groups regulatory capital headroom under the Financial requirements of the key stakeholders shareholders and Holding Company test calculated in accordance with Pillar 1 was regulatory authorities : 761m 2014: 715m.
risk oversight and assurance functions should be sufficiently Many of the Groups broking entities are regulated on a solo independent of business decision taking and supported by adequate resources: basis, and are obliged to meet the regulatory capital requirements imposed by the local regulator of the jurisdiction in which they the Board must clearly define its risk appetite, setting out the operate.
The Group maintains an appropriate excess of financial type and level of risk the Group is willing to accept in pursuit resources in such entities.
ofits objectives: risk management should be integrated into the business Information disclosure under Pillar 3 is available on the Groups processes of the Group, and both current and emerging risks website: www.
com should be managed as an integral aspect of the business management processes.
Risk management should be proportionate and commensurate with the level and complexity of both the business model and the nature of associated risks: Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 19 Strategic Report continued the cost of risk management should be proportionate to the Groups designated Risk Non-executive Director.
Both of these value it creates for the Group, while ensuring that regulatory committees are attended by the Group CRO.
objectives are met: and First line of defence risk management within the business risk management should be subject to continual review and The first line of defence comprises the management of the business enhancement to ensure that associated structures, systems and units and support functions.
The first line of defence has primary processes remain effective and reflect stakeholder expectations.
responsibility for ensuring that the business operates within risk appetite on a day-to-day basis.
Risk management culture The Board recognises that embedding a sound risk management In discharging this responsibility, business management are culture is fundamental to the effective operation of the Groups risk responsible for identifying, assessing and managing any risks management framework, and sets the tone and manner in which arising from their activities, and for adhering to all relevant risk the Group conducts its business activities through defined values management policies adopted by the Group.
This includes ensuring and expected behaviours.
The Board notes that the Group must the effective operation of any controls required to manage risk ensure that the risk management culture is implemented across all within appetite, and for ensuring that the employees for whom businesses and functions, such that all employees are aware of, and they are responsible are aware of, and competent to undertake, act in conformity with, the desired values and behaviours adopted their role in the risk management process.
by the Group in their day-to-day activities.
Second line of defence risk oversight The Group seeks to achieve the implementation of its desired risk The second line of defence comprises the risk and compliance management culture through a combination of frameworks, functions, which are separate from operational management, policies and practices, including: andare responsible for overseeing and challenging the first line ofdefence as it undertakes the identification, assessment and the Group cultural framework which puts market integrity at the management of risks, and for assisting the Board and its various heart of the business: committees in discharging its overall risk oversight responsibilities.
risk appetite statements that clearly define the type and level of risk the Group is willing to accept in pursuit of its objectives: The Groups risk function is responsible for assisting the Board inthe development of the Groups risk appetite and framework, the adoption of a comprehensive policy framework to ensure monitoring the implementation of the ERMF and providing that all employees are aware of their risk management robustchallenge to the first line in its risk management activities.
responsibilities as they relate to specific risks: the allocation of responsibility for identification, assessment, The compliance function is responsible for monitoring compliance mitigation and reporting of risks to management across the with all applicable regulatory requirements, including those business including front office, control function and executive relating to conduct of business requirements, market abuse management : provisions and the prevention of financial crime.
The Compliance function is also responsible for monitoring potential changes to a performance management process that links staff appraisals theregulatory framework in which the Group operates, to assess and remuneration to risk management and conduct criteria: and their impact on the Group and identify the actions required to corporate communications that reinforce awareness and meet these new requirements.
understanding of the Groups desired risk management culture and associated policies.
Third line of defence independent assurance Internal Audit provides independent assurance on the design Risk management governance structure andoperational effectiveness of the Tullett Prebon Groups risk The Board management framework and activity, including the performance The Board has overall responsibility for the management of risk ofthe business units and support and oversight functions which within the Group.
This includes determining its risk appetite which constitute the first and second lines of defence.
Internal Audit sets out the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to considers all relevant risk related information in constructing its take in achieving its objectives, defining expectations for the Groups audit plan, including risk exposure reports, the results of risk and risk culture, ensuring that it has an appropriate and effective risk control self-assessments, and specific risk events which have management framework and monitoring performance so that the occurred such as loss events or near-misses.
Internal Audit Group remains within its risk appetite.
The Board has delegated hasadirect reporting line to the Audit Committee.
certain risk governance responsibilities to the Risk Committee of The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the Board, which theBoard BRC.
discharges a number of risk management responsibilities, Risk Committees including: In 2015, the Group implemented a Risk Committee governance the review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control structure to oversee the implementation and operation of the and risk management procedures: ERMF.
This structure comprises the BRC, Group Executive Risk the approval of the Tullett Prebon Groups annual internal Committee GERC and three Regional Risk Committees in EMEA, auditplan: Americas and APAC.
the review of the internal audit function: and The Regional Risk Committees are responsible for exercising risk the review of all internal audit reports and related management oversight in their respective regions.
Risk Committee of each region is chaired by the relevant Regional CEO and attended by the Regional CRO.
The Audit Committee is comprised of at least three members, allofwhom are Non-executive Directors.
The Regional Risk Committees all report to the GERC, chaired by theGroup CEO, which in turn reports to the Board Risk Committee which is a formal committee of the Board, and is chaired by the 20 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Group undertakes stress testing and scenario analysis to Risk management processes complement the RCSA process and enhance its understanding of its The ERMF sets out the core risk management activities undertaken risk profile and control framework.
These include macro-economic by the Group to ensure that the Board understands the Groups risk scenarios to investigate the impact on the Group of severe but profile and adopts a clearly defined risk appetite, that it manages plausible external events which are beyond the control of the risk exposures within risk appetite and that the Groups desired Group and reverse stress tests to identify those risks which could riskculture is embedded throughout the Group.
render the Groups business model unviable in an extreme scenario, The business objectives and strategy adopted by the Board thereby identifying those areas of the Groups control framework determine the nature and scale of the commercial activities which require particular scrutiny.
undertaken by the Group, and the overall risk appetite of the The ability of the Group to withstand severe risk events is, to Group.
As such, the business objectives are the key determinant alargeextent, determined by the level of capital and liquidity ofthe Groups risk profile.
resources held by the Group.
The Group therefore regularly assesses The Group periodically identifies the risks to which it is exposed the adequacy of its capital and liquidity resources to cover the asa result of its business objectives, strategy and operating model, Groups risk profile as established through the RCSA, top-down risk collectively referred to as the risk universe.
This exercise also assessment and stress testing and scenario analysis.
The assessment covers any emerging risks, defined as newly developing and of financial resources is undertaken at a subsidiary level, to ensure changing risks which could have a significant impact on the that each subsidiary has access to adequate financial resources on Group.
The risk universe is approved by the Board at least once astandalone basis.
ayear, or more frequently in the event of a significant change to the Groups business activities or external business environment.
Principal Risks Risk appetite represents the type and level of risk which the Group is willing to accept in pursuit of its objectives and is articulated by The Group identifies the risks to which it is exposed as a result the Board through the Groups risk appetite statements, at least ofits business objectives, strategy and operating model, and annually or more often if required.
These can be expressed in either categorises those risks into three overarching risk categories: quantitative or qualitative terms.
The Group implements these risk Operational Risk, Financial Risk, and Strategic and Business Risk.
appetite statements through the adoption of risk thresholds The risks identified within each of these categories are described which provide exposure thresholds at individual risk level which the below, along with an explanation of how the Group seeks to first line of defence must use to manage the risk exposure within manage or mitigate these risk exposures.
risk appetite on a day-to-day basis.
The Board approves the risk Operational Risk appetite statements at least annually.
Risk thresholds are approved by the BRC on an annual basis.
In setting its risk appetite, the Group Operational Risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from adheres to the overriding principle that the risk profile of the Group inadequate or failed internal processes, people activities, should be managed to be as low as reasonably practicable.
Operational risk is a significant component of the Groups overall risk profile and arises in a The Group publishes risk management policies which describe the widerange of activities and scenarios.
principal risk management and control requirements that must be implemented to manage the Groups risk exposure within appetite.
Whilst operational risk is often seen as a distinct risk category in itsown right, in reality it arises in the execution of all activities The Group conducts a formal assessment of its risk exposure at undertaken by the Group.
Therefore, the Group seeks to ensure least once a year to ensure that it is operating within risk appetite.
that it identifies any exposure to loss arising from processes, The assessment of risk exposure consists of the risk and controls people activities, systems or external events, in whatever self-assessment process RCSA : a top-down risk assessment contextitmay arise.
process: and stress testing and scenario analysis.
The findings of the RCSA process, the top-down risk assessment process and the The Group is exposed to operational risk in nearly every facet of its stress testing and scenario analysis are taken together to determine role as an intermediary in the wholesale financial markets, arising the Groups overall risk exposure, and then compared with the from its dependence on: applicable risk appetite statement to assess whether the Group Large numbers of employees both broking and support staff isoperating within risk appetite.
undertaking their roles correctly and behaving appropriately: The RCSA is the process by which the Group assesses its exposure Multiple IT platforms including broking, middle office and to specific risks, including an assessment of the effectiveness of support platforms : thecontrol framework it has in place.
RCSAs are undertaken by the The accurate execution of a large number of processes including Groups front office, support and control functions with support those required to execute, clear and settle trades: and from the Risk function.
Any impact on the Groups capital, liquidity, reputation, regulatory standing or access to capital markets The continued availability of various third party market isconsidered.
infrastructure providers such as clearing and settlement institutions.
The top-down risk assessment process is completed by the Board and Executive Committee to ensure that the overall Group risk The overall objective of the Groups approach to operational risk assessment process incorporates the input of those members of management is not to attempt to avoid all potential risks, but to senior management who have not been involved in the bottomproactively identify and assess risks and risk situations in order to up RCSA process, and to ensure that the process incorporates the manage them in an efficient and informed manner.
Board and Executives view of the major and strategic risks to which The Group manages its operational risk exposure through its policy the Group is exposed.
framework which prescribes the policies and procedures to be followed to ensure the Groups operational risk exposure remains within risk appetite.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 21 Strategic Report continued Business Process Human capital The risk that the Group suffers a loss as a result of a failure in the The risk that the Group is unable to attract or retain the staff broking business process, whether arising from trade execution itrequires to operate its business, or is subject to employee orfrom post-trade activities, such as clearing, settlement or trade litigation.
The Group seeks to ensure the retention of staff through reporting.
Failures in the broking process could include a broker an effective recruitment and performance management process, error or failure to match clients orders precisely, resulting in an and to foster appropriate employee behaviour through clearly incidental position and consequential market risk for the Group articulated values and expectations.
this is discussed under Market Risk below.
The Group could also Financial management experience a failure in the non-broking business process, such as This is the risk of loss arising from a failure to manage or safeguard inthe Information Sales and Risk Management businesses.
the Groups financial assets or a failure in a financial management Front office and functional heads are responsible for implementing process.
It includes the risk of loss arising from internal or external an appropriate control framework and ensuring that all staff fraud or employee error inaccurate payment or cash transfer.
It areaware of their risk management responsibilities.
Senior also includes a failure to ensure the Group holds adequate working management are also responsible for monitoring operational capital resulting in an ability to meet obligations as they fall due.
riskexposure through the adoption and review of appropriate The Group is also exposed to the risk of financial loss or management information.
misstatement as a result of non-compliance with regulations Senior management seek to foster a culture of openness and relating to direct, indirect or employee taxation.
transparency and ensure that brokers and other members of The Group employs experienced professionals in key jurisdictions staffare aware of their responsibility to disclose any errors or tomanage the Groups financial position, engaging professional issuesthat arise at the earliest opportunity.
Legal and Compliance Governance The risk that the Group incurs loss as a result of litigation brought The risk of loss or damage to the Group arising as a result of a failure against the Group or incurs significant legal costs in conducting of management structures or processes.
This includes failure to litigation to protect the Groups commercial interests.
The Groups adhere to applicable corporate governance requirements such as Legal department manages the Groups legal risk and is responsible those recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, a for conducting any litigation which may arise.
failure to ensure adequate succession for key management positions, The Group is also exposed to the risk of loss due to regulatory or a failure to exercise effective risk management oversight.
enforcement action such as for breaches of conduct of business The Group manages this risk through the adoption of appropriate requirements, failures or inadequacy of systems and controls governance arrangements and by maintaining up-to-date including those related to know your customer and anti-money succession plans.
laundering, or market abuse provisions and the possible costs and penalties associated with such action.
Financial Risk The Groups lead regulator is the FCA, but the Group is also subject Market Risk to the requirements imposed by the regulatory frameworks of the Market Risk is the vulnerability of the Group to movements in the other jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Groups value of financial instruments.
The Group does not take trading risk Compliance function is responsible for ensuring that staff are made and does not hold proprietary trading positions.
Consequently, the aware of all applicable regulatory requirements and for monitoring Group is exposed to trading-book market risk only in relation to the Groups compliance with the various regulatory regimes to incidental positions in financial instruments arising as a result of which the Group is subject.
the Groups failure to match clients orders precisely.
The Group has limited exposure to non-trading book market risk, specifically to Technology and Infrastructure interest rate risk and currency risk.
The risk that the Group experiences the unavailability or failure ofbusiness critical systems or infrastructure undermining the Residual balances Groups ability to conduct its business.
This includes the failure of The Group incurs occasional residual balances in instruments critical applications, hardware or network components operated traded on a Matched Principal or Executing Broker basis.
The bythe Group, as well as loss or unavailability of any infrastructure Groups operational procedures and risk management policies provided by a third party, such as clearing and settlement facilities.
reduce the likelihood of such trade mismatches and, in the event It also includes the occurrence of an event which prevents access that they arise, the Groups policies require such balances to be topremises, telecommunications failure or loss of power supply.
closed-out as soon as practicable.
The Group seeks to mitigate this risk by maintaining detailed and Interest rate risk comprehensive business continuity plans which can be activated The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its cash deposits and atshort notice to minimise business disruption.
on any borrowings under bank facilities.
The Groups Sterling Notes Recent events in the financial services sector illustrate the carry interest at fixed rates.
Cash deposits are typically held at seriousthreat posed by cyber-criminals whose activity can result maturities of less than three months.
inthe prolonged disruption of technology infrastructure as well The Group periodically considers its exposure to interest rate volatility.
aspotential loss of critical business or client data.
The Group continues to monitor and assess the evolving and increasingly Analysis of the Groups sensitivity to movements in interest rates sophisticated cyber-threat landscape to ensure that its control isset out in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
framework is appropriate to address the potential cyber-threats towhich it is exposed.
22 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Currency risk Cash deposits The Group trades in a number of currencies around the world, but The Group is exposed to counterparty Credit Risk in respect of cash reports its results in Sterling.
The Group therefore has translation deposits held with financial institutions.
The vast majority of the exposure to foreign currency exchange rate movements in these Groups cash deposits are held with highly rated clearing banks and currencies, principally the US dollar and the Euro, and transaction settlement organisations as set out in the Credit Risk analysis in exposure within individual operations which undertake Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
transactions in one currency and report in another.
Cash deposit counterparty exposures and limits are kept under Analysis of the Groups sensitivity to movements in foreign review and steps are taken to reduce counterparty risk where currency exchange rates is set out in Note 25 to the Consolidated market conditions require.
Name Passing brokerage receivables Credit Risk The majority of revenue generated by the Group is on a Name Passing basis, where the Group acts as agent in arranging the trade and is not The Credit Risk faced by the Group consists of counterparty a counterparty to the transaction.
Whilst the Group does not suffer creditrisk as opposed to issuer risk, and principally arises from any exposure in relation to the underlying instrument brokered given thefollowing: that the Group is not a principal to the trade, it is exposed to the risk pre-settlement risk arising from Matched Principal broking: that the client fails to pay the brokerage it ischarged.
settlement risk arising from Matched Principal broking: Receivables arising from Name Passing brokerage are closely cash deposits held at banks and money market instruments: and monitored by senior management.
Concentration risk In addition to the individual elements of counterparty risk The Group manages its Concentration Risk exposure by identified above, the Group is also exposed to concentration risk,  its exposures to single counterparties whereby the Group incurs an excessive exposure to an individual andto concentrations of counterparty exposure, assessed by counterparty or to a group of linked counterparties.
reference to country groups, credit rating, and counterparty type.
Pre-settlement risk Liquidity Risk Pre-settlement Risk arises in the Matched Principal broking The Group seeks to ensure that it has access to an appropriate business in which Group subsidiaries interpose themselves as levelof cash, other forms of marketable securities and liquidity principal between two or more contracting parties to a Matched facilities to enable it to finance its ongoing operations on cost Principal transaction and as a result the Group is at risk of loss effective terms.
Cash and cash equivalent balances are held with should one of the parties to a transaction default on its obligations the primary objective of capital security and availability, with a prior to settlement date.
In the event of default, the Group would secondary objective of generating returns.
Funding requirements have to replace the defaulted contract in the market.
This is a are monitored by the Groups Finance and Treasury functions.
contingent risk in that the Group will only suffer loss if the As a normal part of its operations, the Group faces liquidity marketprice of the securities has moved adversely to the riskthrough the risk of being required to fund transactions that originaltrade price.
failto settle on the due date.
From a risk perspective, the most Counterparty exposures are kept under constant review and are problematic scenario concerns fail to deliver transactions, where managed against exposure reporting thresholds, and the Group the business has received a security from the selling counterparty takes steps to reduce counterparty risk where market conditions and has paid cash in settlement of the same but is unable to require.
Particular attention is paid to more illiquid markets where effect onward delivery of the security to the buying counterparty.
the price movement is more volatile, such as broking in GDR, ADR Such settlement fails give rise to a funding requirement, reflecting and emerging markets instruments.
the value of the security which the Group has failed to deliver until such time as the delivery leg is finally settled and the The Group is also exposed to short term pre-settlement risk where businesshas received the associated cash.
it acts as an executing broker on an exchange, during the period between the execution of the trade and the client claiming the The Group has addressed this funding risk by arranging overdraft trade.
This exposure is minimal as under the terms of the give-up facilities to cover failed to deliver trades, either with the relevant agreements the Group has in place with its clients, trades must be settlement agent depository or with a clearing bank.
Under such claimed by the end of trade day.
Once the trade has been claimed, arrangements, the facility provider will fund the value of any the Groups only exposure to the client is for the invoiced failedto deliver trades until delivery of the security is effected.
Certain facility providers require collateral such as a cash deposit or parent company guarantee to protect them from any adverse Settlement risk mark-to-market movement and some also charge a funding fee Settlement Risk is the risk that on settlement date a counterparty forproviding the facility.
defaults on its contractual obligation to make payment for a securities transaction after the corresponding value has been The Group is also exposed to potential margin calls from clearing paidaway by the Group.
Unlike pre-settlement risk, the exposure houses and correspondent clearers, both in the UK and the isto the full principal value of the transaction.
In practice the Group is not exposed to this risk as settlement is In the event of a liquidity issue arising, the firm has recourse almost invariably effected on a  basis.
toexisting global cash resources, after which it could draw Free-of-payment deliveries where an immediate exposure arises downon its 250m committed revolving credit facility as due to the Group settling its side of the transaction without additional contingency funding.
This facility remained undrawn simultaneous receipt of the counter-value occur very infrequently throughout2015.
and only under the application of stringent controls.
Further details of the Groups borrowings and cash are provided inNotes 22, 25 and 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 23 Strategic Report continued Specific liquidity risk exposures The Group also competes with other interdealer brokers for staff.
The costs of employing front office broking staff is currently the In addition to its general Liquidity Risk exposure, the Group largest cost faced by the Group.
The effect of the competition for isexposed to two additional types of funding risk.
broking staff can result in an increase in staff costs, or if staff leave The Group is exposed to the risk that it is required, in the short the Group, can result in the loss of capability, customer andmedium term, to fund a deficit in the Groups defined relationships and expertise.
The scheme currently has a substantial The Group seeks to manage and mitigate its commercial risk funding surplus, and the Group closely monitors developments in through geographic and product diversification and strong client its funding position.
The Group also continues to develop The Group is also exposed to the risk that is unable to refinance and enhance its electronic broking capability, to ensure that it can itsoutstanding debt.
The Group seeks to mitigate this risk by offer a competitive solution for all major asset classes.
maintaining a strong credit rating and an ongoing dialogue withitslenders and investors, and by ensuring that it complies Strategy Management with all of its current debt covenants.
This is the risk that the Group suffers a reduction in its profitabilityor its competitive position due to a failure to adopt Strategic and Business Risk orimplement an effective business strategy, or as a result of The Group operates in an environment characterised by intense inadequate management of the business, potentially undermining competition, rapid technological change and a continually evolving the viability of the business.
It also includes the risk that the Group regulatory framework.
Failure to adapt to changing market fails to integrate a business acquisition, resulting in a material loss dynamics, customer requirements or the way OTC markets and of value.
their participants are regulated constitutes a significant risk.
The The Group manages this risk by adopting a strategy defined Group has identified three principal categories of Strategic and bytheBoard, which clearly articulates the Groups business Business Risk: objectives.
This is subject to ongoing review by the Board to regulatory environment: ensureit remains effective and appropriate in the context of anychanges to the commercial and regulatory environment in commercial environment: and which the Group operates.
The Boards assessment of the Principal Risks Regulatory Environment The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks The Group is exposed to the risk of new regulations imposing facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business afundamental change to the structure or activity of financial model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
markets, resulting in a reduced role for IDBs.
Specific issues could include an inability of the business to provide electronic platforms The Board Risk Committee has reviewed reports from the or market facilities which are compliant with new regulations, or Riskfunction on the risks faced by the Group and the processes the obligation to hold punitive levels of regulatory capital.
forthe management and mitigation of those risks, and senior management have presented to the Committee on the risk The Group is also exposed to the risk of a fundamental change management actions being taken.
The risk reports highlight tothe commercial environment due to the impact on clients of thoserisks which senior management and the Board have changes to their regulatory environment causing significantly identified as being the highest risks, and the Chief Risk Officer reduced trade volumes.
This could include increased execution reports on his assessment of which residual risks are potentially andclearing costs, onerous collateral requirements or increases outside of the Boards risk appetite.
inregulatory capital requirements, or a prohibition on certain typesof trading activity.
During 2015 the risks identified as being the highest risks includedchanges in the regulatory and commercial environments The Group monitors closely regulatory developments in its that could materially reduce the Groups revenue or profitability, marketsand is actively involved in consultation and rule setting risks related to the availability of technology systems and processes so as to ensure an informed debate of all regulatory infrastructure, including cyber-risk, that could prevent the Group issues potentially affecting the IDB markets, both on an from operating as normal or result in reputational damage, and individualfirm basis and through trade associations.
strategic risks particularly related to the proposed acquisition of Commercial Environment IGBB, the integration of the two businesses and the delivery of theexpected synergies.
The Board has also focused on the Groups The Groups performance would be adversely affected by a ability to refinance the banking facilities that have been put in sustained and prolonged period of suppressed market activity place to finance the acquisition.
The Board has paid particular leading to reduced revenues.
This could arise as a result of attention to risk management governance, measurement  conditions, reduced levels of general frameworks, and to the initiatives underway to improve conduct banking activity, market uncertainty or lack of volatility.
and culture in the business designed to ensure that all business The Group is also exposed to the risk of significant or fundamental done is executed to the highest standards.
changes to the commercial or competitive environment.
The The risks facing the Group have been considered as part of the markets in which the Group competes are characterised by rapidly Boards review of the Companys longer term viability.
changing technology and evolving customer requirements, including the demand for electronic broking solutions.
Competitors offering new or enhanced services may gain first-mover advantage to which the Group may not be able to respond in a timely manner.
Consolidation within the industry or integration with adjacent sectors may provide competing firms or platforms with advantages of scale, access to wider pools of liquidity, or service capability that may put the Group at a competitive disadvantage.
24 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015
