146 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Risk Management Report Risk Management Three Lines of Defence model Role of the Board and senior management The key responsibilities of the Board and senior The Group uses aThree Lines of Defence model which management include: defines clear responsibilities and accountabilities and ensures effective independent assurance activities take place covering setting risk appetite and agreeing the risk key decisions.
management framework: line management first line have primary responsibility for approving risk policies, supporting development of risk decisions, measuring, monitoring and controlling risks appropriate risk management practices: within their areas of accountability.
They are required to cascading delegated authority e. g. to Board committees establish effective controls in line with policy, to maintain and the Chief Executive : and appropriate risk management skills, practices and tools, and to act within risk appetite parameters set and effectively overseeing risk management, consistent with approved by the Board.
Risk second line is acentralised function providing proactive advice and constructive challenge to the Committees effectiveness of risk decisions taken by management.
The Board and Executive Committee structure is designed It has akey role in promoting the implementation of to oversee the overall management of risk, aligned with astrategic approach to risk management reflecting the strategy and risk appetite.
The structure is based on acurrent risk appetite and risk management framework agreed by and comprehensive risk profile that identifies all material the Board.
This encompasses: risks to the Group.
The governance structure is underpinned embedded and effective risk management processes: by well understood policies that are accessible and comply with regulations.
transparent and focused risk monitoring and reporting: expert high-quality advice and guidance to the Board, executives and management on strategic issues and horizon scanning for upcoming regulatory changes: reviewing, challenging and reporting on the risk profile of the Group, ensuring mitigating actions are appropriate: providing assurance to meet internal and external obligations: promoting aconstructive working environment in which the Risk Function is trusted and respected: and effective dialogue with the first line through advice, development of common methodologies, education, training and development of new tools.
indd 146 01 03 2016 11:35 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 147 I The Groups Approach to Risk 140 Emerging Risks 143 Risk Governance 145 Risk Management 146 Risk Management framework 148 Risk Classes 149 Stress Testing 150 Full Analysis of Risk Classes 152 2 54 73 209 Risk Management Internal Audit third line provides independent, objective The Chief Risk Officer is accountable for developing and assurance to add value and improve operations.
It helps leading aRisk Function that adds value to the Group by: the Group achieve its objectives by bringing asystematic, proposing risk appetite to the Board for approval, and disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the reporting the performance of the Group against approved effectiveness of risk management, control and risk appetite: governance processes.
developing an effective and compliant risk management framework for approval by the Board, and overseeing its Risk management in the business execution and compliance: The Group identifies and manages risks inherent in the providing aregular comprehensive view of the Groups business through the activities of management.
This ensures risk profile, key risks both current and emerging, and that business decisions strike an appropriate balance between management actions: risk and reward, consistent with the Groups risk appetite.
challenging the Executive on emerging risks and providing All functional areas complete amonthly risk and control expert risk and control advice to help maintain an effective attestation and aquarterly control effectiveness review.
risk management framework: and This allows the Group to ensure controls are fit for purpose maintaining agood working relationship with or, if required, implement remedial action.
each business area and Executive Committee members challenge and certify the appropriateness of these Risk Directors leading the four specialist teams: functional assessments.
provide independent advice, oversight and challenge Control effectiveness reviews are an important mechanism to the business: for developing and embedding risk policies and management develop and maintain policies, specific risk frameworks strategies aligned with the risks faced by the business.
and guidance to align business initiatives with regulatory requirements: and Role of the Risk Function establish and maintain appropriate governance structures, The Risk Function has four specialist teams and is headed culture, oversight and monitoring arrangements which by the Chief Risk Officer.
These teams provide oversight and ensure robust and efficient compliance with relevant risk independent challenge to line management and support appetite and policies.
senior management and the Board with independent reporting on risks and opportunities.
Risk Directors, responsible for specific risk classes, meet on aregular basis with the Chief Risk Officer to review and assess the risk profile of the Group and to ensure that mitigating actions are appropriate.
