Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 45 I 2015 Highlights 2 Chairmans Statement 8 Chief Executives Review 12 Market Overview 18 Business Model and Strategy 22 Delivering our Strategy 24 Delivering to our Stakeholders 28 Risk Overview 45 54 73 139 209 Risk Overview Effective risk management is a core part of our strategy.
Market risk management VirginMoney is a strong, customer-focused, low risk retail We do not operate a trading book and we have a limited bank, unburdened by legacy issues.
Our focus on maintaining appetite for market risk.
Our Group Treasury Function ensures a high-quality balance sheet is supported by our prudent full measurement, management and control of interest rate risk appetite, our strong risk culture and our robust approach risks, hedging all key exposures.
Risk decision making The amount and type of risk that we target and tolerate Our approach to managing risk is designed to support ourrisk appetite is reflected in our strategy and is designed the business in delivering sustainable growth.
We have to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and reward.
anintegrated approach to business planning and combine Risk as an enabler of growth, quality and returns achievable market share targets with prudent macroeconomic forecasts to ensure realistic growth targets.
Board risk Our business strategy and risk appetite is focused on appetite is embedded in the activities of Risk teams, creating a business that can continue to grow strongly, Commercial functions, Finance and Treasury.
Our business maintain a high-quality balance sheet and deliver sustainable plans are designed to generate a balanced mix offee and shareholder returns.
Risks are identified, managed and mitigated using our Risk Risk culture Management Framework see page 148.
The principal risks which could impact the delivery of our strategy, are outlined Our risk culture is aligned to our EBO philosophy and on pages 50 to 53. encourages accountability from each business area.
Astrongand independent Risk Function helps to ensure Commitment to balance sheet strength adherence to our risk management framework.
We place great importance on maintaining a well capitalised We are committed to nurturing a consistent risk culture business with a strong liquidity position.
Our approach throughout the business to support transparency and supports stable balance sheet growth, our credit rating, trust.
Our risk culture is founded on a clear articulation and Basel III requirements.
The business plan is designed of risk appetite, an effective governance structure and to mitigate the impacts of a range of stress tests including risk management framework, committed leadership, the UK variant stress, severe idiosyncratic stresses, rapid escalation of threats or concerns and the sharing liquidity stress tests and key sensitivities, while exceeding ofinformation across the organisation.
Monitoring against risk appetite Delivering asset quality Our risk analysis, management and reporting allow for We maintain high-quality mortgage, credit card and wholesale opportunities as well as risks to be identified and ensure that portfolios.
We continue to deliver strong asset quality as we they are managed in line with our appetite.
Our principal risks grow our retail portfolios.
Our lending meets performance and performance are monitored and reported regularly and targets which include asset quality guardrails.
are subject to appropriate stress testing.
This allows for the 95% of our wholesale portfolio is rated AA or above.
risk at both an individual risk class and aggregate portfolio level to be assessed.
Funding and liquidity management Our loan origination grows in line with available funding Robust risk management framework andwe fund before we lend.
Our funding plan is retail deposit Our approach to risk is fundamentally about a strong risk led with diversification into wholesale funding.
Our minimum culture and clearly defined risk appetite and is reflected in level of High Quality Liquid Assets is calibrated to our view the risk management framework.
Our risk framework allows of liquidity risks reflected in the Board approved minimum us to benefit from full engagement throughout the business liquidity requirement.
in developing controls to ensure that the business operates within approved risk appetite and limits.
indd 45 01 03 2016 11:08 46 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Risk Overview Achievements in 2015 Priorities for 2016 Credit ratings Macro environment In November 2015, rating agency Fitch revised Virgin Money As a UK retail bank we are focused on serving domestic plcs outlook to Positive from Stable and affirmed our long customers and continue to support and benefit from the term rating as BBB.
resilient UK economy and housing market.
We are however, very aware of the downside risks related to the impending Wholesale funding UK referendum on EU membership, the uncertain outlook Our funding position remains strong with a loan-to-deposit forinterest rates, and the recent market turbulence caused ratio of 107.5%.
During 2015 we saw an increase in our retail by the slowdown in emerging markets and falling commodity lending, the successful release of our 750 million Retail prices.
All of these have the potential to adversely impact Mortgage Backed Securities RMBS programme, Gosforth theUK economy.
A lower for longer forecast interest rate Funding 2015-1, and the first issuance of 300 million putspressure on net interest margins and therefore business Medium Term Notes.
Retail funding Wholesale funding During 2015, our deposits franchise continued to flourish.
Our funding strategy is to access wholesale funding to Deposit balances grew by 12% to 25.1 billion in 2015, supplement our core retail deposit base in order to optimise amarket share of 1.5%.
Our deposit balances provide astrong funding costs, extend tenor and ensure we have appropriate and stable funding mix.
diversification in the funding base.
As we develop our wholesale funding programmes, our mix of wholesale may Credit card migration rise, however, will remain relatively low as a proportion During 2015 we completed the migration of over of overall funding.
We have amended our risk appetite to 675,000 customer records onto our newly built credit accommodate a loan-to-deposit ratio of up to 115%, over card infrastructure, completing our program to transfer time from 110%, as a result of our successful participation ourcardsbusiness from MBNA.
In January 2016, Gosforth 2016-1 raised a further 803 million of funding across three tranches Regulatory change denominated in Sterling, Euros and U. S. Dollars.
We plan to Resolution and Recovery Plans were updated to reflect further improve wholesale diversification by issuing covered the requirements of the EU Bank Recovery and Resolution bonds in 2016.
Directive, ahead of new rules coming into effect in January 2016.
We have implemented the new Basel III Liquidity Stable balance sheet growth Coverage Ratio and applied for full regulatory permissions Our focus on asset quality and balance sheet efficiency under the FCA Consumer Credit Sourcebook CONC.
We have continues as the business grows.
Credit policy and decisioning made changes to our Advanced Internal Ratings Based capital systems are regularly reviewed and tested to ensure they models and refined our Pillar 2 approaches in the light of develop in response to changes in customer and competitor regulatory guidance.
behaviours, maintaining the quality of the portfolios.
Investment in infrastructure Enhancements have been made to the Groups financial crime Development of new product lines and delivery and information security systems to reflect the external channels threat landscape and evolving business strategy.
In addition, Risk will continue to support the business in its strategic a Chief Security Officer was appointed bringing us extensive initiatives, including the development of our SME strategy experience in the field.
andthe enhancement of our digital capability, to ensure theyare delivered within our risk appetite.
indd 46 01 03 2016 11:08 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 47 I 2015 Highlights 2 Chairmans Statement 8 Chief Executives Review 12 Market Overview 18 Business Model and Strategy 22 Delivering our Strategy 24 Delivering to our Stakeholders 28 Risk Overview 45 54 73 139 209 Buy-to-let Market Studies FCA Credit Card Market Study: Over the previous two In December 2015, the BoE Financial Stability Report cited years, the FCA has consulted firms as part of their Credit concerns over the growth in buy-to-let BTL lending and the Card Market Study, investigating consumer driven impact that a structural shift to the private rental sector may competition, cost recovery and unaffordable credit card have on market stability.
In addition, there have been several debt.
The final outcomes of the study are expected to be tax and regulatory changes that may collectively weaken reported in Spring 2016: the attractiveness of BTL to an investor.
These changes have added uncertainty to the outlook of BTL for both landlords FCA Cash Savings Market Study: Findings published in and lenders, particularly over the medium to long-term.
December 2015 propose remedies to improve disclosure, Ourmortgage business remains high-quality and is comprised switching and convenience for customers in the retail of 83% residential and 17% BTL mortgages.
We focus on BTL savings market: and for retail customers, rather than portfolio landlords, and our Competition Markets Authority CMA investigation affordability and rental cover requirements are prudent.
into current account and business banking sectors: Provisional findings published in October 2015 proposed Continued investment in infrastructure remedies focused heavily on switching, transparency and We recognise the pace of change in the external threat comparability.
We will continue to engage with the CMA environment and as such will continue to focus on ahead of publishing its final report in May 2016. development of capability to protect against cybercrime andinvest in risk systems and frameworks to enable the Capital Consultations further development of our digital offering.
We are fully engaged in the Bank of Englands consultation on minimum requirements for own funds and eligible Third party administration liabilities MREL and regulatory buffers.
Our capital We have a mature control environment regarding the planning assesses a range of outcomes from these oversight of key outsourcers and will continue to refine our consultations and the impact on our business plans.
As the number of business partnerships Thisallows for well informed capital planning.
grows, our reliance on excellent execution from third parties IFRS 9 necessitates more sophisticated approaches.
We will develop new models and practices to meet Regulatory change therequirements of this new accounting standard Delivery of regulatory change programmes will be a core intimefor its application in 2018. focus in 2016: Regulation Ring-fencing: The Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2013 will result in the ring-fencing of retail and commercial banking operations to separate them from investment banking activities.
Given that we are a UK focused retail bank, we expect our entire business will be within the ring-fence when it comes into effect at the beginning of 2019: and The Mortgage Credit Directive MCD : The MCD aims to create an EU wide mortgage credit market with a high level of consumer protection.
This includes new requirements for disclosure, foreign currency loans, training and competence, binding offers, APRs and cooling-off periods to be in force from March 2016.
indd 47 01 03 2016 11:08 48 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Risk Overview Risk Governance Board Chairman: Glen Moreno 1 Board Committees Risk Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chair: Colin Keogh Chair: Norman McLuskie Chairman: Marilyn Spearing Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Executive Committees Risk Management Committee Asset and Liability Committee Chairman: Chief Risk Officer Chairman: Chief Financial Officer Identifies and recommends risk appetite, manages risk within Responsible for management and monitoring of liquidity, agreed limits, monitors key risk exposures in relation to risk strategy funding, capital and asset and liability management and recommends the approach to managing all types of risk.
within agreed risk appetite and policy.
Management Committees Operational Risk, Conduct Risk Credit Risk Treasury Risk and Compliance Committee Committee Committee Functional Risk Boards 1 Additional Board Committees comprise Nomination Committee.
We manage risk strategy and appetite in tandem with The Board approved risk appetite incorporates the Boards overall strategy and use a comprehensive risk management tolerance for risk in pursuit of achieving our strategic framework tailored for each risk class.
Executive committees manage the business within that could affect the business both today and in the future the defined risk appetite and associated limits.
allows a comprehensive and consistent approach across We use a Three Lines of Defence model which defines clear all business areas.
responsibilities and accountabilities and ensures appropriate Effective governance is maintained through delegation of segregation of duties and effective independent assurance.
authority from the Board to the Executive, with committees designed to ensure our risk management approach is fully aligned with regulatory requirements and good industry practice.
indd 48 01 03 2016 11:08 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 49 I 2015 Highlights 2 Chairmans Statement 8 Chief Executives Review 12 Market Overview 18 Business Model and Strategy 22 Delivering our Strategy 24 Delivering to our Stakeholders 28 Risk Overview 45 54 73 139 209 Virgin Money Lounge, Manchester 4175 VM 0.1 Risk Overview.
indd 49 01 03 2016 11:08 50 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Risk Overview Risk Governance Principal risks Key mitigating actions Credit Risk We provide residential and BTL mortgages and credit cards credit risk is managed through risk stress and scenario testing allows us to to customers across the UK.
There is a risk that any adverse appetite and risk limits reflected in confirm portfolio resilience: changes in the economic and market environment and or the approved credit policy: credit risk metrics are benchmarked credit quality or behaviour of borrowers results in additional a robust credit risk framework helps against competitors and industry impairment losses thereby reducing profitability.
ensure that the credit quality and averages: and Wholesale exposures arise through the use of derivative composition of the portfolios remain credit risk arising from derivative and instruments to manage interest rate risk and the liquid within risk appetite limits.
This is from securities financing transactions is assetportfolio.
monitored and reported through mitigated by collateralising exposures governance committees regularly: on a daily basis.
Market Risk Market risk is the risk that unfavourable market moves lead market risk is managed through Board approved risk appetite limits and policy: toareduction in earnings or value.
We do not trade or make we mitigate exposures through the use of natural offsets and derivatives: and markets.
Interest rate risk is the only material category of market stress and scenario testing focuses on the impacts of differing interest rate risk for the Group.
Operational Risk Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate r isk appetite is focused on maturing w e continue to invest in and develop orfailed internal processes, people and systems or from external the control environment and therefore risk management frameworks, systems events, including legal risk.
The management of third party managing operational risk: and processes: and relationships, cybercrime and information security remain a p rogramme of investment in security w e monitor external events impacting akeyfocus for us.
infrastructure is in place to mitigate other financial services companies to threats including cyber attack: inform stress testing.
Conduct Risk and Compliance Conduct and compliance risk is defined as the risk that the compliance is maintained through we continue to invest in and develop Groups operating model, culture or actions result in unfair an effective and timely response to riskmanagement frameworks, outcomes for customers, and the risk of regulatory sanction, changes in the regulatory environment: systemsand processes: and material financial loss or reputational damage if the Group the customer is placed at the heart we focus on training to ensure fails to design and implement operational processes, systems of decision-making by ensuring fair colleague performance aligns with and controls and maintain compliance with all applicable outcomes through comprehensive risk customer accountabilities and .
assessment and testing: provides awareness of vulnerable customers needs.
indd 50 01 03 2016 11:08 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 51 I 2015 Highlights 2 Chairmans Statement 8 Chief Executives Review 12 Market Overview 18 Business Model and Strategy 22 Delivering our Strategy 24 Delivering to our Stakeholders 28 Risk Overview 45 54 73 139 209 Key risk indicators Commentary Future focus 0.31% 1.46% 2015 has seen improved arrears Continued delivery of strong 0.22% 0.96% performance and favourable asset quality aligned to HPI movements.
growth of the mortgage andcards books.
2015 2014 2015 2014 Wholesale credit performance 3 Arrears Mortgages 2 Arrears Cards remains stable with 95% Maintain our no loss of counterparties rated position for the wholesale 0.15% 96.0% 95.4% AA or above.
0.13% 2015 2014 2015 2014 Provisions as a % of Wholesale % AA or above customer balances Capital at Risk has increased in Refine our interest rate risk a positive rate shock scenario management systems and 32.2m 26.3m following growth in fixed rate approaches.
assets and liabilities, reflecting the risk that they terminate their 2015 2014 contract prior to the end of the fixed rate period.
This remains IRRBB Capital at Risk within risk appetite.
As expected, following the Continued investment in 2.20m set-up of the cards business, cybercrime defence, along 1.50m the absolute amount of losses with fraud and anti-money increased, but is low and remains laundering infrastructure.
2015 2014 Operational Losses The increase in total complaints Continue to protect the Groups 3.66 is due to the migration of the position with limited exposure credit card portfolio which has to conduct risk.
1.77 a complaints rate of 6.09 per 1,000 accounts.
2015 2014 Total Complaints per 1,000 accounts 4175 VM 0.1 Risk Overview.
indd 51 01 03 2016 11:08 52 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Risk Overview Risk Governance Principal risks Key mitigating actions Strategic and Financial Risk Strategic risk is the risk of significant loss or damage arising B oard focus is on ensuring alignment w e use robust risk and project from business decisions that impact the long-term interests of business development and planning management disciplines to ensure that of stakeholders or from an inability to adapt to external with risk appetite: implementation is delivered safely: developments.
w e invest in processes, systems, a ctive focus is on asset origination and recruitment and training to support portfolio management to eliminate Financial risk is focused primarily on concentration risk.
Credit new business developments: inappropriate concentration risk: and concentration risk is managed for retail and wholesale credit exposures at portfolio, product and counterparty levels.
r egular validation and review of models is performed.
Funding and Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk represents the inability to accommodate liability B oard approved risk appetite and a p rudent mix of funding sources is maturities and withdrawals, fund asset growth, and otherwise funding and liquidity policy define a maintained with a maturity profile set in meet contractual obligations to make payments as they fall due.
limit structure: risk appetite and policy limits: and Funding risk represents the inability to raise and maintain l iquid resources are maintained in s tress and scenario testing considers sufficient funding in quality and quantity to support the delivery of adequate quantity and quality to meet threats to funding plans and changes in the business plan.
Capital Risk Capital risk is defined as the risk that the Group has a sub-optimal Board approved risk appetite ensures capital procedures are subject to amount or quality of capital or that capital is inefficiently deployed we are holding sufficient capital within independent oversight: and across the Group.
regulatory requirements: stress and scenario testing assesses the capital management policy sets out capital adequacy under a range of minimum standards: severe market wide stress scenarios and idiosyncratic stress events.
The directors have determined that a three year period to Viability Statement 31 December 2018 constitutes an appropriate period over In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the which to provide its viability statement.
This is the period directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a focused on by the Board during the strategic planning process.
three year period, taking into account the Groups current Whilst the directors have no reason to believe the Group position and the potential impact of the principal risks and will not be viable over a longer period, given the inherent uncertainties, influencing the priorities for 2016, which are set uncertainty involved, we believe this presents users of the out on pages 45 to 53.
Based on this assessment, the directors Annual Report with a reasonable degree of confidence while confirm that they have reasonable expectation that the Group providing a longer term perspective.
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due in the period to 31 December 2018.
indd 52 01 03 2016 11:08 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 53 I 2015 Highlights 2 Chairmans Statement 8 Chief Executives Review 12 Market Overview 18 Business Model and Strategy 22 Delivering our Strategy 24 Delivering to our Stakeholders 28 Risk Overview 45 54 73 139 209 Key risk indicators Commentary Future focus We apply lending policy Focus on development of our restrictions which predominantly customer proposition and Greater London affect regions where we have digital capability.
South East 28% 28% 33% 33% concentrations of credit risk.
Scotland South West 8% 8% 24% 24% Other Regions 7% 7% Mortgage Mortgage concentration 2015 concentration 2014 Customer accounts 5% 5% Improved balance sheet Continue to improve 9% 11% Wholesale accounts efficiency and diversity of balance sheet efficiency Total equity funding were achieved through and resilience through RMBS and MTN issuance.
measured diversification of 84% 86% wholesale funding.
Funding mix 2015 Funding mix 2014 Capital metrics We have made improvements Continue to maintain a inrisk-weighted asset high-quality capital base with 2015 2014 calculation methodologies ratios in excess of regulatory % % which contributed to improved requirements.
CET1 19.0 Leverage ratio 4.0 4.1 In making this statement, the Board carried out a robust plausible events.
The Board also considers the ability of the assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, Group to raise finance and deploy capital.
These results take including those that would threaten its business model, account of the availability and likely effectiveness of the future performance, solvency or liquidity.
As described in mitigating actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the the Corporate Governance Report on pages 81 to 110 and impact or occurrence of the underlying risk.
Risk Management Report on pages 140 to 142, the Board As part of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment process monitored the Groups risk management and internal control ICAAP and Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA, systems, and carried out a review of their effectiveness.
The we perform a wide range of severe macro-economic and monitoring and review covered all material controls, including idiosyncratic stress tests.
The results of our stress testing financial, operational and compliance controls.
show that sufficient capital is held to cover the stress The Board considers annually, and on a rolling basis, a three scenarios and liquid resources, both in amount and quality, year strategic plan.
The output of this plan is used to perform to survive them.
Supporting capital and funding plans were stress analysis including a review of the sensitivity to business developed to survive the impact of the stress scenarios over as usual risks, such as profit growth and other severe but the planning horizon to 31 December 2018.
indd 53 01 03 2016 11:08 54 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Financial results 55 Summary of Group results 62 Divisional results Paula Radcliffe at the Virgin Money London Marathon 2015 4175 VM 0.2 Financial Results.
