Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 143 I The Groups Approach to Risk 140 Emerging Risks 143 Risk Governance 145 Risk Management 146 Risk Management framework 148 Risk Classes 149 Stress Testing 150 Full Analysis of Risk Classes 152 2 54 73 209 Emerging Risks The Group considers the following to be risks that have Cybercrime the potential to increase in significance and affect the Cyber attack is aserious and growing threat to the resilience performance of the Group.
of the UK financial system, reflecting increased use of technology in financial services.
Resilience to cyber attack Macroeconomic environment and the ability to recover quickly from attacks that inevitably occur are priorities in acybercrime landscape and threat While confidence is increasing in the stability of the UK environment that continues to evolve.
This is in the context financial system, there is arisk of contagion from increasing of digital technology that is changing customer behaviour, market volatility and geo-political uncertainty in other leading to changes in banking models.
regions, leading to aslow down in economic growth and adelay to expected increases in base rate.
Alower for longer Key mitigating actions interest rate puts pressure on net interest margins and the Group has increased the focus on digital capability and therefore business and financial performance.
The potential IT resilience: and for the UK to exit the European Union in the upcoming referendum could result in disruption to the UK consumer, the Group continues to invest in enhancing information UKeconomy and Europe more broadly.
security, fraud and anti-money laundering capability considering both the external threat environment and the Key mitigating actions changing risk profile of the business.
the Group regularly reviews earnings in light of economic forecasts.
The Group continues to test its readiness to Regulatory capital requirements respond to future increases in base rate and regularly While there is now greater clarity on regulatory capital assesses financial and operational impacts and customer requirements, there remains some uncertainty as the UK and implications such as affordability and vulnerability: European regulatory frameworks continue to evolve.
The the Group continues to ensure there is an appropriate Basel III global regulatory standards on bank capital adequacy, balance between profitability and customer outcomes stress testing and market and liquidity risk management aim using the EBO approach and philosophy: and to strengthen regulation, supervision and risk management in the banking sector.
The Group is compliant with current CRD the Group monitors customer behaviours, liquidity IV CRR requirements and will continue to respond to new position, counterparty vulnerability, operational capability guidance and technical standards as they are published.
and disruption to payment and other systems in its Brexit contingency planning.
Key mitigating actions the Board is focused on responding effectively, Buy-to-let lending and in atimely manner, to changes in the In December 2015, the BoE Financial Stability Report cited regulatory environment: concerns over the growth in buy-to-let BTL lending and the the business planning process incorporates the Groups impact that astructural shift to the private rental sector may forward view of emerging capital requirements: have on market stability.
In addition, there have been several regulatory horizon scanning ensures that risks are tax and regulatory changes that may collectively weaken mitigated within the context of risk appetite: the attractiveness of BTL to an investor.
These changes have added uncertainty to the outlook of BTL for both landlords the Group continues to invest in and develop up to date and lenders, particularly over the medium to long-term.
risk management frameworks, systems and processes: and Key mitigating action the Group undertakes stress and scenario testing as an the Group is monitoring developments in this sector integral part of its strategic and capital planning.
closely and will make the required amendments to lending policy, where appropriate.
indd 143 01 03 2016 11:35 144 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Risk Management Report Emerging Risks Supplier partnerships Competition regulation Regulatory and competition authorities continue to review The Group manages outsourced relationships with parties who key banking markets.
Market inefficiencies and consolidation support the credit card, investment and insurance business within the sector could change the competitive landscape and lines.
The Group have strategic suppliers for key components possibly impact market structures and margins.
Reliance on key corporate partners and strategic suppliers involves the potential risk of disruption Key mitigating actions toservice arising from the failure of athird party.
the Group is an active participant in the broad range of Key mitigating actions regulatory developments, including the Competition and Markets Authority investigation into current account and the Group continues to develop its supplier partnership business banking sectors: and and oversight capability to minimise the risk of service disruption caused by the failure of athird party: and the Group is supporting the FCA market studies into credit the Group engages specialist third parties to undertake card and cash savings, and will actively participate in the targeted reviews of supplier performance as required.
consultation process on proposed remedies.
Banking Reform Unit trust management Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Limited VMUTM The Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2013 introduces is exposed to movements in stock markets.
The sole aring-fence for UK retail banks, with the aim of separating income stream of VMUTM is reliant upon investment core banking services critical to individuals and small and fund performance.
medium-sized enterprises from wholesale and investment banking services.
The Group anticipates being afully Key mitigating action ring-fenced bank by the 2019 implementation date and the Group currently mitigates the risk associated with is preparing for this change.
The Group has responded stock market movements and their impact on earnings to changes to the PRAs rules implementing the EU Bank through the use of aFTSE hedge.
Key mitigating actions the Group has ongoing engagement with HM Treasury, the PRA and the BoE on the evolving UK regulatory framework and the impact of EU directives: and resources have been mobilised to assess the impacts of ring-fencing and propose potential responses to consultation which are aligned to the Groups strategy.
