a a II c c d d t t ii e e o o a a n n n n r r t t s s e e ii e e f f k k h h r r a a y y s s t t e e n n ii r r ii y y q q f f d d f f u u f f ii s s ii t t c c r r s s u u n n o o e e o o r r a a n n d d t t r r u u t t h h g g r r Q Q e e o o ll r r s s t t h h s s Q Q y y e e k k f f u u ii s s n n t t ii a a Strategic Report How We Manage Risk THE RISK AGENDA During the year, the Board has reviewed the Risk Appetite Statement, the effectiveness of the systems of risk management and internal control and conducted a robust Managing assessment of the principal risks affecting the Group.
These activities meet the Boards responsibilities in connection with Risk Management and Internal Control set out in the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
risk The Board reviewed the Risk Appetite Statement which was approved with only minor amendments and is set out below.
The aim of the Risk Appetite Statement remains to highlight the risks that we should be willing to take, as well as those which are unacceptable.
The statement includes a series of risk assertions which are effectively aligned to our strategy, together with the risk parameters within which we expect our people to work.
The risk appetite is all of the risk assertions and the parameters We operate in a complex global environment, taken together.
The parameters can apply to more than one risk assertion, and therefore the individual risk where risks offer opportunities as well as assertions should not be read in isolation.
Our objective is to allow our people to with the Risk Appetite Statement is monitored through be decisive, so we can take advantage of attractive the Groups standard monitoring and reporting opportunities whilst ensuring we are not exposing mechanisms.
The Board will continue to review and update the Risk Appetite Statement on an annual basis.
the organisation to excessive risk.
Details of the review of the internal control and risk management systems undertaken during the year are Figure 1: contained in the Audit Committee Report on page 92.
Risk Management Cycle RISK MANAGEMENT The management of risks is at the core of the internal control framework.
We have a risk management policy which defines how we expect risks to be identified, assessed and managed throughout the organisation.
Risks are assessed, and quantified, in terms of impact and likelihood of occurrence, both before and after control mitigation.
Assessing the gross risk before control mitigation allows the business to review the relative impact of the existing controls by comparing the gross and net risk assessment.
This also allows the business to avoid wasting resources on mitigating controls and actions which have a negligible impact on the risk assessment.
The impact of risks is quantified across a range of factors including: financial: strategy: reputation: people and property: ability to perform services: regulation, environment, health and safety: and investors and funding.
The risk management policy includes defined criteria for each risk impact factor, supporting a consistent measurement approach.
Risk management takes place at the grassroots level, for example in individual projects, all the way up to Group level assessments, thereby providing an integrated bottom-up and top-down approach to risk management.
The Weir Group PLC 20 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 n n r r e e n n t t e e t t e e ii r r d d f f ii h h I I s s y y t t k k II d d e e m m n n ii t t t t e e ii a a ii g g r r f f n n u u t t a a y y r r d d t t s s ii o o t t s s c c n n h h p p a a o o g g e e e e n n, , r r r r r a a t t o o r r e e c c t t d d o o x x ii t t ll ii n n n n ii s s o o s s a a o o t t n n ii M M s s n n g g I: Strategic Report II III The specific risks identified across the business generally fall under one of the categories within the Risk Universe as shown below.
Figure 2: Risk Universe Strategic risk Hazard risk Operational risk Compliance risk Financial risk Industry and Political and People.
Laws and Financial market social instability.
Technological and other major Quality.
internal fraud Acquisitions Intellectual Accounting and corruption.
Not all risks are controllable or foreseeable, a key example being natural disasters.
Our response to such risks is having controls which lessen the impact to our business should they occur.
For example, in the case of natural disasters, we have controls in place to reduce the risk of harm to our people, as well as response planning protocols, with clear accountability, to minimise disruption to operations and our customers.
RISK APPETITE STATEMENT The Weir Group is strategically positioned in markets with good long-term growth prospects.
We will pursue ambitious growth targets, and we are willing to accept a higher level of risk to increase the likelihood of achieving or exceeding our strategic priorities, subject to the parameters below.
Organic growth: We will rigorously pursue divisional Investment of resources will be consistent with organic growth strategies to meet our market growth divisional strategies and expected divisional compound objectives.
We recognise that our end markets are annual growth rates over five year plans.
subject to cyclicality and we plan to have sufficient flexibility to manage through the cycle.
Mergers and acquisitions M&A : We will actively Post-tax returns should exceed our cost of capital within pursue M&A opportunities that enhance our strategic three years of the acquisition.
platform subject to meeting investment criteria.
Returns and profitability: We will not pursue growth Short term margin dilution is acceptable in gaining at all costs, and expect high margins, strong returns market entry but over the cycle we aim for top quartile on capital and working capital discipline together with operating margins and returns on capital.
Capital allocation: We will encourage capital Planned IRR on capital expenditure projects should not expenditure in pursuit of our growth ambitions subject be less than 20%.
to Internal Rate of Return IRR and achievement of Group free cash flow targets.
Capital structure: We are prepared to use leverage in We will seek to maintain the ratio of net debt EBITDA pursuit of our growth agenda and will actively seek low below two times current financial covenants 3.5 times cost debt to fund the Group but will maintain significant and will retain adequate headroom within our debt headroom against our financial covenants.
Reputation and brand image: We will avoid manage No tolerance for breaches of: situations or actions that could have a negative impact Legislative statutory requirements.
on our reputation and brands.
We aim to be transparent Weir Code of Conduct.
with all of our stakeholders unless prejudicial to our International sanctions.
Environment, health and safety EHS : We will not Total Incident Rate 0.8 and EHS Audit Score 50%.
undertake or pursue activities that pose unacceptable N o fatalities.
hazard or risk to our people, the communities in which Active community and environmental engagement we operate, or the broader environment.
No tolerance for breaches of Weir EHS system.
Country presence: We are prepared to enter No tolerance for breaches of: new countries which offer opportunities for growth Legislative statutory requirements.
consistent with our overall strategy.
We will not enter, Weir Code of Conduct.
or will exit, countries which present a high risk of harm International sanctions.
to our people, damage to our reputation, or breach of Delegated authority levels.
Innovation: We will invest in technology research and Target research and development spend 2% of sales.
development to innovate our customer offering allowing us to maintain and expand our market share.
The Weir Group PLC 21 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 P Po olic lici ie es s an and d d fide ec ci is sion ions s Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Risk responsibilities and reporting Ultimately, the Board is responsible for the Groups risk and internal control framework.
It has set out the decisions, and hence the level of risk, which can be delegated to the Group Executive, divisional and operational company management without requiring escalation.
This is articulated in a series of Group policies and delegated authority matrices, as well as the parameters within the approved Risk Appetite Statement.
The Board and committee structure can be viewed on page 80.
The bottom-up risk reporting approach requires key risks identified, and reported, at project level to be escalated to the operating company management, which in turn may be escalated to divisional management, and ultimately to the Risk Committee and the Board.
This is achieved through risk dashboard reports, which are maintained at operating company, divisional and Group levels.
The dashboards provide a summary of the major net risks at Board and each respective level, as well as a summary of the key sub-committees mitigating controls and actions, and further control actions required.
Group Executive The Risk Committee monitors quarterly risk dashboard reports from the operating companies and divisions.
In addition, the Risk Committee has oversight of the Risk Committee Group Risk Dashboard, along with a routine review of key controls identified to manage each risk and the sources of controls assurance, providing an update to the Board Divisional management at each Board meeting.
The Board obtains assurance over risks and risk management through the internal control framework.
More information on the internal control framework can be found within the Corporate Operating company management Governance Report on page 84 and within the Audit Committee Report on page 92.
Figure 3: Risk responsibilities and reporting Case study Inform Information s ation se ec cu uri rit ty y training training Information security, also known actions on the part of the individual can could ultimately lead to data leakage, as cyber security, is the protection potentially have a disproportionately large financial loss, reputational damage or of information and information negative impact on an organisation.
The comprehensive systems from unauthorised access, light of this, in 2015 the Company rolled training programme is mandatory and use, disclosure, disruption, out a new online information security completion is monitored by the General modification or destruction in order awareness training programme, known as Counsel and Company Secretary.
to provide confidentiality, integrity InfoSmart, to all employees with IT Following the initial roll out in 2015, and availability.
Through the promotion of good the training will form part of all staff practice in their everyday activities, the inductions and refresher courses will Cyber security is set apart from most programme aims to mitigate the overall be undertaken periodically.
forms of corporate risk in that very minor risk to Weir by changing behaviours that The Weir Group PLC 22 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Re Rep po or rt ti in ng g I: Strategic Report II III The key roles and responsibilities for risk management are set out below: Risk management responsibilities Board Annual review and ongoing monitoring of the effectiveness of the risk Overall responsibility for the Groups management and internal control frameworks.
risk management and internal control Annual review of the Groups risk appetite.
frameworks, and strategic decisions On a biannual basis, receive a report from the Risk Committee which within the Group.
sets out the current assessment of each principal risk, the effect of mitigating controls on each risk, the direction of travel of each risk versus the prior year, the extent to which each could potentially impact the Groups strategic goals and any relevant findings relating to significant control failings or weaknesses which have been identified.
Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Audit Committee Annual assessment of the effectiveness of the risk management Delegated responsibility from the Board and internal control frameworks.
to review the effectiveness of the Groups Review of reports from the internal and external auditors.
risk and internal control frameworks.
Review of the results from the six-monthly self-assessment compliance scorecards.
Risk Committee Review of the design and operation of the Group Risk Management Management committee responsible Policy and Framework.
for governance of the Groups Risk Identification and assessment of the key risks facing the Group, Management Policy and Framework.
identification of the key controls mitigating those risks and identification of further actions where necessary.
Review of the Divisional Risk Dashboards, considering the appropriateness of managements responses to identified risks and assessing whether there are any gaps.
Reporting key Group and divisional risks to the Board.
Prepare a biannual Risk Committee Report for the Board.
Group Executive Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery Executive committee with overall of the Groups strategic objectives.
responsibility for managing the Group to Monitoring business performance, in particular key performance ensure it achieves its strategic objectives.
indicators relating to strategic objectives.
Taking strategic decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Escalating issues to the Board as required.
Excellence Committees Monitoring the management of key risks across the Group associated Engineering with the respective remits of the Excellence Committees.
Environment, Health & Safety Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, Finance policies and standards related to the respective remits of the HR Excellence Committees.
Group Information Services Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Value Chain Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Management committees with representatives from across the Group in their respective areas of focus.
The committees govern activities and performance in the individual functional areas.
Divisional management Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery Responsible for managing the businesses of the divisions strategic objectives.
within the divisions to ensure divisional Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, strategic objectives are achieved and there policies and standards within the divisions with regard to the is compliance with Group policies and outputs from the Excellence Committees.
Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
Operating company management Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery Responsible for ensuring company of their companys strategic objectives.
objectives are achieved and business Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, activities are conducted in accordance policies and standards within their company.
with Group policies and standards.
Escalating issues to divisional management and Excellence Committees as required.
The Weir Group PLC 23 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks and uncertainties As in any business, there are risks and uncertainties which could impact the Groups ability to achieve its objectives in the future.
However, we believe the Groups risk management and assurance framework makes this less likely.
The Board has conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks, alongside the risk appetite statement set out on page 21, meeting the Boards responsibilities in connection with Risk Management and Internal Control detailed in the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Each of the principal risks is assigned an owner from amongst the Board or Group senior management team and is either a standing agenda item at each Board meeting or subject to formal periodic review by the Board.
A summary of principal risks and the Groups mitigating controls is presented at every Board meeting.
The Directors reviewed the Groups risk register, reassessed the validity of the principal risks identified in the prior year and considered whether any new principal risks have emerged or a risk is no longer considered a principal risk.
The identified principal risks were subjected to a detailed assessment based on the following considerations: severity of each risk: existence and effectiveness of actions and internal controls which serve to mitigate the risk: KEY TO SYMBOLS the overall effectiveness of the Groups control environment, including assurance and any identified control weaknesses or failings: and Risk increasing the extent to which each of the principal risks could impact upon the Groups viability, in financial Risk unchanged or operational terms, due to their potential effects on the business plan, solvency or liquidity.
Risk decreasing The principal risks set out below are those which we believe to have the greatest potential to impact Considered as our ability to achieve the Groups strategic objectives or which have the greatest potential impact on part of Viability the Groups solvency or liquidity.
Statement assessment Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2015 Global economic conditions Changes in key markets, We need to remain sufficiently We maintain regular Market conditions have remained including commodity prices flexible to allow us to anticipate engagement with our challenging during 2015, with affecting mining and oil and downturns, to allow us to adjust customers to understand commodity prices in oil and gas gas, have an adverse impact our operations accordingly, their needs and challenges, joining those in minerals markets on customers expenditure and equally to meet growth in and ensure our business is at recent historical lows.
This may include demand when our customers appropriately aligned.
Necessary adjustments have delaying existing expenditure markets are buoyant and Our strategic planning been made to our operations to commitments.
therefore capital investment is utilises extensive market accommodate our customers high.
Otherwise, we are at risk intelligence to assist in responses to these market of incurring unnecessary costs forecasting opportunities conditions.
during downturns, and not and dips in markets.
maximising our potential for We maintain contingency growth in buoyant markets.
In challenging market conditions, our supply chain risks are increased.
These are described in more detail on page 26.
The Weir Group PLC 24 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2015 Technology and innovation We fail to drive innovation or to The strength of our business is Continual investment in The pace of technological react to emerging technology built upon a history of delivering research and development, innovation continues to increase developments, and therefore innovative and sustainable including the Weir Advanced as we and our competitors seek to fail to ensure that the business solutions for our customers.
Research Centre WARC in provide customers with solutions continues to deliver sustainable If we fail to keep abreast of conjunction with the University that improve the efficiency of their and attractive solutions for market needs or to innovate of Strathclyde.
To ensure we continue our customers.
solutions, we are at risk of losing We have a dedicated to retain competitive advantage in market share to our competitors governance team Engineering this area, our existing research and and lowering margins as demand Excellence Committee development initiatives within the will reduce.
focused on the delivery of business, at WARC, and at certain our strategic objectives for universities around the world, technological advances and have been enhanced through our innovation to meet the needs partnership with Imperial College of our customers.
This partnership will help Weir Technical Advisory Board the Group develop game-changing established comprising highly solutions to our customers regarded experts to ensure challenges.
We are also devoting Weir continues to be at the additional resources to reviewing leading edge of technology and responding to developing development in our technologies and have signed an chosen industries.
agreement with Microsoft Corporation to develop Internet of Things IoT technology.
Further information on progress made in this area is set out in the Products and Technology section of the Sustainability Review on pages 58 and 59.
Political and social risk Adverse political action, or We operate across the globe and Regular review of market In response to increased security political and social instability, in therefore have to work within a attractiveness.
risks, arising from changes in the territories in which we operate wide range of political and social Monitoring travel by political environment in certain may result in strategic, financial conditions.
Adverse events may Weir employees to higher countries where the Group has or personnel loss to the Group.
occur in the territories in which risk locations.
operations, enhancements have we operate that may require us External expert risk been made to the Groups access to act swiftly to protect our assessments and regular to expert risk assessments and people, our property and to monitoring in higher risk plans to respond to adverse maintain our competitiveness, locations.
events in higher risk locations.
and we need to be flexible and Contingency plans and exit During the course of 2015, the able to anticipate such issues.
environment in which a number Expansions into new territories Our strategic planning assists of the Groups businesses are only undertaken after in forecasting potential political operate continued to be rigorous assessment of the risks, and social instability in regions.
challenging and uncertain, including the social and political especially from a security situation within the territory.
During the year we appointed a Group Head of Security to a newly created role designed to improve the ways in which these concerns are addressed and mitigated.
The Weir Group PLC 25 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2015 Supply chain management Failure to achieve supply chain If we fail to improve our supply R egular KPI monitoring of the Supply chain remains an area management improvements chain management, we risk: supply chain throughout the of strategic focus for the Group.
and the associated reduction in organisation.
Supply chain improvements losing the opportunity to costs and enhanced flexibility.
The Groups operations are continue to be recognised year on invest capital into alternative currently implementing Value year as the Group realises benefits value creating opportunities: Chain Excellence initiatives from its focused approach to damaging our reputation and amongst other business these matters.
In 2015, we have as a consequence losing improvement objectives.
seen underlying improvements customers and market share: Established Centres of in working capital, including circa incurring penalties as a result Excellence drive cost savings, 65m in our Oil & Gas division, of late delivery contractual efficiencies and enhance and substantial progress in clauses: delivery standards whilst improving on-time-delivery for all reducing margins by incurring maintaining quality.
divisions with a 21% and 20% unnecessary additional costs The Groups forward purchase improvement in Oil & Gas and associated with late remedial commitments are being closely Power & Industrial respectively.
actions taken to avoid missing monitored to manage A programme of Value Chain delivery targets: and inventories at levels appropriate Excellence initiatives has been holding excess inventory in to market conditions.
launched throughout the Group to the event of a market Our credit risk management drive supply chain improvements.
procedures are under continuous appraisal and their application is subject to specific internal audit review.
Environment, health and safety EHS Failure to adequately protect our We operate in hazardous The Weir Behavioural Safety The Group is never complacent people and other stakeholders environments, and therefore have system is in place to reduce in relation to EHS matters.
from harm associated with a fundamental duty to protect our the risk of safety incidents.
Committed to achieving the a breach in EHS standards.
people and other stakeholders In addition, there are initiatives highest of standards, the from harm whilst conducting our to prevent the most common Group continues to set business.
As well as the personal accident types.
The Weir higher benchmarks for EHS impact on our people resulting global EHS standards are compliance and roll out cohesive from a failure to meet this continually reviewed.
programmes to address obligation, we would also be at The EHS Excellence EHS risks and drive safe and risk of: Committee is responsible sustainable working practices.
for monitoring performance Improvements have been made reputational damage leading and compliance with Group throughout the year to our to a loss of customers: objectives, policies and EHS Board reporting and legal action from regulators, standards relating to EHS.
assurance activities and our including fines and penalties: There is a formal EHS key performance indicators in and assurance programme with place to measure our success exclusion from markets issues escalated as required in mitigating EHS risks continue important for our future through the reporting to show improvement.
The Weir Group PLC 26 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2015 Contract risk We fail to adequately manage We operate in an increasingly The Group has policies and Contract management has contract risk and as a complex and competitive procedures for contract become an area of increased result commit to obligations environment where customers acceptance and approval.
focus for the Group, given which the Group is unable are not only highly focused on These are under continuous the competitive environment.
to meet without incurring price and service but are also review and improvement to Amongst other initiatives, certain significant unplanned costs.
more challenging in contract ensure they are adequate for of the Groups policies and negotiations.
current and future procedures have been reviewed In addition, failure to follow circumstances.
and refreshed to provide Group policies and procedures The tools and training employees with improved tools As we offer a broader range may lead to commitments available to employees to assist them in their contract of products and services to our without the desired level of responsible for contract management activities.
customers, including those contractual protections.
management are similarly that are more technologically under continuous review.
advanced, we risk exposing the Group to reputational and financial loss should our contract acceptance, negotiation and approval processes fail to protect the Group accordingly.
IT security and continuity Failure to maintain business Up-to-date data allows us to We continually review IT security and continuity systems or technical make informed decisions about the effectiveness of our continues to be a matter of infrastructure that serves our business.
Therefore, we key IT security controls strategic priority for the Group.
require reliable and efficient IT in consultation with Progress to strengthen the systems and infrastructure to external experts.
Groups defences in this Failure to successfully execute provide our data requirements.
There is regular reporting respect is being made, including changes to these business Breaches of our IT security could of unplanned outages and developing the Weir Cloud systems or technical have serious consequences for potential security breaches, programme which aims to infrastructure: together with our business, including: with lessons learned across rationalise our IT infrastructure failure to minimise disruption the Group.
interruption to business and maintain business as usual We have an IT Governance operations: and activity during technical Framework with a focus loss of intellectual property infrastructure or business on structured change and other sensitive data.
management techniques, including setting project The Group is investing in a Failure to adequately protect governance levels in line significant IT transformation the business operations with risk.
If this is not from cybercrime.
External assurance being managed effectively, the obtained on the Tier 1 IT consequences could include transformation projects.
interruption to business The security arrangements operations if data is unavailable around all of the Groups due to unsuccessful execution information assets will be of change, impacting our ability revised following the to compete and our reputation transition to the Weir Cloud in the market.
Policies, procedures and baseline standards in relation At present, the Groups principal to cyber risk and IT security exposures to cybercrime relate to more generally are continuously the misappropriation of cash and updated and rolled out to data.
Our revenue streams are operations.
A programme of largely protected as our products user training in relation to are not currently electronic in cyber risk is being rolled out.
nature and we do not, as a rule, transact over the internet.
The Weir Group PLC 27 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2015 Cost competitiveness Failure to deliver cost Customers are increasingly There is continual focus on Cost competitiveness remains competitive products and focused on the price maximising the efficiency of a strategic priority for the Group.
services, or failure to deliver competitiveness of products and our products to ensure the Initiatives to expand production sufficiently differentiated services as they seek to lower solutions provided to in best-cost locations are products and services which operating costs.
If the Group fails customers deliver the best developing in South Africa and justify a price premium through to demonstrate the value of our overall value, allowing our Malaysia and the procurement lowest total cost of ownership products and services, it risks customers to meet their cost function continues to drive value propositions.
reduction strategies through cost and quality improvements lower energy costs and through the Groups supply chain.
The key component Centres of Excellence are driving cost efficiencies, whilst maintaining quality.
Expansion of production in best-cost locations, including foundry expansions in Malaysia and South Africa.
We regularly monitor market activity to ensure we remain competitive.
Ethics and governance Interactions with our people, We are unwilling to accept The Code of Conduct, The governance and legislative customers, suppliers and other dishonest or corrupt behaviour supplemented with Group environment in which the Group stakeholders are not conducted from our people, or external policies on related topics, operates continues to evolve and with the highest standards of parties acting on our behalf, provides a clear benchmark become more complex.
The integrity which devalues our whilst conducting our business.
for how we expect our Group has further developed and reputation.
If we fail to act with integrity, business will be conducted.
grown its operations in we are at risk of: Regular training is provided geographies where ethical using a range of mechanisms standards may not be as well reputational damage leading including Town Hall style established as in other countries.
to a loss of customers: sessions, online and The Group has reinforced its i ncreased scrutiny from induction training.
commitment to high standards of regulators: The financial control ethics and governance through legal action from regulators framework is continually the Code of Conduct and including fines, penalties and monitored for effectiveness.
completed a programme of imprisonment: and Internal Audits remit includes training for key individuals.
exclusion from markets regular review of the In addition, the Group has important for our future anti-bribery and corruption developed and issued a Group growth.
and financial controls across Competition Law Manual, which the Group.
The Group Legal again is being accompanied by team is responsible for related training for those in monitoring compliance with relevant roles.
The Weir Group PLC 28 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2015 Staff recruitment, development and retention new Failure to recruit, develop or Our people represent our biggest Promotion of the Weir Group Recognising the ever increasing retain key management and asset and failure to attract, develop Values & Behaviours, Code of need to recruit, develop and staff may lead to disruption and retain key management and Conduct and HR Policies sets the retain the very best staff, this to the Groups operations, staff would have a detrimental standards and expectations for all was included within our Principal functions and processes.
impact on the Groups ability to our staff, reinforcing our stated Risk assessment during the year.
deliver our key strategic objectives.
commitment to attracting and We continue to focus on these retaining the very best people.
key areas including obtaining H igh performer assessments feedback through staff surveys are undertaken to identify and and measuring the success of develop our very best talent.
our Leadership and Development Succession plans are in place Programmes.
Recognising the and periodically reviewed for importance of effective ongoing all of our key management.
staff communication we continue Personal Development Plans are to provide information and set and reviewed for the effective updates through our Global development of all of our staff.
Intranet, Town Hall meetings Continue to offer competitive and team briefings.
Personal development programmes including Weir University and the Weir Leadership Programme are open to participation by high potential staff members and these continue to attract high calibre individuals.
A number of assumptions were made, including: VIABILITY STATEMENT The Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks i the period over which commodity prices would remain at their facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business current lows: ii the impact on working capital cycles in an extended model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Those principal risks market downturn scenario: and iii the mitigating actions that could as described on the preceding pages and annotated with have be executed to reduce the impact of the stress-test.
been determined by the Board as having the most significant potential impact on the Groups longer-term viability.
While this review does not consider all of the risks that the Group may face, the Directors consider that this stress-testing based assessment The three year period to 31 December 2018 was used as the period over of the Groups prospects is reasonable in the circumstances of which to assess the prospects of the Company, reflecting the average the inherent uncertainty involved.
The geographical and sector duration of previous cycles in both the minerals and oil and gas markets.
diversification of the Groups operations helps minimise the risk of The Group is, however, currently experiencing a prolonged downturn in serious business interruption or catastrophic damage to our reputation.
its key markets with a lack of short-term visibility over commodity prices, While the Group remains exposed to the cyclicality of the markets in and related production activity.
Given this, the Board believes a period which it operates, it continues to have a balance sheet that provides of three years best presents the readers of the Annual Report with capacity in which to operate.
In addition, our ability to flex our cost a reasonable degree of confidence over the longer-term outlook.
base to reflect our existing markets as evidenced by our recent cost reduction programmes protects our viability in the face of the From a financial modelling perspective, the potential impact of those adverse economic conditions and or additional risks highlighted.
principal risks identified as most relevant to supporting the viability statement was considered relative to the Groups strategic plan.
In light of the financial modelling undertaken, it was determined that The strategic plan is prepared and submitted to the Board annually none of the risks would compromise the Groups viability when taken to facilitate discussion and decision-making in relation to longer-term individually.
When taken in aggregate there are sufficient mitigating business planning, for example geographic coverage, manufacturing actions within the control of the Board and management to offset the footprint and capacity planning and so extends for a period of five impact of the stress-test such that the Groups longer-term viability years.
The plan makes certain assumptions including those about would not be adversely impacted.
The mitigating actions considered market share, performance of the core revenue streams and market in the process included, but were not limited to, further restructuring segments and the success of cost management initiatives, both actions, reduction in capital expenditure and dividend payable, and ongoing and strategic.
The output of this plan is also used to perform disposal of assets.
longer-term central debt and headroom profile analysis, including a review of sensitivity to business as usual risks, such as profit As set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 92, the Audit growth, working capital variances and return on capital investment, as Committee reviewed and challenged the process undertaken well as projected compliance with the Groups debt facility covenants.
by management and also reviewed the results of the enhanced stress-testing, alongside the available mitigating actions and Financial sensitivity modelling was undertaken by firstly considering potential impact on debt headroom and covenant levels.
each identified principal risk in isolation and then a stress-test scenario was modelled which comprised a severe but plausible combination On the basis of this assessment, and in accordance with provision of events to represent the crystallisation of a number of individual C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Directors principal risks.
The latter enhanced stress-testing resulted in scenario confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company planning for further market downturn in relation to commodity prices, will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall plus a combination of one-off shocks to the financial results of the due over the period to 31 December 2018.
The Directors' statement Group corresponding to: political and economic risk: contract failure: on going concern is presented in the Directors' Report on page 120. market disruption due to innovative technology: and environment, The Weir Group PLC 29 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
