Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has carried out a robust assessment of its risks and controls during the period under review.
In doing so it has established a robust process to identify and monitor the risks faced by the Company which has been in place since prior to the date at which the Company began trading 21 April 2015.
The process involves the maintenance of a risk register, which identifies the risks facing the Company and assesses each risk on a scale, classifying the likelihood of the risk and the potential impact of each risk to the Company.
This helps the Audit Committee and Board to focus on any identified risk of particular concern and aids with the development of the Board's risk appetite.
In developing the risk management process, the Board took into consideration the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the Finance Reporting Council.
The Board has established controls to mitigate against risks faced by the Company, which are reviewed on a regular basis to ascertain the effectiveness of each control.
The Companys operations are undertaken by third-party service providers as detailed on page 24.
The third-party service providers have established controls to mitigate against risks identified by the Board.
The controls and operations of each service provider are subject to a detailed analysis of their operations, which includes testing their key systems to identify any weaknesses, by independent auditors on at least an annual basis.
The findings of each review are detailed in Assurance Reports, copies of which are provided to the Audit Committee for its review, so that it can gain a greater understanding of the risk management processes and how they apply to the Companys business.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company in 2015 are set out below.
Operational manager that any change in its key The Company may use borrowings for The Company has no employees and professionals will be notified to the Board at the purpose of capital flexibility, which the directors have been appointed on a the earliest possible opportunity and the may include seeking to enhance non-executive basis.
The Company is Board will be made aware of all efforts made investment returns where the portfolio reliant upon the performance of to fill a vacancy.
Furthermore, investment manager believes that it is in the third-party service providers for its decisions are made by a team of interests of shareholders to do so.
Failure of any of its professionals, mitigating the impact the loss the use of borrowings should enhance third-party service providers to perform of any key professional within the portfolio the total return of the Company where in accordance with the terms of its managers organisation may have on the the return on the Companys underlying appointment could have a material Companys performance.
assets is rising and exceeds the cost detrimental impact on the operation of of borrowing, it will have the opposite the Company.
Furthermore, any of the The shares may trade at a discount to effect where the return on the Companys service providers could net asset value whereby the shares Companys underlying assets is rising at terminate their contract.
The manager, can be traded on the open market at a lower rate than the cost of borrowing the portfolio manager, the depositary, a price that is lower than the value of or is falling, further reducing the total the company secretary and the their underlying assets.
Similarly the return of the Company.
As a result, the administrator will be performing shares may trade at a premium to net use of borrowings by the Company services which are integral to the asset value whereby the Companys may increase the volatility of the net operation of the Company.
Failure by shares can trade on the open market at asset value and could affect the any service provider to carry out its a price that is higher than the value of ability of the Company to achieve its obligations to the Company in their underlying assets, resulting in investment objective.
accordance with the terms of its shareholders purchasing shares at a The Board sets the gearing parameters for appointment, together with a failure price that is higher than the value of the the portfolio manager to utilise at its by the Company to enforce such terms, underlying assets.
discretion with the aim of maximising could have a materially detrimental The Board closely monitors the level of shareholder return.
The Board closely impact on the operation of the Company.
discount or premium at which the shares monitors the Companys level of gearing, if The performance of the Companys service trade on the open market.
Furthermore, the Company is restricted providers is monitored closely by the Board.
trade at a discount the Board may seek to to deploy no more than 20% of net asset Further information on how the Board buy back shares in an effort to narrow the value as gearing, limiting the damage monitors the performance of its service discount at which the shares are trading on gearing can have on the Companys net providers is on page 50 under the heading the open market.
When the shares trade at asset value in times of decline.
As at the Management Engagement Committee.
a premium the Board may issue shares in date of this report the Company does not an attempt to reduce the premium at which have any gearing.
The departure of some or all of the the shares trade.
As at 31 December 2015 portfolio managers investment the shares were trading at a premium to The Company is expected to invest a professionals could prevent the net asset value.
significant proportion of its assets in Company from achieving its investment early-stage companies and early-growth objective.
In particular, Neil Woodford Investments companies which, by their nature, may is considered a key individual as the There is no guarantee that the Companys be smaller capitalisation companies.
fund manager principally responsible investment objective will be achieved.
Such companies may not have the for the management of the Companys The Companys investment decisions are financial strength, diversity and assets.
The past performance of the delegated to the Companys portfolio resources of larger and more established portfolio managers investment manager, Woodford Investment Management companies and may find it more difficult professionals cannot be relied upon LLP.
The Companys performance is closely to operate, especially in periods of low as an indication of the future monitored by the portfolio manager and economic growth.
The market in the performance of the Company.
the Board and reviewed in more detail at shares of such companies may be less The portfolio manager has developed a each Board meeting.
Any mitigating action liquid and, as a consequence, their suitable succession planning programme is taken as deemed appropriate by the share prices may be more volatile than which seeks to ease the impact the loss of portfolio manager, whilst remaining mindful investments in larger companies.
a key investment professional may have to not to compromise long-term growth for The Companys portfolio is monitored the Companys performance.
The Board has short-term gain.
closely by the Board and portfolio manager.
reached an agreement with the portfolio The Company seeks to invest in a diversified 26 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc portfolio across a wide range of companies hedge against declines in the value of its status which would create a capital gains and investment vehicles, including larger, portfolio as a result of changes in currency tax liability for the Company in respect of well-established and fully-listed companies exchange rates although the success of any the Companys portfolio.
Northern Trust so as to mitigate against the risk posed by such hedging cannot be guaranteed.
Global Services Limited, as the Companys early-stage or early-growth companies.
Details of the other financial risks faced by appointed administrator, monitors this and Furthermore, the Company has established the Company can be found in note 22 on reports to the Board if it becomes aware a number of investment restrictions, in pages 82 to 85 together with an explanation of any breach to CTA.
particular the Company may not invest more as to how they are mitigated against.
than 60% of its net asset value at the time The Company is subject to various of investment in unquoted companies.
The effects of both normal market legislation and regulations.
Any breach fluctuations and the ongoing effect of of its legislative obligations could have The Company is expected to invest a the recent global economic crisis may a negative impact on the Company and significant proportion of its assets in impact the Companys business, impact any returns to its shareholders.
unquoted securities, which may be less operating results or financial condition.
The Companys appointed company liquid and more difficult to realise than These are factors which are outside the secretary and AIFM closely monitor the publicly traded securities.
Unquoted Companys control and which may affect the legislation and regulations to ensure that holdings are hard to value.
volatility of underlying asset values and the the Company complies with its statutory The Company was established with the aim liquidity and the value of the Companys obligations.
The AIFM and company of providing long-term growth.
The Board adopted a number of secretary provide detailed reports short-term liquidity problems with any of investment restrictions which aim to diversify summarising how the Company has the Companys underlying holdings would the Companys portfolio to mitigate against complied with its statutory obligations at be mitigated over time.
The portfolio the risk of market turbulent conditions.
Furthermore, the manager cannot invest more than 60% of its The portfolio manager and Board closely Board may, at its discretion, seek legal advice net asset value at the time of investment in monitor the Companys portfolio and any or the advice of the Companys appointed unquoted companies in accordance with mitigating action is taken accordingly to auditors to advise on any area of uncertainty the Companys investment restrictions, respond to prevalent market conditions.
Other than as part of the hence restricting the Companys risk to Furthermore, the Company may hold up to Companys listing the Board did not seek the unquoted holdings.
The Company has 10% of its assets in cash which may be services of legal advisers or the auditor.
appointed Duff & Phelps, an independent utilised by the portfolio manager at its third-party valuation company, to assist in discretion to help protect the Company valuing the unquoted securities.
against the effect of any short-term turbulent market conditions.
In addition the Company The Companys ordinary shares are is likely to invest in unquoted holdings which quoted in Sterling.
The assets of the are not subject to daily market fluctuations.
Company may be invested in securities which are denominated in currencies Regulations other than Sterling.
Accordingly, the Any change in the Companys tax status value of such assets may be affected or in taxation legislation or practice favourably or unfavourably by generally could affect the value of the fluctuations in currency rates.
The investments held by the Company, Company is also subject to other financial affect the Companys ability to provide risks including interest risk, other price returns to shareholders, or alter the risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The Companys portfolio manager and AIFM Part of the process that is undertaken when closely monitor the Companys exposure analysing each of the Companys to foreign currency.
To mitigate against any investments involves an analysis of its risk of loss of shareholder returns the tax status and the impact to the Company.
portfolio manager seeks to invest across In order to maintain its investment trust a range of jurisdictions and therefore dilute status the Company is required to comply Key any risk exposure to any single jurisdiction.
with section 1158-9 of the Corporation Tax Risks and uncertainties The Company has the ability to utilise Act 2010 CTA.
A breach of CTA would result Mitigation derivative instruments when required to in the Company losing its investment trust Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 27
