Strategic Report MANAGING RISK IN DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY Our assessment of risk is a cornerstone of our strategy and our risk management is fundamental to its delivery.
The most significant judgements affecting our risk appetite include our assessment of prospective property returns, development exposure and our leverage.
The KRIs are reviewed quarterly by the Risk Committee to ensure that the activities of the business remain within our risk appetite.
The bottom-up approach involves identifying, managing and monitoring risks in each area of our business.
This way, risk Lucinda Bell management is embedded in our everyday operations.
Control Chair of the Risk Committee of this process is provided through maintenance of risk registers in each area.
These risk registers are aggregated and reviewed by Our risk appetite remains broadly unchanged.
We maintain our focus the Risk Committee, with significant and emerging risks escalated on sectors where we see sustainable outperformance, that is high for Board consideration as appropriate.
This process complements quality UK retail and London offices.
In developments we have the top-down view by helping us identify our principal risks and continued to deliver on our 2010 programme and have committed to ensuring that operational risks are fully considered in determining new developments to manage our development exposure in line with the risk appetite and the corresponding strategy of the business.
Our approach to monitoring leverage has evolved: rather than target a specific LTV range, we aim to ensure that Our principal risks are detailed in the table that follows.
These our LTV does not exceed a maximum threshold if yields were to rise to remain unchanged from the prior year with two exceptions.
This means we do not gear up solely on market The Economic and Political outlook risk has been separated into yield shift and consequently LTV has reduced in the year.
Internally we two distinct economic and political risks, reflecting the differing have undertaken some significant change projects to improve the drivers of these risks and their divergent paths.
In addition we operational effectiveness and efficiency of our business.
While this have separated Development risk into Development Exposure inevitably presents a degree of operational risk, we believe we have and Development Cost Inflation to reflect the differing nature the right people in place to manage change effectively.
In the current of these risks.
year, we have been conscious of the increased risk of terrorist activities at our assets and have tested our crisis response plan Risk governance to ensure it is robust.
The Board takes overall responsibility for risk management with a particular focus on determining the nature and extent of significant Our approach to risk management risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The At British Land, we take the view that our assessment of risk is a Audit Committee assesses the principal risks facing the Company, cornerstone of our strategy and our embedded risk management including those that would threaten its solvency or liquidity.
Its is fundamental to its delivery.
Our integrated approach combines evaluation of these solvency risks is described further in the Going a top-down strategic view with a complementary bottom-up Concern section on page 76 and a description of how these risks operational process.
are managed and mitigated is included in the Financial Strategy Execution risk in the table of principal risks which follows.
The top-down approach involves a review of the external environment in which we operate.
This guides assessment of the The Audit Committee takes responsibility for overseeing the risks which we are comfortable taking in pursuit of our performance effectiveness of sound risk management and internal control objectives this is our risk appetite.
This evaluation guides the systems and more information on the system of internal controls actions we take in executing our strategy.
Key risk indicators KRIs can be found on page 79. have been identified for each of our principal risks and are used to 56 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk management at a glance The diagram below summarises the complementary top-down and bottom-up aspects of our integrated approach to risk management.
The Executive Directors are responsible for delivering the Companys strategy and managing operational risk and a Risk Committee has been established to provide a forum to fulfil these responsibilities.
The Directors in turn place reliance on their teams to monitor and manage operational risks on an ongoing basis, and to identify emerging risks.
The risk registers provide a framework for all staff to feed into this process recognising their shared responsibility for effective management of risk in delivering our strategy.
More can be found on the structure and role of the Risk Committee in the Governance section on page 70 Top-Down Bottom-Up Strategic risk management Operational risk management Review external environment Set risk appetite and parameters BOARD Assess effectiveness of risk management systems AUDIT COMMITTEE Determine strategic action points Report principal risks and uncertainties Direct delivery of strategic actions RISK COMMITTEE Consider completeness of identified risks and Monitor key risk indicators adequacy of mitigating actions Executive Directors Consider aggregation of risk exposures across the business Execute strategic actions Report priority and emerging risks Report on key risk indicators BUSINESS UNITS Identify, evaluate, prioritise, mitigate and monitor operational risks recorded in risk register Risk Management in Action Crisis Response During the year the Executive Committee see page 70 for a definition undertook a simulation exercise to test the Companys crisis response plan.
The scenario involved responding to a bomb explosion affecting one of our Central London office estates.
The Executive Committee demonstrated the steps that would be taken in order to handle such an incident, ranging from dealing with the emergency services, liaising with key stakeholders and operating telephone helplines.
This was a valuable exercise to satisfy ourselves that our crisis response plan is robust and can be executed on a real time basis in response to a catastrophic external event.
As well as giving us confidence that we are well prepared to handle such an event, the exercise also gave us the opportunity to refine and further enhance our response plan for the future.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS External Risks Risks and impacts How we monitor Movement in the period and manage the risk Economic The economic recovery and the The Risk Committee reviews the economic The UK economic recovery continued prospect of increasing interest rates environment in which we operate quarterly to this year with improving GDP growth, outlook present risks and opportunities in assess whether any changes to the economic low unemployment and low interest property and financing markets and outlook present risks or opportunities which rates.
Low oil prices and low inflation the businesses of our occupiers.
should be reflected in the execution of expectations coupled with the return our strategy.
Indicators such as forecast GDP of wage growth has resulted in an growth, unemployment, business and consumer increase in consumer confidence.
confidence, interest rates and inflation deflation are considered, as well as central bank guidance and government policy updates.
Significant upcoming political We are not able to influence the outcome There are a number of uncertainties Political events bring risks in two areas: of significant political events, but take the regarding the composition of the EU.
outlook reluctance of investors uncertainty related to such events and the We have been mindful to consider the and businesses to make range of possible outcomes into account impact of the possibility of the UK leaving investment decisions whilst the when making strategic investment and the EU and of any revised terms of EU outcome remains uncertain: and financing decisions.
membership as this would need to be on determination of the outcome, We engage public affairs consultants to ensure managed carefully.
the impact on the case for that we are properly briefed on the potential investment in the UK, and of policy and regulatory implications of political specific policies and regulation events.
Where appropriate, we act with other introduced, particularly those industry participants to influence the debate which directly impact real estate.
Reduction in investor demand The Risk Committee reviews the property There was a high level of investor demand Commercial for UK real estate may result market quarterly to assess whether any in UK commercial property during the year, property in falls in asset valuations and changes to the market outlook present risks both from domestic and international investor could arise from variations in: or opportunities which should be reflected in investors.
The low cost of finance to many demand health of the UK economy: the execution of our strategy.
The Committee investors heightened the attractiveness of attractiveness of investment considers indicators such as the margin property investment in the UK.
in the UK: between property yields and borrowing costs availability of finance: and property capital growth forecasts which relative attractiveness are considered alongside the Committee of other asset classes.
members knowledge and experience of market activity and trends.
We focus on those sectors which we believe will deliver outperformance over the medium term, benefiting from continuing occupier demand and investor appetite.
Cost inflation presents a risk to the For each project we make a judgement about Construction cost inflation significantly Development profitability of our development apportionment of construction risk.
Where increased throughout the year as a result cost inflation projects and has the potential to we retain this risk we aim to fix costs early in of the supply and demand dynamics within adversely affect our cash position the process, subject to other market factors, the construction industry.
As such we have and overall return on investment with key contractors subject to financial decided it is appropriate to recognise this covenant review.
We factor in construction cost inflation for our projects as part of the investment appraisal process to assess the viability of each development.
We are working with our supply chain on initiatives to address emerging skills shortages and potential resource constraints that could impact development costs in the long term.
KEY Change from last year Risk exposure has increased No significant change in risk exposure Risk exposure has reduced Our principal Key Risk Indicators are highlighted within How we monitor and manage the risk.
58 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risks and impacts How we monitor Movement in the period and manage the risk Occupier Underlying income, rental growth The Risk Committee regularly reviews indicators The London office occupational and capital performance could be of occupier demand including consumer market continued to strengthen due demand adversely affected by weakening confidence surveys, employment forecasts to a combination of constrained supply and tenant occupier demand resulting from for relevant occupier sectors and ERV growth and increased demand from an default variations in the health of the forecasts.
These are considered alongside increasingly diverse occupier base.
UK economy and corresponding the Committee members knowledge and weakening of consumer experience of occupier plans, trading For retailers, there was continued confidence and business performance and leasing activity in demand for retail space that matches activity and investment.
guiding execution of our strategy.
the nature of their omni-channel Occupier failures may adversely We have a Key Occupier Account offerings demonstrating the need for impact underlying income and programme through which we work us to have continued customer focus.
together with our occupiers to find ways Changing consumer and business to best meet their evolving requirements practices including the growth of including understanding how our stores internet retailing, flexible working fit with their omni-channel offer.
practices and demand for energy We perform rigorous occupier covenant checks efficient buildings, new and review these on an ongoing basis so that technologies, new legislation we can be proactive in managing exposure to and alternative locations may weaker occupiers.
result in earlier than anticipated We have linked leadership on environmental obsolescence of our buildings if issues with our business strategy and set evolving occupier and regulatory future proofing goals to respond to customer requirements are not met.
demand, including complying with new energy and water legislation.
British Land prides itself on taking a leadership position in defining and responding to environmental legislation impacting the built environment.
We expect our office developments to be BREEAM Excellent and our major retail developments to be BREEAM Very Good at a minimum.
Reduced availability of property Benchmark borrowing rates and measures We saw a continued increase in the Availability financing may adversely impact of real estate credit availability are monitored availability of finance to commercial and cost of our ability to refinance facilities by the Risk Committee quarterly and considered property across a range of sources.
finance and result in weaker investor alongside Committee members awareness of Overall financing costs remained at demand for real estate.
financing activity in the industry to guide our historic lows throughout the year.
Increasing finance costs would financing actions in executing our strategy.
We maintain good relationships with our key financing partners and advisors to maintain an awareness of financing market activity.
We maintain a diverse range of sources of finance to provide flexibility to access funding as required.
We are mindful of relevant emerging banking regulations, working with industry bodies and other relevant organisations to participate in the debate where our interests are affected.
An external event such as a civil We maintain a comprehensive crisis response The Home Office threat level from Catastrophic emergency, including a large-scale plan across all business units as well as a international terrorism increased from Business terrorist attack, extreme weather head office business continuity plan.
substantial to severe reflecting events in Event occurrence or environmental The Risk Committee monitors the Home Office the Middle East and some isolated incidents disaster could severely disrupt terrorism threat levels and we have access closer to home in Europe.
The nature, global markets including property to security threat information services.
location and target of terrorist attacks and finance and cause significant Asset emergency procedures are regularly have become harder to predict.
Security damage and disruption to our reviewed and scenario tested.
procedures across our portfolio have been portfolio and operations.
Physical security measures are in place at reviewed and enhanced as appropriate.
Asset risk assessments are carried out e. g. security, flood, environmental, health and safety.
We also have appropriate insurance in place across the portfolio.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Internal Risks Risks and impacts How we monitor and Movement in the period manage the risk Investment In order to meet our strategic Our investment strategy is determined to Chris Grigg commented In the year we objectives we must invest in and be consistent with our target risk appetite took advantage of strong investment strategy exit from the right properties at and is based on the evaluation of the markets to recycle capital.
significant progress in our residential Progress against the strategy and continuing sales, particularly at Clarges and Significant underperformance alignment with our risk appetite is discussed continued to re-shape our Retail portfolio could result from inappropriate at each Risk Committee with reference to the by disposing some of our more mature determination and execution property markets and the external economic assets.
We successfully executed a property of our property investment environment.
exchange with Tesco PLC resulting in strategy, including: Individual investment decisions are subject increased exposure to multi-let retail parks sector selection and weighting: to robust risk evaluation overseen by our and shopping centres while simultaneously timing of investment and Investment Committee including consideration decreasing our exposure to superstores.
divestment decisions: of returns relative to risk adjusted hurdle rates.
We were also an active buyer in the market, exposure to developments We foster collaborative relationships with with notable acquisitions at Canada Water sector, asset, tenant, region our co-investors and enter into ownership and Paddington.
We remain confident that concentration: agreements which balance the interests our chosen sector focus will deliver co-investment arrangements.
outperformance over the medium term.
RESPONSIBLE EXECUTIVE: Our investment strategy is outlined Chris Grigg on pages 22 to 26 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: Right places Development provides an We maintain our levels of total and speculative Tim Roberts commented We reached Development opportunity for outperformance development exposure as a proportion of the the final stages of our 2010 development exposure but this brings with it elevated risk.
investment portfolio value within a target range programme with the completion of The care with which we make our taking into account associated risks and the Leadenhall during the year and 5 Broadgate decisions around which schemes impact on key financial metrics.
This is monitored to follow after year end.
We were successful to develop when, as well as our quarterly by the Risk Committee, along with in achieving record city rents at the execution of these projects, progress of developments against plan.
Leadenhall Building and made significant must reflect this.
For each project we make a judgement about pre-sales at Clarges thereby reducing our apportionment of construction risk.
As a result we were confident Development risks could adversely retain this risk we fix costs early in the process, in committing to 4Kingdom Street during impact underlying income and subject to other market factors, with key the year and exploring our options at capital performance including: contractors subject to financial covenant review.
Blossom Street, Canada Water and 100 development letting exposure: Pre-let targets are used to reduce development Liverpool Street without breaching our risk construction timing and costs: letting risk where considered appropriate.
We actively engage with the communities in which we operate, as detailed in our Community For more on our development programme, RESPONSIBLE EXECUTIVES: Charter, to ensure that our development activities see pages 38 to 39.
Charles Maudsley, Tim Roberts consider the interests of all stakeholders.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: We manage environmental and social risks Right places across our development supply chain by engaging with our suppliers, including through our Sustainability Brief for Developments and Health and Safety Policy.
A number of critical business Our HR strategy is designed to minimise Chris Grigg commented Our expert people People processes and decisions lie in risk through: are a key asset and their decisions and the hands of a few people.
informed and skilled recruitment processes: actions drive our performance.
There is a highly competitive compensation and benefits: significant level of change activity within the Failure to recruit, develop and retain people development and training: business and while we are mindful of the staff and directors with the right employee engagement surveys and impact this has, we also believe that we skills and experience may result other initiatives.
have the right people in role to deliver in significant underperformance.
We are committed to We monitor this through the number of making British Land a great place to work RESPONSIBLE EXECUTIVES: unplanned executive departures in addition and offer a suite of training and development Chris Grigg to conducting exit interviews.
Our high level STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: of staff engagement was recognised by Expert people We engage with our outsourced suppliers maintaining a One Star rating in the Sunday to make clear our requirements in managing Times Best Companies to Work For survey.
key risks including health and safety, fraud and bribery and other social and environmental risks.
60 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risks and impacts How we monitor and Movement in the period manage the risk Income We must be mindful of maintaining We undertake comprehensive profit and cash Charles Maudsley commented We are sustainable income streams in flow forecasting incorporating scenario analysis investing in our Retail portfolio to ensure we sustainability order to continue to generate to model the impact of proposed transactions.
are meeting the demands of our occupiers returns for our shareholders We monitor our market letting exposure and their customers.
We achieved a number and provide the platform from including vacancies, upcoming expiries and of leasing successes in excess of ERV, which to grow the business breaks and tenants in administration as well occupancy rates increased and footfall through development and as our weighted average lease length.
continued to be above benchmarks capital appreciation.
We perform rigorous occupier covenant checks throughout the year.
We recognise that in and review these on an ongoing basis so that delivering our investment strategy and We consider sustainability of our we can be proactive in managing exposure to selling some of our mature assets, we have income streams in: weaker occupiers.
had to be conscious of the impact on our execution of investment We are proactive in addressing key lease breaks income sustainability.
Additionally, we are strategy and capital recycling, and expiries to minimise periods of vacancy.
also mindful of the challenges facing the notably timing of reinvestment We have a diversified occupier base and industry and continue to monitor our of sale proceeds: monitor concentration of exposure to individual exposure to occupiers at risk of default nature and structure of occupiers or sectors.
leasing activity: We actively engage with the communities nature and timing of asset in which we operate, as detailed in our For more on how we manage our portfolio, management and development Community Charter, to ensure that we see pages 16 to 21. activity.
provide buildings that meet the needs of all relevant stakeholders.
RESPONSIBLE EXECUTIVES: Charles Maudsley, Tim Roberts STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: Customer orientation We must maintain a capital We monitor our LTV in order to manage Lucinda Bell commented How we monitor Capital structure which recognises the leverage levels over the cycle.
capital structure and our approach to LTV structure balance between performance, We manage our investment activity, the size evolved during the year: we consider our leverage risk and flexibility.
and timing of which can be uneven, as well as LTV in the context of valuation movements our development commitments to ensure that across the property cycle rather than target Leverage magnifies returns, both our LTV level remains appropriate.
Our clear strategy is positive and negative.
that we do not gear up on market yield shift An increase in leverage increases and hence our LTV reduced over the year.
the risk of a breach of covenants on borrowing facilities and may For more on our financial policies, increase finance costs.
RESPONSIBLE EXECUTIVES: Lucinda Bell STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: Capital efficiency We must be judicious in the We have five key principles guiding our Lucinda Bell commented We continued to Finance management of our financing as financing which together are employed to operate an efficient debt book in the year, strategy our strategy here addresses risks manage the risks in this area: diversify our providing the flexibility required for our execution both to our continuing solvency and sources of finance, phase maturity of debt investment activity and, in conjunction with the stability of our profits.
portfolio, maintain liquidity, maintain flexibility, our hedging policy, stability of financing maintain strong balance sheet metrics.
We were successful in refinancing at Failure to manage the refinancing page 54 for further details.
attractive rates during the year including requirement may result in a shortage We closely monitor the period until one of our joint ventures with Tesco.
Given of funds to sustain the operations of refinancing is required, which is a key our sales and purchases profile, we also the business or repay facilities as determinant of financing activity, and use focused on managing the repayment of they fall due.
scenario modelling tools to evaluate the existing facilities and ensuring our level likelihood of covenant breach.
of committed facilities is appropriate.
This and a breach of financing We are committed to maintaining and covenant limits are considered to enhancing relationships with our key For more on our financial policies, be significant risks to the continuing financing partners.
see pages 53 to 55 operations of British Land as a going We are mindful of relevant emerging regulation concern.
See page 76 for further which has the potential to impact the way that consideration of going concern.
RESPONSIBLE EXECUTIVE: Lucinda Bell STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: Capital efficiency British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 Governance and remuneration Governance and remuneration Board of Directors 64 Board of Directors biographies 66 Chairmans governance review 68 Our governance structure 70 Governance review 72 Report of the Audit Committee 78 Report of the Nomination Committee 82 Remuneration report Letter from the Chairman 86 Summary of Remuneration Policy 88 Implementation report 98 Directors report and additional disclosures 113 Directors responsibility statement 115 62 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Photo taken by Ian Hall 2 Kingdom Street British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63
