RISK MANAGEMENT Derwent London aims to deliver above average long-term returns to shareholders whilst operating in accordance with the Groups risk appetite.
The Board uses theGroups risk management system to ensure that risks to the Groups strategy areidentified, understood and managed, recognising that such risks are inherent inrunning any business.
RISK ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE Overall responsibility for risk management and the Groups system of internal controls rests with the Board which has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee and the RiskCommittee.
Executive management is responsible fordeveloping the Groups risk management system and fordesigning, implementing, maintaining and evaluating thesystems of internal control.
The following diagram illustratesthe Groups risk management structure: BOARD Overall responsibility for risk management and internal controls RISK COMMITTEE SENIOR MANAGEMENT AUDIT COMMITTEE TEAM Responsible for non-financial Responsible for financial internal controls Provides input to Committees internal controls review processes Monitors and reviews the Monitors and reviews the Groups risk register external audit process and reports EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Prepares the Groups risk register Develops the Groups risk management system Reviews the operation of key controls 72 Strategic report As shown by the Average risk by category graph below, Risk management and culture the average weighted risk score is lower in 2015 than in 2014.
The Board is responsible for managing the Groups risk prole The Board has considered whether this is a reasonable in an environment that reects the culture and organisation of change and concluded that it reects three main factors: the business.
Key matters to note in this regard are: As the Groups net asset value has increased, it becomes Senior management encourages an open and transparent inherently more resilient to the financial effect of a number culture throughout the business.
of risks that in the past would have represented a higher The close day-to-day involvement of the Directors in impact to the Group.
the business allows any system weaknesses to be As the Groups rental income increases and its portfolio of identied quickly.
tenants becomes more diverse, the risk presented by any The Group mainly operates out of a single ofce in one tenant defaulting is reduced.
central London which is within close proximity to most During 2015 some controls and mitigating measures relating of its properties.
to key risks were revised and improved so reducing the risk The senior management team is experienced and stable weighting of those particular risks.
and overall staff turnover is low.
See page 68 for more information on Our People.
2015 major risks The Group has a Whistleblowing Policy which is supported by an independent advice line.
The Groups risk management framework was prepared within High 6 the context of this operating environment and consists of its 8 Risk Appetite Statement, a Risk Management Policy document and a Risk Management Process document.
The Boards 4 5 2 approach to risk management recognises that not all risk can be eliminated at an acceptable cost and that there are some risks that, given its experience, the Board will choose to accept.
7 3 9 1 The Risk Register, which is prepared by the Executive Committee, is the core element of the Groups risk management process.
The first stage in its preparation is for the Committee to identify the risks facing the Group.
An assessment is then made collectively by the Committee of the following matters: The likelihood of each risk occurring.
The potential impact of the risk on each different aspect of the business.
Low Impact High The strength of the controls operating over the risk.
Increased risk Unchanged risk This approach allows the final assessment to reect the effect Decreased risk of the controls and any mitigating procedures that are in place.
The Register and its method of preparation have been reviewed by the Risk Committee.
In order to gain a more comprehensive understanding of the risks facing the business and the Increased management thereof, the Risk Committee periodically receives Unchanged presentations from senior managers.
Further information on the work of the Risk Committee can be found on page 114.
Decreased 0 12345 Code Provision C. 2.3. of the 2014 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Board to monitor Strategic Operational the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
Financial To comply with this requirement, the Executive Committee undertook an interim review of the Risk Register and the operation of the Groups key controls in August 2015.
In addition the Risk Committee considered the adequacy of Average risk by category the controls operating over the top nine risks facing the Group to supplement its annual review of the Risk Register and controls.
Following these extra processes, the Board is satisfied that High the Groups risk management and internal control systems operated effectively throughout the period.
For 2016 the Group intends to introduce a set of key risk indicators to enhance its assessment of the operation of the key controls.
The Groups Risk Register includes 44 risks split between strategic risks, operational risks and finance risks.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group in 2016 include one new risk namely the risk of default by a contractor or Low sub-contractor.
These are: Strategic Operational Shortage of future development opportunities.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 73 Average weighted score Probability RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group in 2016 are set out on the following pages together with the potential effects, controls and mitigating factors.
Strategic risks That the Groups Business Model does not create the anticipated shareholder value or fails to meet investors expectations.
Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 1.
Inconsistent strategy The Group carries out a five-year strategic The last annual strategic review was The Groups strategy is inconsistent with the review each year and also prepares an carried out by the Board in June 2015. state of its market.
annual budget and three rolling forecasts This considered the sensitivity of six key which cover the next two years.
In the course measures to changes in underlying 2.
Inconsistent development programme of preparing these documents the Board assumptions including interest rates and The Groups development programme is not considers the sensitivity of the Groups KPIs borrowing margins, timing of projects, level consistent with the economic cycle.
andkey ratios to changes in the main of capital expenditure and the extent of assumptions underlying the forecast thereby capital recycling.
Both these risks would affect the Groups ability modelling different economicscenarios.
to deliver all of its strategic objectives.
The three rolling forecasts prepared during The Groups plans can then be set so the year focus on the same key measures as tobest realise its long-term strategic but may consider the effect of varying goals giventhe most likely economic and different assumptions to reect changing The Group continues to benefit from a strong market conditions and the Groups risk economic and market conditions.
However, this could be appetite.
This exibility is largely due to adversely affected by a number of high level The timing of the Groups development theGroups policy of maintaining income economic factors such as uncertainty caused programme and the strategies for fromproperties for as long as possible by Brexit the referendum on the UKs continuing individual properties reect the outcome untildevelopment starts.
membership of the EU, the effect of the ofthese considerations.
Chinese economic slowdown or London losing The level of future redevelopment Approximately 50% of the Groups portfolio its Safe Haven status.
This would reduce the opportunities in the Groups portfolio enables has been identied for future redevelopment.
value of the Groups portfolio with a consequent the Board to delay marginalprojects until effect on two of its KPIs total return and total market conditions arefavourable.
During the year the Groups loan-to-value property return.
ratio fell from 24% to below 18%, its net The Board pays particular attention, when interest cover ratio was above 360% and setting its plans, to maintaining sufficient The Board sees the level of both these risks the REIT ratios were comfortably met.
headroom in all the Groups key ratios, to have slightly increased since last year.
financial covenants and interest cover.
Pre-lets were secured over 240,250 sq ft during 2015.
Pre-lets are sought to fide-risk major projects.
Reputational damage All new members of staff benefit from an The Group employs a Head of Investor The Groups reputation is damaged through induction programme and are issued with and Corporate Communications and unauthorised and inaccurate media coverage.
retains the services of an external PR agency.
Both maintain regular contact Social media channels are monitored by This risk would impact on the Groups delivery withexternal media sources.
of three of its strategic objectives.
The Company engages with a number The Group takes advice on technological oflocal community bodies in areas where changes in the use of media and adapts it operates as part of its CSR activity.
It would most directly impact on the Groups total shareholder return one of its key metrics.
There is an agreed procedure for approving Indirectly it could impact on a number of the all external statements.
The Board considers the risk has increased slightly over the year.
Link to business model Key Acquire properties and unlock their value Risk increase Create well-designed space Risk unchanged Optimise income Risk decrease Recycle capital Maintain strong and exible nancing 74 Strategic report Financial risks That the Group becomes unable to meet its financial obligations or finance the business appropriately.
Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 4.
Increase in property yields The impact of yield changes on the Groups The Group produces three rolling Increases in interest rates can lead to higher financial covenants and performance are forecasts each year which contain property yields which would cause property monitored regularly and are subject to detailedsensitivity analyses including values to fall.
sensitivity analysis to ensure that adequate the effect of changes to yields.
Quarterly management accounts report This risk would impact on the delivery of three The impact of yield changes is considered the Groups performance against of its strategic objectives.
when potential projects are appraised.
The Groups move towards mainly Project appraisals are regularly reviewed unsecurednancing over the last few years and updated in order to monitor the effect It would affect the following KPIs: has made management of its financial of yield changes.
Interest rates have remained low for an extended period of time and yields have decreased further during the year.
Interest rates areexpected to rise within the next two years.
Though there is no direct relationship, this maycause property yields to increase in duecourse.
The risk was assessed as high last year and the Board considers it to have remained at a similar level this year.
Operational risks The Group suffers either a financial loss or adverse consequences due to processes being inadequate or not operating correctly.
Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 5.
Reduced development returns Standardised appraisals including The Group is advised by leading planning The Groups development projects do not contingencies and inationary cost increases consultants and has considerable produce the anticipated financial return due are prepared for all investments and in-house planning expertise.
One major toone or more of the following factors: sensitivity analysis is undertaken to ensure planning consent was received in the year.
that an adequate returnis made in all Executive Directors represent the Delays in the planning process.
circumstances considered likely to occur.
Groupon a number of local bodies Increased construction costs.
Development costs are benchmarked whichensures that it remains aware Adverse letting conditions.
toensure that the Group obtains oflocal planning issues.
This would have an effect on the Groups The procurement process used by the totalreturn and total property return KPIs.
Regular cost reports are produced for the Group includes the use of highly regarded Executive Committee and the Board that rms of quantity surveyors and is designed The risk would affect delivery of one of the monitor progress of actual expenditure to minimise uncertainty regarding costs.
This allows The Groups style of accommodation potential adverse variances to be identied remains in demand as evidenced by the and addressed at an early stage.
79 lettings achieved in 2015 which totalled The Board considers this risk to have remained The Groups cost committee meets on 523,800 sq ft. broadly the same over the last year.
aweekly basis to consider new budget The Group has often secured significant requests or amendments.
pre-lets of the space in its development Post completion reviews are carried out programme which signicantly fide-risks forallmajor developments to ensure that those projects.
33 pre-lets were secured improvements to the Groups procedures in 2015 over 240,250 sq ft. canbe identied and implemented.
Alternative procurement methods are evaluated as a way of minimising the impact of increased construction costs.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 75 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Operational risks continued.
Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 6. Business interruption The Groups IT systems are protected by Independent internal and external The Group is either the victim of a cyber attack anti-virus software and rewalls which are penetration tests areregularly conducted or suffers a disaster that results in it being continually updated.
to assess the effectiveness of the Groups unable to use its IT systems.
No matters were raised as a The Groups data is regularly backed up and result of the 2015 test.
This would lead to an increase in cost and Staff awareness programmes are adiversion of management time.
Increased The Groups Business Continuity Plan was delivered to alert staff to the techniques costs would have an impact on the Groups revised during 2015 and successfully tested that may be used to gain unauthorised total return KPI whilst a significant diversion of in November.
access to the Groups systems.
management time would have a wider effect.
Multifactor authentication has been Security measures are regularly reviewed The risk would affect the delivery of all the introduced for both internal and external by the IT steering group.
The Head of IT regularly reports to the The Groups IT department has access to Executive Committee.
cyber threat intelligence and analytics data.
Due to the heightened assessment of this risk An independent benchmarking review of Incident response and remediation policies in2014 a number of improvements have been the Groups cyber security has been are in place.
made to the controls and mitigating factors carried out.
during 2015 and as a consequence the Board Cyber insurance is being evaluated.
considers the risk to have reduced over the year.
Regulatory non-compliance Each year the Groups Risk Committee A Health and Safety report is presented The Groups cost base is increased and receives a report prepared by the Groups atall Executive Committee and main management time diverted through a breach of lawyers identifying legislative regulatory Board meetings.
any of the legislation that forms the regulatory changes expected over the next 12 months The Executive Committee receives regular framework within which the Group operates.
and reports to the Board concerning reports from the Head of Sustainability.
An increase in costs would directly impact The Group pays considerable attention The Group employs a Head of Health and onthe Groups total return KPI.
A significant tosustainability issues and produces Safety who reports to the Board.
diversion of management time could affect anannual sustainability report.
awider range of key metrics.
The Group employs a Head of Sustainability The Group has reviewed and revised its who reports to the sustainability committee It would impact on the delivery of three of the whistleblowing policy during the year.
which is chaired by Paul Williams.
Noincidents were reported under the The Companys policies including those policy in 2015. onthe Bribery Act, Health and Safety, The Group has reviewed the requirements EqualOpportunities, Harassment and The risk has increased marginally due to the of the Modern Slavery Act and revised its Whistleblowing are available to all staff increased scale of the Groups development policies where appropriate in preparation ontheCompany intranet.
activity and the associated increase in Health for reporting in compliance with the and Safety risks.
Members of staff attend external legislation next year.
briengs inorder to remain cognizant CDM 2015 regulations have been of regulatory changes.
Contractor sub-contractor default Whenever possible the Group uses As the size of the Groups projects has Returns from the Groups developments are contractors sub-contractors that it has increased so the contractors have reduced due to delays and cost increases worked with successfully previously.
caused by either a main contractor or major The resilience of a projects critical path The financial accounts of both main sub-contractor defaulting during the project.
isincreased by establishing procedures contractors and major sub-contractors tomanage any sub-contractor default arereviewed.
This would primarily affect the Groups total effectively.
Key construction packages are acquired The risk would affect the Groups delivery early in the project.
of one of its strategic objectives.
Performance bonds are sought if considerednecessary.
It is considered to have increased over the year as the construction industry has become more stretched.
76 Strategic report Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 9.
Shortage of key staff The Nominations Committee consider The Group recruited 15 new members The Group is unable to successfully implement succession matters as a standing ofstaff during 2015. its strategy due to a failure to recruit and retain agendaitem.
Staff turnover during 2015 was low at 10%.
key staff with appropriate skills.
Requirements for senior management The average length of employment is succession are considered as part of the This risk could impact on any or all of the 7.7years.
The remuneration packages of all employees It would reduce the Groups ability to deliver are benchmarked regularly.
all of its strategic objectives.
Six-monthly appraisals identify training requirements which are fullled over the nextsix months.
The risk is seen to be unchanged over the year.
Link to business model Key Acquire properties and unlock their value Risk increase Create well-designed space Risk unchanged Optimise income Risk decrease Recycle capital Maintain strong and exible nancing Viability statement The five year strategic review considers the Groups cash In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 Code, ows, dividend cover, REIT compliance and other key the Directors have assessed the prospect of the Company financial ratios over the period.
These metrics are subject over a longer period than the 12 months required by the to sensitivity analysis which involves exing a number of the Going Concern provision see page 92.
The Board main assumptions underlying the forecast both individually conducted this review for a period of five years, which and in unison.
Where appropriate, this analysis is carried out wasselected for the following reasons: to evaluate the potential impact if those of the Groups principal risks that most directly affect its solvency or liquidity actually i The Groups strategic review covers a five year period.
The Board also reviewed certain assumptions in the ii For a major scheme five years is a reasonable five year review concerning the normal level of capital recycling approximation of the maximum time taken from likely to occur and, in the light of recent renancing activity obtaining planning permission to letting the property.
which extended the duration and quantum of the Groups loans, considered whether additional nancing facilities could iii Most leases contain a five year rent review pattern be required.
and therefore five years allows for the forecasts to include the reversion arising from those reviews.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five year period of their review.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 77 1-2 Stephen Street W1 2 G OVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SENIORMANAGEMENT 80 DIRECTORS REPORT 86 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 95 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 113 RISK COMMITTEE 114 AUDIT COMMITTEE 115 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 118 At Derwent London, we have always appreciated the importance of setting the tone from the top and have strived to promote a collegiate, honest and open culture throughout the business.
9.5% 23.0% Dividend per Total return share growth 79
