Principal risks and uncertainties The Board recognises that risk management is essential for the Group to achieve its objectives.
Senior management, staff and the Board regularly consider and minimising these risks where possible.
The current key the significant risks, which it believes the Group is facing, risks identified by the Board, the steps taken to mitigate identify appropriate controls, set parameters under which them and additional commentary are presented below.
management can operate and if necessary instigate action The Board views all risks to be consistent with the prior to improve those controls.
year with the exception of the risks related to one or more countries exiting the Eurozone or European Union, which There will always be some risk when undertaking property the Board considers to have increased during the year.
investments and the control process is aimed at mitigating Principal risk Cause Impact Probability Risk management One or more High Low In response to this risk the Groups borrowings Foreign currency countries exiting in Europe are in euro denominated loan facilities exchange risk the Eurozone or and therefore, to the extent that investments are European Union financed by debt, a self-hedging mechanism is Reduction in euro in place.
In relation to the equity element of the denominated Currency Groups euro investments, the Board monitors the revenue and assets devaluation level of exposure on a regular basis and considers the level and timing of when to take out the Impairment of appropriate hedging instruments in respect of this financial and nonexposure.
There is also a risk that one or more of financial assets the countries that the Group operates in could leave the euro, which may affect the nature of the Groups loans and derivatives or introduce new volatility and currency exposures for the Group to manage.
Management are closely monitoring the Eurozone and European Union situation and their findings are regularly reviewed by the Board.
Over paying for High Low Supply and demand are reviewed continuously Poor return on an acquisition through direct information from Hansteens investment and network of managing agents and managers.
Prices driven up deterioration in Experienced management review each acquisition by increased operating results and due diligence is carried out by external parties.
competition The Board is required to approve all acquisitions and disposals over a prescribed amount.
Reduced number of investment opportunities 20 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Principal risk Cause Impact Probability Risk management Over reliance High Medium Whilst there is always a risk that recession or Tenant failure on income from new legislation may affect specific industry Recession and one particular types, the Board is satisfied that Hansteens type of tenant exposure is mitigated by operating in five different reduced exposing the countries including some of the stronger Eurozone profitability Group to industry economies.
Vacancy rates, arrears and bad debts specific periods of are monitored on a monthly basis by country, with recession trends investigated to determine any systematic problems with a portfolio or type of tenant.
Banks under High High The Board acknowledges that there may Lack of availability internal pressure be occasions when banks are under internal of capital to improve pressures which may conflict with existing liquidity financing arrangements and it may prove more difficult to secure the more challenging properties.
Banks Detailed due diligence is carried out prior to the considering purchase of each property.
Regular meetings are unutilised loans held with a portfolio of banks to keep them fully too expensive apprised of commercial opportunities and alerted to any potential issues early on.
Hansteen is also considering alternative sources of finance to develop its strategy and reduce exposure.
Financial Medium Medium The Board believes such risks are reduced by Banking difficulties at adherence to a Cash and Liquidity Management counterparty institutions Policy that sets out how funds can be invested.
disruption holding significant Cash balances and borrowings are maintained with deposits a portfolio of considered counterparties.
The Group Lack of liquidity Treasurer reviews the cash balances on a daily basis, and where possible, surplus cash is put on interest bearing deposit.
High dependence High Medium The Board believes such risk is to some extent Over reliance on on Joint Chief mitigated through the support of high calibre key executives Executives employees and professional advisers.
All such appointments are approved by a member of the Board and performance is monitored regularly.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21
