I N T E R N S A L R L A P E P C E I D O O T I P A L L L O E I E P C L I R E S R O I Y I S & G N K O T E M L R S O A A N I N N A H I G C N E E T M G E N Y T T E E F C A O S N & O H M T I L C A E H 034 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 Current assessment of principal risks Diagram 13 OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS Impact High Medium Low We identify and monitor the full Increase from last year Decrease from last year range of financial and non-financial risks facing the business.
By regularly 13 Current principal risk areas 1 Customers reviewing the risk appetite of the 2 Market cyclicality 3 Acquisitions business, the Board ensures that 8 4 Liability structure 12 5 Development our risk exposure is well matched to 10 6 People 11 7 Environment 7 the cycle.
Overall responsibility for HIGH LIKELIHOOD LOW 8 Health & safety the risk management framework 1 6 16 Emerging risks rests with the Board, but the 5 29 Increased financial regulation management of risk is embedded 15 4 10 Political uncertainty 3 14 11 Resilience of portfolio to in our everyday business activities climate change 12 Energy regulation, cost and and culture, with all our employees security of supply 13 Cyber-terrorism having an important role to play.
14 Pandemic disease 15 Organised crime 16 Demographic changes 9 For us, a risk is anything that might stop us from meeting our objectives.
Importantly, the Board perceives risk not only as having a potential negative influence on the business but also as an opportunity that can be a source of financial outperformance, particularly where we have expertise to take and manage risks others cannot.
We also consider significant risks that may affect our customers, communities and partners.
We assess each risk on Risk management process Diagram 14 three factors: likelihood: financial impact, both to income and capital values: and reputational impact, from the local level through to national.
We also consider the inherent risk the impact of the risk 1st line of defence before any mitigating action is taken and the 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence residual risk the risk that remains after the effect of mitigating action is taken into account.
Alongside our assessment of current risks, we also consider emerging risks risks where we dont yet fully understand the extent and implications for us.
Identify Diagram 13 shows our current principal risks and the emerging risks we are monitoring.
We never stop looking out for new risks and Report risks Assess & thinking about existing risks from new angles.
That & mitigation quantify to the board process involves discussions with stakeholders as We contextualise risk in terms of our well as open discussion and challenge within the goals & objectives company.
Our Executive committees carry out a review of our risks four times a year and from this, together with feedback from external advisers, we Re-assess risk Develop action post mitigtation plans to mitigate update our register of principal risks and emerging risks.
These are presented to the Audit Committee quarterly to ensure members know about, and contribute to, the latest thinking on risk within the company.
In addition, the full Board holds a full risk review session every two years.
T N E E M I E F I N T N N T T O Y A I E R G T F N M R I I I O D V N C L N M I U A O N A N A A N E O L C D L L H A I E R C A C C U N A C E N D T O T O E I E R O T B N R V E C T I N T N O T X R A T E M L U O R M A L C I O U T E T D L E X I S E T E Y T N T E E S M F O A N C I S O A R L & I V N H E L T L E A G E A H L Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our principal risks Land Securities Annual Report 2015 035 Risks in the context of our strategic goal and objectives Table 15 Change from last year As set out on pages 2425, we have set ourselves clear strategic objectives against which we measure our performance: 1 Deliver sustainable long-term shareholder returns.
Increased 2 Maximise the returns from the investment portfolio.
No change 3 Manage our balance sheet effectively.
5 Ensure high levels of customer satisfaction.
6 Attract, develop, retain and motivate high performance employees.
In the same way that we measure our performance against these objectives, we also consider our risks and their potential impact on these objectives as well as our approach to mitigating those risks.
We have set out our principal risks below and grouped them together under the strategic objectives most likely to be impacted.
Maximise the returns from the investment portfolio Risk description Impact Mitigation Change from 2013 14 Customers Shift in customer demand Large and diversified customer base no single customer represents more than Concerns over the with consequent impact 5% of rents : economic recovery on new lettings, renewal Of our income 72% is derived from occupiers who make less than a 1% of existing leases and Pressure on consumer contribution to rent roll: rental growth spending.
Consistent demand for the best retail properties in terms of experience and or Retailers unable to meet convenience: existing rental Active development programme to maintain a modern office portfolio well commitments.
suited to occupier requirements: Experienced asset management team: Strong relationships with occupiers.
Market cyclicality Reduces liquidity and Large multi-asset portfolio: Volatility and speed impacts relative property Monitor asset concentration our largest asset is only 6% of the total portfolio : of change of asset performance.
Average investment property lot size of 96.8m: valuations and market Generally favour full control and ownership of assets 10% of assets currently in conditions.
joint ventures : Average unexpired lease term of 8.5 years with a maximum of 11% of gross rental income expiring or subject to break clauses in any single year.
Acquisitions Reduction in revenue profits Experienced investment team: Inability to acquire Reduction in potential future Flexibility to invest in either of the two largest sectors in the UK property market: Acquisition of new assets to replace development sites.
Ability to control the level of property disposals.
properties that have been sold.
Manage our balance sheet effectively Liability structure Increased cost of borrowing 1,255m revolving credit facility in place, which matures in 2020 and a total Lack of availability of of 985m of bilateral facilities which mature between September 2016 and Limits ability to refinance The Group refinanced bank funding.
September 2018: existing debt maturities its main revolving and fund forward cash Access to different sources of finance with most of our funding on a long-term credit facility for five requirements.
basis and with a spread of maturity dates.
The weighted average life of our debt years at a significantly at 31 March 2015 is 8.3 years: lower cost.
Modest gearing Security Group LTV at 31 March 2015 of 31.5%.
Liability structure is Bank debt not able to be The Groups Asset and Liability Committee meets three times a year to monitor unable to adapt to drawn both sides of the balance sheet and recommend strategy to the Board: changing asset Unable to raise new debt or Continuous review of level of drawn bank debt to ensure flexibility maintained: strategy or property no flexible debt to repay Our principal debt funding structure benefits from financial default only being values.
Potentially constrains triggered at 1 times Security Group ICR currently 4.1 times or 100% Security business decisions.
Group LTV currently 31.5% : Aim to align length of bank facilities with our view on property cycle: The existing revolving credit facility provides flexibility as it allows debt to be drawn in certain circumstances even when the Security Group LTV exceeds 65%.
036 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 Maximise development performance Risk description Impact Mitigation Change from 2013 14 Development Negative valuation Amount of speculative development restricted so that the impact of failing to Occupiers reluctant movements lease the un-let element of our development programme does not exceed the Refer to the table on to enter into Groups retained earnings: Reduction in income our development commitments to Proportion of capital employed in development programme based on total programme on take new space in costs to completion will not exceed 20% of our total capital employed, save page 151. our developments.
that where a material part of the development programme is pre-let, this proportion can rise to 25%: Monitor market cycle and likely occupier demand before committing to new developments and secure pre-lets where appropriate: Assessment of developments against hurdle rates.
Delay to development Under Design and Build contracts the risk of subcontractor failure resides increasing costs.
primarily with the principal contractor: Subcontractors under Principal contractors are responsible for monitoring ongoing viability of increasing pressure as a subcontractors: consequence of buying Experienced development and project management teams ensuring delivery at the bottom of the of developments to programme.
market, but having to pay current labour and material rates.
Attract, develop, retain and motivate high performance employees People Lack the skills necessary Competitive remuneration plans: Inability to attract, to deliver the business Appropriate mix of insourcing and outsourcing: retain and develop objectives.
Clear employee objectives and development plans: the right people.
Clear organisation and individual accountabilities: Annual employee engagement survey to identify issues early: Succession planning and talent management: High profile, cutting edge developments and assets to manage.
Continually improve sustainability performance Environment Increased cost base Dedicated specialist personnel: Properties do Inability to attract or retain ISO 14001 certified environmental management system: not comply with occupiers Active involvement in legislative working parties: legislation or Premature obsolescence Active environmental programme addressing key areas of energy, water meet customer and loss of asset value.
Health and safety Criminal civil proceedings CEO chairs Group Health & Safety Committee: Accidents causing and resultant reputational Regular Board reporting: injury to employees, damage Dedicated specialist personnel: contractors, occupiers Delays to building projects Annual cycle of health and safety audits: and visitors to our and can restrict access to Established policy and procedures including ISO 18001 certification.
Terrorist incident at Loss of consumer Strong relationship with the National Counter Terrorism Security Office: a property confidence with consequent Dedicated property security teams supported by CCTV and other physical Terrorist groups have impact on new lettings, security measures: recently called for renewal of existing leases Experienced property management teams: attacks on UK and rental growth shopping areas.
Regular on-site and national training: Loss of income.
Intelligence services Group insurance programme protects against losses of rent and service charge consider an attack due to terrorism.
This Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Robert Noel Chief Executive S St tr ra at te eg gic ic re rep po or rt t Go Gov ver ern nan anc ce e F Fi in na an nc cia ial l s st ta at te em me ent nts s A Ad dd di itio tion na al l in inf fo or rm ma atio tion n Governance L La an nd d S Se ec cu ur ri it ti ie es s A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 15 5 0 03 37 7 Governance Including information on our Board, its Committees and our high governance GOVERNANCE standards.
038 Letter from the Chairman 040 Board of Directors 042 Executive Committee 043 Leadership 046 Letter from the Chairman of the Nominations Committee 047 Effectiveness LEADERSHIP 049 Letter from the Chairman of How the Board and its Committees lead the Audit Committee 050 Accountability from the front.
054 Governance in action For more information go to: 057 Relations with shareholders pages 4045 058 Directors Remuneration Report 079 Report of the Directors EFFECTIVENESS How this years Board evaluation was conducted and its outcome.
For more information go to: pages 4648 ACCOUNTABILITY How the Audit Committee fulfils its oversight responsibilities.
For more information go to: pages 4953 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS How we maintain relations with our investors.
For more information go to: page 57 REMUNERATION How we align Executive pay with our performance and the interests of shareholders.
For more information go to: pages 5878
