Strategic report Risk management The strategic priorities for the business The Executive Committee is responsible and proposed changes, the Board are the delivery of sustainable, low risk, for the identification of risks and has introduced a standing agenda progressive earnings and long term the design, implementation and item to evidence the more formal capital growth.
maintenance of the systems of internal considerations of the principal risks controls.
The Executive Committee is and uncertainties facing the business The Groups approach to risk assisted by senior management in this and those which may manifest in the management is to identify those issues process.
The business operates from future, together with actions being which might prevent the attainment one office and has short reporting lines taken to mitigate them on an ongoing of our priorities and to take action to ensuring the Executive Committees basis.
Effective risk management has reduce or remove the likelihood of close involvement in day to day however always been embedded such issues having a material impact.
matters enabling early identification within the culture of the business and Our appetite for risk is low where it and mitigation of risks.
prejudices the achievement of our The Company has a detailed risk The matrix below illustrates the strategic priorities.
register which specifies risks, the impact assessment of the impact and The Board has delegated of each risk, the likelihood of that risk likelihood of our material risks taking responsibility for the assurance of occurring and the strength of the into account the risk measures the risk management process and mitigating controls in place and how currently applied.
the review of mitigating controls to these are evidenced.
The updated The risks identified are broadly the the Audit Committee.
A key part risk register was last presented to the same as those reported last year.
of the risk management process is Audit Committee and Board in March The rationale for perceived increases the assessment of the impact and 2015 and has been reviewed at least or decreases in the risks identified likelihood of risks occurring so that annually in previous years.
Recently in arecontained within the commentary appropriate mitigation plans can be response to the 2014 update of the for each risk category.
UK Corporate Governance Code Perceived likelihood of occurrence after mitigation Rare Low Medium High The Board consider this risk has increased since last year The Board consider this risk has reduced since last year The Board consider this risk has remained broadly unchanged from last year 10 12 8 2 11 9 5 7 3 6 4 1 Risk Management and Internal Control see Audit Committee report on page 73 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 43 Potential impact Not Extreme High Medium Low significant Risk management continued The principal risks and uncertainties that follow are those risks identified as having the potential to cause material harm to the business and its ability to meet its strategic objectives.
Strategy and market risk Key risk factor and impact How is it managed?
Commentary The Board review and update strategy and The Group continued to reposition its portfolio 1 objectives on a regular basis, adapting during the year, with 90% now in the core to changes in economic conditions and sectors of retailer-led distribution and out of Portfolio strategy opportunities as they arise.
This repositioning together with the implementation of asset The Executive Directors are closely involved The Company has an management initiatives built on strong in the day to day management of the inappropriate strategy relationships with retailers have enabled the Company which operates from one office forthe current stage of Company to perform well against its key location and has a flat organisational theproperty cycle and performance indicators.
WAULT and EPRA structure making it easier to identify market the economic climate.
vacancy rates are amongst the highest and changes.
Impact: lowest respectively in the industry.
Management have an entrepreneurial Suboptimal returns In March 2015 the Board held an off approach and extensive experience in real forshareholders site Strategy Away Day to consider the estate, particularly the retail sector.
development of the Groups long term strategy Research is commissioned into economic and business model.
and occupational markets to assist in A new Finance Committee headed by the strategic decisions.
Finance Director was formed during the year Financial forecasts are updated in light of to enhance the provision of information to the strategic changes and reported to the Board Executive Committee and Board.
The Group has a rolling three-year forecast.
Management have a significant shareholding in the Company, amongst the highest in the industry, clearly aligning their interests with other shareholders.
The Companys staffing plan is focused on experience and the expertise necessary todeliver itsstrategy.
External factors such as macro-economic The UK property market has performed well 2 conditions and political risks are outside of over the last year, driven by strong investment the Groups control, however the Group interest and an improving economy.
Economic and only invests in the UK, minimising exposure The Board considers that this risk has reduced toweaker economies.
political outlook due to the strengthening economic outlook The Company has a diversified portfolio and political stability post the UK election.
which has been reshaped to take into Impact: account changes in longer term retailing Poorer than expected trends.
The Company does not invest in performance sectors which tend to be hit hardest during periods of economic downturn.
Research is commissioned and evaluated toinfluence strategic decision making.
Market review Core portfolio repositioning see Keygrowth drivers see Investment review onpage 16 onpage 26 Key performance indicators see page 24 LondonMetric Property Plc 44 Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Property and transactional risk Key risk factor and impact How is it managed?
Commentary The extensive experience of management The Company transacted on 598 million 3 and their strong network of connections of property, with a number of significant off provide insight into the property market market acquisitions.
The Companys strategic focus has opportunities Managements relationship with retailers and shifted away from income to a total return its ability to develop and forward fund assets model supported by low risk, short-cycle The Company is unable is an important factor in generating deal flow development.
to source investment given the current difficulties in finding value The Board considers that the risk of identifying opportunities.
in income generating assets due to yield appropriately priced investment opportunities Impact: compression within the market.
has increased given investor appetite in the Ability to implement market and continued yield compression.
strategy by recycling There is a conditional development pipeline of capital into value and 1.1 million sq ft in Bedford, Leicester and Stoke.
earnings accretive investments at risk The property cycle is continually monitored The valuation uplift in the year of 118.4 million 4 with investment and divestment decisions was a consequence of yield compression being made strategically in anticipation in a strong investment market and value Valuation risk ofchanging market conditions.
enhancing asset management initiatives and short cycle development activity.
The property portfolio performance There is no certainty that We have been working to assess and reduce is regularly reviewed and assets are property values will be our exposure to Minimum Energy Efficiency benchmarked on an individual basis.
This risk is inherent Standards MEES and now have less than 3% to the property industry.
Focus on sustainable income, let to high ERV from assets with F and G rated EPCs.
quality tenants within a diversified portfolio of Impact: well located assets with increased weighted NAV growth pressure and average lease lengths reduces the risk of pressure onloan covenants negative movements in a downturn.
Acquisitions which have opportunities to enhance value by undertaking asset management initiatives and playing to the strengths of the asset management team and their tenant relationships are favoured as well as assets which are considered to bemis-priced.
Acquisitions are thoroughly evaluated by Yield arbitrage of c. 100 bps between 5 undertaking a detailed financial, legal acquisitions and disposals evidencing and operational appraisal prior to Board appropriate investment and divestment Investment approval.
undergo cost-benefit analysis prior to underperformance implementation.
Investments may otherwise External advisors are used to help ensure not meet their financial appropriate pricing of lease transactions.
Impact: Pressure on NAV and earnings and potentially loancovenants Investment transactions Asset management transactions Development summary see Investment review page 26 see Asset Management review and pipeline page 32 see page 34 Newark distribution centre case Valuation drivers study, an off market acquisition see Asset Management review see page 27 page 32 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 45 Risk management continued Property and transactional risk continued Key risk factor and impact How is it managed?
Commentary The Company only considers short-cycle 90% of the development which the Company 6 and relatively derisked or forward funded is currently undertaking has pre-lets in place.
development although management have The Company has employed additional staff Development significant experience of more complex with development and project management development.
returns expertise during the year given the increased Exposure to developments and phasing of development focus.
Development projects projects is considered as part of the quarterly Committed developments total 2.0 million sq ft fail to deliver expected financial forecasting process for the Board.
returns due to inconsistent Standardised appraisals and cost budgets timing with the economic In the year we forward funded the acquisition are prepared for developments with regular cycle and adverse letting of a distribution warehouse in Warrington monitoring of expenditure against budget to conditions or increased pre-let to The Hut Group.
highlight potential overruns at an early stage.
costs, planning or We are on track to complete in September our construction delays.
The procurement process includes tendering 1.1 million sq ft distribution development in Islip, and the use of highly regarded firms Impact: Northamptonshire, pre-let to Primark.
with track records ofdelivery to minimise Poorer than expected uncertainty over costs.
performance Developments are only undertaken where high occupier demand and significant pre-lets are secured before development work commences to fide-risk projects.
Wherepossible, development sites are acquired with planning in place.
The Group ensures it has sufficient funds in The Company has taken advantage of an 7 place to take advantage of investment improved debt market to refinance its Helaba opportunities by selling assets which have loan extending the term to seven years with Funding risk achieved target returns and monitoring its improved flexibility and pricing.
Post year end cash flow closely.
the Company refinanced all Group debt, with The Company is unable the exception of joint venture arrangements The Group nurtures its relationships with a to fund investment and the Helaba loan, with an unsecured diversified range of banks and alternative opportunities.
revolving credit facility of 400 million which lenders and regularly reviews its loan Impact: can be increased by a further 100 million.
The availability of debt on cost Thisfacility provides greater operational Implementation of effective terms is considered as part of flexibility and alignment with the Groups strategyat risk the analysis foreach acquisition and realestate strategy.
The Company extended its MIPP joint venture The Company has joint venture loan with Deutsche Pfandbrief by two arrangements with well funded partners years and 50 million and increased its joint particularly for larger acquisitions.
The MIPP joint venture arrangements with partner USS were extended by two years and 100 million.
The Company has also extended its joint venture funding arrangements with its Middle Eastern partner, Green Park Investments, which were due to expire, by a further two years.
Disposals totalled 288.7 million in the year demonstrating our ability to recycle capital outof non-core and mature investments.
The Board considers the continued improvement in the debt market and the new unsecured revolving credit facility have decreased this risk from last year.
Recycling capital Short-cycle development Debt refinancing see Investment review page 26 see page 34 see Financial review page 42 Islip mega-shed case study Warrington acquisition see page 35 see page 28 LondonMetric Property Plc 46 Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Financial risks Key risk factor and impact How is it managed?
Commentary The Group uses interest rate derivatives to fix At 31 March 2015 the Group had 451 million 8 or cap its exposure to adverse interest rate of hedges in place covering 80% of total movements.
Hedging recommendations debt including its share of joint venture Interest rates arereceived from J C Rathbones Associates, arrangements.
Impact: Increased financing costs on debt, reduced profitability and increased risk of a loan covenant breach Headroom in loan covenants is actively The Group has complied with its financial 9 monitored and incorporated into the Groups covenants during the year.
Non financial covenants Increased diversification and scale under the Loan covenants are also closely monitored.
new unsecured revolving credit facility should insulate the credit covenant of the Group from Gearing levels are carefully considered A breach of loan one-off shocks from any single property.
and stress tested before entering into new covenant could result arrangements.
The Group maintains a from a substantial decline The Board considers that the refinancing of modest level of gearing.
in property values, a debt undertaken, including the unsecured material loss of rental The impact of disposals on loan facilities revolving credit facility, has decreased this risk income or increased covering multiple assets are also considered from last year.
as part of the strategic decision making process.
Impact: The Groups loan facilities incorporate Potential default and covenant headroom, appropriate cure acceleration of loan.
provisions and sufficient flexibility to Ability to raise new implement asset management initiatives.
finance affected Operational risks Key risk factor and impact How is it managed?
Commentary Tenant covenant strength and The Group has a very low level of tenant 10 concentration are assessed for all default and high occupancy levels of 99.7% acquisitions and leasing transactions.
Tenant default The Groups dedicated and experienced The tenant base has been further diversified property management team work closely during the year and the covenant strength Tenant default and failure with tenants and consider action for slow of the top tenants has increased.
The Board considers that improvements Impact: Rent collection is closely monitored and in the economy and the increased Loss of recurring net reported to the asset management team diversification in the portfolio have income and dividend to identify potential issues.
Pressure on loan The Group has a diversified tenant covenants base and limited exposure to individual occupiers in bespoke properties.
Hedging New unsecured debt see Financial review page 42 see Financial review page 42 Top tenants Loan to Value see Supplementary information see Financial review page 42 page 129 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 47 Risk management continued Operational risks continued Key risk factor and impact How is it managed?
Commentary The remuneration structure for all staff is Consideration will be given to the position 11 aligned to the long-term key performance of Chairman, given the Chairmans current targets of the business with long-term share contract expires 31 March 2016.
Staffing based incentive arrangements inplace.
Two new Directors appointed internally Senior management has a substantial tothe Board in the year.
An inability to attract, investment in the Company.
motivate and retain high calibre skilled staff.
Annual appraisals identify training requirements and assess performance.
Impact: Specialist agencies are contracted Pressure on the delivery of whereappropriate if there are perceived the Companys strategy.
The Group is advised by external specialist Of the 26 targets we set ourselves over the 12 advisors on sustainability and responsible two-year period to March 2016, 13 have business matters and has established a been achieved, 7 are currently in progress Regulatory Responsible Business Strategy to manage and 6 are scheduled for next year.
This year we saw a 37% reduction in total Increased regulations The Group is given specialist taxaxion energy consumption across our portfolio.
associated with planning, advice on its transactions, REIT compliance environmental, health and reporting.
and safety and tax amongst others.
Impact: Increased costs, impact on re-letting potential of an asset, damage to corporate reputation andinvestor demand inthe Company Responsible business see page 49 EPRA vacancy rate see Supplementary information page 129 Top 10 occupiers see Supplementary information page 129 LondonMetric Property Plc 48 Annual report and accounts 2015
