Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Principal Risks Effective risk management is central to our long-term success In line with our income focus, we have a low Risk appetite The Group recognises that its appetite for risks to income from customers, and We have put risk appetite at the heart of our risk ability to manage risk effectively accordingly seek a diverse occupier base with management processes.
Risk appetite is integral throughout the organisation strong covenants and avoid over-exposure to both to our consideration of strategy and to our individual occupiers in specialist properties.
is central to its success.
Risk appetite also defines the criteria for assessing the potential Risk management ensures a Financial risk impact of risks and our mitigation of them.
structured approach to decision The Group maintains a low to moderate The Groups risk appetite is reviewed annually making that aims to reduce the appetite for financial risk in general, with a very and approved by the Board in order to guide low appetite for risks to solvency and gearing uncertainty surrounding expected management.
As well as qualitative descriptions, covenant breaches.
outcomes, balanced against the the risk appetite defines tolerances and targets for key metrics.
It is equally applicable to wholly As an income-focused REIT we have a objective of creating value for owned operations and joint ventures.
low appetite for risks to maintaining stable our shareholders.
progression in earnings and dividends over the While our appetite for risk will vary over time long term.
We are, however, prepared to tolerate and during the course of the property cycle, in fluctuations in dividend cover as a consequence general the Group maintains a fairly low appetite of capital recycling activity.
for risk, appropriate to our strategic objectives of delivering a sustainable progressive dividend We also seek long-term growth in net asset stream, supported by long-term growth in net value per share.
Our appetite for risks to net asset value per share.
asset value from the factors within our control is low, albeit acknowledging that our appetite for moderate leverage across the cycle amplifies Property risk the impact of asset valuation movements on We recognise that, in seeking outperformance netasset value.
from our portfolio, the Group must accept a balanced level of property risk with diversity Corporate risk in geographic locations and asset types and an appropriate mixture of stabilised incomeWe have a very low appetite for risks to producing and opportunity assets in order our good reputation and risks to being toprovide opportunities for superior returns.
well-regarded by our investors, regulators, employees, customers, business partners, Our target portfolio should deliver attractive, low suppliers, lenders and by the wider communities risk income returns with strong rental and capital and environments in which we operate.
growth when market conditions are positive and show relative resilience in a downturn.
We aim Our responsibilities to these stakeholders include to enhance these returns through development, compliance with all relevant laws: accurate but we seek both to ensure that the drag and timely reporting of financial and other associated with holding development land does regulatory information: safeguarding the health not outweigh the potential benefits and also and safety of employees, suppliers, customers to mitigate the risks including letting and and other users of our assets: safeguarding construction risks inherent in development.
the environment: compliance with codes of conduct and ethics: ensuring business continuity: and making a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate.
62 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk management Board Chief Executive Risk Executive risk Oversees the Groups management owner risk management and function internal controls.
Responsible for Risk manager Determines the risk management.
Assigns responsibility Owns risk in domain.
for risks to senior Assigns accountability Manages the process.
for risks to senior Responsible for Manages reports risk managers.
ensuring the risk is risk register.
Ensures that risks are within appetite.
Provides assistance identified, assessed and Regularly reviews and in assessing and adequately controlled.
assesses existing risks documenting risks with risk management.
Drives design and Provides quality assurance implementation and challenge to risk of controls.
Audit Executive Monitoring Committee Committee committees Group Risk Committee Monitors effectiveness Monitors strategic and Regularly identify, assign of the Groups risk other risks.
accountability for, and Establishes, monitors management and internal monitor the significant Delegates accountability and reports on the control systems.
risks and corresponding for risk management and Groups approach to controls within monitors performance.
Oversees the work of the Report status to risk risk management function.
Challenges individual risk owners and managers.
Executive risk owner Monitoring committee Risk manager Risk management function Strategic Chief Executive Executive As assigned by executive Provides information, assists in riskowner documentation and provides quality Financial Group Finance Director Finance assurance to risk managers, executive risk owners and committees.
Operational Chief Operating Officer Operations Others as appropriate Business Information Systems Executive Investment Chief Investment Officer Executive Investment Compliance As appropriate As appropriate 63 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Principal Risks Effective risk management is central to our long-term success continued Communication across a relatively small Risk Register.
The link between significant risks An integrated approach to managing risk management team, and regular consideration and control assurance has continued to be a The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring of risk at key management committees, allows focus during 2015. that risk is effectively managed across the Group.
management to respond quickly to changing The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness The Group has a Risk Management Committee events so as to reduce adverse effects on the of the Groups risk management process on responsible for regularly reviewing the Group Groups risk profile.
Further information on Risk Register, monitoring the most important compliance with the risk management provisions Risks are assessed in both unmitigated controls and prioritising risk management of the UK Corporate Governance Code assuming that no controls are in place and activities.
The Groups approach to risk can befound in the Governance section on residual with mitigating controls operating management is documented and formalised pages71112.
This assessment directly relates in a policy, reviewed annually by the Executive potential impact to risk appetite so that it is clear Committee.
The Executive Committee considers The risk management process is designed to whether each risk is comfortably within appetite, emerging risks and their impact on the Group identify, evaluate and mitigate the significant tolerable, intolerable or below appetite.
In 2015 Risk Register formally four times per year.
risks that the Group faces.
The process aims to we have begun to formally assess the velocity of understand and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the most significant risks to better understand A robust assessment the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, how quickly they might cause an intolerable and therefore can only provide reasonable and In order to robustly assess the principal risks impact on us.
facing the Group, the Board has taken a number of measures.
The Board has formally In addition to reports detailing risks individually Accountabilities for the Groups risk reviewed the principal risks twice during the and in aggregate, in 2015 we introduced a key management are outlined in the diagram year.
The Board has also completed its annual risk indicator KRI dashboard which indicates onpage 63. review and approval of the Groups risk appetite.
actual performance against risk appetite metrics.
Furthermore, the Audit Committee receives Appetite towards risk is considered at Board Illustrations of some of the reports, including meetings whenever significant strategic, financial a report twice a year on how the Group Risk this dashboard, used by management are Register has been compiled.
The Groups Risk or operational decisions are made, and is a key shown below.
part of ongoing discussions about strategy.
Management process was the subject of an internal audit in 2015 and was assessed as Risk appetite is also formally reviewed by the The most significant risks and mitigating controls Board annually.
are detailed in the Group Risk Register.
The Board recognises that it has limited control Controls relevant to each risk are also over many of the external risks it faces, such as documented and monitored in the Group Risk the macro-economic environment, but it reviews Register.
The risks and controls in the Register the potential impact of such risks on the business are used to inform the Groups internal audit and actively considers them in its decisionassurance programme.
The Board also monitors internal risks assessment of control effectiveness is driven by and ensures that appropriate controls are in the risks and controls drawn from the Groups place to manage them.
Risks are considered within each area of the business to ensure that risk management is embedded within the Groups decision making processes and culture.
Each risk in the Group Risk Register is owned by a member of the Executive Committee who works with a senior manager who is responsible for the monitoring and mitigation of that risk to within appetite.
Each risk is reviewed regularly throughout the year at relevant management committees and each risk is also reviewed in depth with its risk manager and risk owner at least twice a year.
64 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In addition to the robust ongoing assessment Principal risks Viability statement and management of the risks facing the Group, The principal risks have the potential to affect The Groups principal risks, and its approach as already set out in this section, the Group SEGROs business materially either favourably to managing them, as described in this section, has stress-tested its five year strategic financial or unfavourably.
Risks are classified as principal have formed the basis of our assessment of plan.
This stress-test has considered the risks according to their potential to intolerably exceed longer term viability.
The process for conducting that could either singularly, or in combination, our appetite considering both inherent and this assessment is summarised in the Audit threaten the viability of the Group.
In particular residual impact and cause material harm to Committees report on page 90. we have considered the potential impacts of: the Group.
The Directors confirm that they have a A systemic crisis, such as a major dislocation Some risks that may be unknown at present, as reasonable expectation that the Group will be or failure of capital markets or a failure of the well as other risks that are currently regarded as able to continue in operation and has adequate insurance market: immaterial and therefore not detailed here, could resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due turn out to be material in the future.
An acute deterioration in occupier or property investment market conditions: The current principal risks facing the Group The five year assessment period is the same are described across the following pages, time horizon as covered by the Groups Significant movements in interest rates and along with the potential areas of impact on the annual rolling five year strategic financial plan.
foreign exchange rates: Groups strategy and the principal activities This is considered to be the optimum balance A sustained interruption to the Groups that are in place to mitigate and manage such between our need to plan for the long term business continuity: and risks.
The direction of change in the level of asproperty investment is a long-term business the risk during the course of 2015, along with and the progressively unreliable nature of An inability to refinance maturing debt.
an assessment of whether the risk is within forecasting in later years, particularly given In stress testing we assessed the limits at which our appetite following the application of our the historically cyclical nature of the property key financial ratios and covenants would be mitigating controls, is indicated along with links industry.
Five years is also in a similar timeframe breached, causing a threat to the Groups to further relevant information provided in other to the Groups weighted average unexpired viability.
We then assessed the likelihood of that sections of this report.
lease term and to the average maturity of its limit being reached as a result of the individual debt portfolio.
In selecting this time period, the The principal risks that the Group reported last event or combination of events occurring, using Directors confirm that they have no reason to year have evolved in nature, as has the Groups a combination of historic data for example the regard five years as a cliff edge in terms of response to them.
No new additional risks have acute property valuation decline in 20072008 theGroups viability.
been classified as principal since 2014, and no and forward-looking probability analysis principal risks have been fide-classified since where available.
As a result of this stress testing, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next five years.
65 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Principal Risks Effective risk management is central to our long-term success continued Property risks Risks to achieving above average rental and capital growth from our portfolio, including external market and competitive conditions, portfolio strategy, and execution of acquisitions and disposals.
Impact on Change Residual risk Risk strategy in2015 Mitigations within appetite?
Further information Market cycle The Board, Executive Committee and The market outlook is detailed Investment Committee monitor the in the Chief Executives Review The property market is cyclical and property market cycle on a continual on page 31. there is a continuous risk that the Group basis and adapt the Groups investment could either misinterpret the market or divestment strategy in anticipation of fail to react appropriately to changing changing market conditions.
market conditions, which could result in capital being invested or disposals Independent diverse sources of taking place at the wrong price or time investment and occupier market in the cycle.
intelligence are regularly received andconsidered.
This is continuous risk with a moderate likelihood.
Upside and downside scenarios are incorporated into Investment Committee papers to assess the impact of differing market conditions.
Portfolio strategy The Groups portfolio strategy is Further information is contained subject to regular review by the Board in the Chief Executives review The Groups Total Property and or to consider the desired shape of the on pages 18 to 31.
Shareholder Returns could portfolio in order to meet the Groups underperform in absolute or relative overall objectives and to determine our terms as a result of an inappropriate response to changing opportunities and portfolio strategy.
This could result market conditions.
from: The Groups disciplined capital Holding the wrong balance of prime allocation is informed by comprehensive or secondary assets: asset plans and independent external Holding the wrong amounts or assessments of market conditions and types of land, leading to diluted forecasts.
returns and or constraints on development opportunities: Regular portfolio analysis ensures Holding the wrong level of higher the portfolio is correctly positioned in risk opportunity assets or too terms of location and asset type, and many old or obsolete assets which retains the right balance of core and dilute returns: opportunity assets.
The annual asset Holding assets in the wrong planning exercise provides a bottomgeographical markets: up assessment of the performance Missing opportunities in new and potential for all assets to identify markets or lacking critical mass underperforming assets that are inexisting markets.
Disciplined Operational Efficient capital and corporate Key capital allocation excellence structure Increased risk Similar risk Decreased risk 66 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Impact on Change Residual risk Risk strategy in2015 Mitigations within appetite?
Further information Execution of investment plans Asset plans are prepared annually for Further information is contained all estates to determine where to invest in the Chief Executives review Decisions to buy, hold, sell or capital in existing assets and to identify on pages 21 and 22. develop assets could be flawed due assets for disposal.
to uncertainty in analysis, quality of assumptions, poor due diligence or Locally-based property investment unexpected changes in the economic and operational teams provide market oroperating environment.
intelligence and networking to deliver attractive opportunities.
Our investment decisions could be insufficiently responsive to implement Policies are in place to govern our strategy effectively.
evaluation, due diligence, approval, execution and subsequent review of This is continuous risk with a moderate investment activity.
likelihood as changing investment and occupier market conditions require The Investment Committee meets constant adaptation.
frequently to review investment and disposal proposals and to consider appropriate capital allocation.
Investment hurdle rates are regularly reappraised taking into account estimates of our weighted average costof capital.
Major capital investment and disposal decisions are subject to Board approval.
Financial risks Risks to the revenues, costs, cash flows, equity capital and solvency of the Group resulting from the capital structure of the Group and changes in external factors such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and the creditworthiness of the Groups major financial counterparties.
Further information Solvency and covenant breach Future funding requirements and Significant headroom exists covenant headroom, including against all financial covenants.
A substantial fall in the Groups sensitivity to asset valuation declines, Property valuations would property asset values or rental income are closely monitored by the Group need to fall by around 41 per levels could lead to a breach of financial Treasury function, the Finance cent from their 31 December covenants within its debt funding Committee which reports to the 2015 values to reach the arrangements.
This could lead to a Groups Executive Committee and the gearing covenant threshold of cancellation of debt funding which Board.
could, in turn, leave the Group without levels and headroom with sensitivities to sufficient long-term resources solvency Further details of Treasury financial covenants on a quarterly basis to meet its commitments.
policy, funding headroom, and review non-financial covenants on financial covenant ratios This is a medium-term risk with a low an ongoing basis.
and related headroom and likelihood.
The Audit Committee reviews the sensitivities are provided Groups going concern status bi-annually.
in theFinancial Review on pages54 to 61.
In line with its Treasury policy, the Group maintains appropriate undrawn The Groups viability statement headroom under committed bank is on page 65. facilities which are generally refinanced well ahead of maturity.
67 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Principal Risks Effective risk management is central to our long-term success continued Financial risks continued Impact on Change Residual risk Risk strategy in2015 Mitigations within appetite?
Further information UK exit from the EU The Groups high quality portfolio of prime industrial assets is diverse in The increasing uncertainty associated terms of geography 28 per cent of with the outcome of the UKs EU GAV at share is in Continental Europe referendum may temporarily impact and sector exposure.
The Group is investment, capital and occupier neither directly exposed to the asset markets in the UK through delayed classes, nor significantly exposed to the decision making.
sectors, most likely to be most directly In the event of a UK vote to leave the impacted by a UK exit from the EU.
EU, property valuations, capital markets The Groups existing mitigations for and occupier demand in the UK could resilience through the market cycle also be impacted during the subsequent also provide mitigation against this risk.
transition period while the terms of exit As well as the underlying quality and and future relationships are negotiated.
diversity of the portfolio, these include In the long term, exit from the EU could maintaining substantial covenant reduce levels of occupier demand as headroom, access to diverse sources a result of reduced trade and or the of funding, and FX and interest rate relocation of corporations and financial hedging.
institutions away from the UK, and Short development lead times also London in particular.
enable the Group to respond quickly The likelihood of severe adverse impact tochanging market conditions.
on the Group, is judged to be low.
European economic environment We remain alert to the potential Germany represents 9 per cent, financial and operational risks to the France 8 per cent, Netherlands The risk of a significant adverse business arising from a deterioration in Belgium 3 per cent and Italy 2 impact to the Groups earnings, net economic conditions in the Eurozone, per cent of the Groups assets.
asset value, financial covenants or including a partial break-up.
Poland, which also involves investor confidence arising from the exposure to the Euro, represents exit of a significant economy from the We continue to maintain a high level of a further 6 per cent of the Eurozone or sustained poor economic currency translation hedging against the Groups assets.
impact of a weaker euro and to closely monitor our exposure to major tenants Treasury policies are outlined These are shortto medium-term risks in the Eurozone.
in the Financial Review on with a medium although somewhat page60.
Geographically, the portfolio is located predominantly in the relatively stronger European economies and regions.
Financial leverage The Group has targeted a mid-cycle Gearing is discussed in the look-through LTV ratio of around Financial Review on page 60.
The Group could maintain an 40per cent.
Gearing levels are also inappropriate capital structure.
Financial tracked and forecast internally to leverage usually expressed as the LTV monitor headroom against financial ratio, but in financial covenants defined covenants.
The LTV target is regularly as gearing needs to be managed considered in strategic planning and in depending on the direction of the asset recycling decisions.
economic and property market cycle.
If gearing is too high when property valuations are falling, net asset value movements can be exacerbated and financial covenants put at risk.
Equally, if gearing is too conservative, there is a risk that attractive growth opportunities could be missed and the benefits ofleverage not maximised.
This is a medium to long-term risk with a low likelihood.
Disciplined Operational Efficient capital and corporate Key capital allocation excellence structure Increased risk Similar risk Decreased risk 68 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Impact on Change Residual risk Risk strategy in2015 Mitigations within appetite?
Further information Interest rates In accordance with the Groups Treasury At 31 December 2015, fixed policy, fixed interest cover is maintained interest cover was 75 per cent A significant adverse movement between 50 per cent and 100 per cent of the net borrowings of the in interest rates could have an of net look-through debt in order to Group including the Groups unacceptable impact on the Groups balance the cost and certainty of interest share of borrowings within earnings, on investment market rates.
The position is formally reviewed jointventures.
conditions or on tenant covenant biannually by the Finance Committee.
Interest rate hedging is detailed in the Financial Review on This is a long-term risk with a moderate page 61. likelihood.
Counterparty default Counterparties are accepted based on Treasury policies are outlined a strict credit rating criteria.
Compliance in the Financial Review on A bank or other counterparty could with the policy is monitored daily by page 60. default while holding SEGRO deposits both front and back-office staff within or derivative assets, resulting in a Group Treasury.
significant financial loss to the Group.
This could also include the loss of solvency headroom from lost undrawn committed bank facilities.
This is considered to be a long-term risk with a low likelihood.
Corporate risks Risks to business performance, legal and regulatory compliance, health and safety, environmental impact, reputation and business continuity arising from external factors or inadequate internal processes, people or systems.
Further information Operational delivery and The Group maintains a strong focus on compliance Operational Excellence.
The Executive and Operations Committees regularly The Groups ability to protect its monitor the range of risks to operational reputation, revenues and shareholder delivery, compliance, business value could be damaged by operational continuity, organisational effectiveness failures such as: environmental damage: and customer management.
failing to attract, retain and motivate key staff: a breach of anti-bribery The Groups tax compliance is managed and corruption or other legislation: by an experienced internal tax team.
majorcustomer default or supply REIT and SIIC tax regime compliance chainfailure.
Compliance failures, such as breaches Compliance with joint venture of joint venture shareholders shareholder agreements is managed agreements, secured loan agreements by experienced property operations, or tax legislation could also damage finance and legal staff.
The SELP reputation, revenue and shareholder JV additionally has comprehensive value.
governance and compliance arrangements in place, including This is a continuous risk with a low dedicated management, operational likelihood of causing significant manuals, and specialist third-party harmtothe Group.
69 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Principal Risks Effective risk management is central to our long-term success continued Corporate risks continued Impact on Change Residual risk Risk strategy in2015 Mitigations within appetite?
Further information Health and safety The Group manages an active health Health and safety in our supply and safety management system, with chain is discussed on page 51.
Health and safety management a particular focus on managing the processes could fail, leading to a loss quality and compliance to good health of life, litigation, fines and serious and safety practice of construction and reputational damage to the Group.
This is a continuous risk with a low A published health and safety policy likelihood of causing significant harm is backed up by independent site to the Group.
Nevertheless, we note inspections and a programme of that this risk is somewhat increased by staffand contractor training.
the scale of the Groups development activity.
Regulatory environment Emerging risks in this category are reviewed regularly by the Executive The Group could fail to anticipate legal Committee, Finance Committee and or regulatory changes, leading to a Group Risk Management Committee.
significant un-forecasted financial or reputational impact.
Corporate heads of function consult with external advisers, attend industry In general, these are medium to and specialist briefings, and sit on key long-term risks with a low likelihood of industry bodies such as EPRA and BPF.
causing significant harm to the Group.
Some, such as the OECDs Base Erosion A number of potential risks were and Profit Shifting BEPS project, could identified, assessed and managed have an earlier impact.
during the course of the year.
None were considered to be material enough to be classified as principal risks.
Nevertheless, we continue to maintain a close interest in the BEPS project.
Our current assessment is that the direct impact on the Group is likely to be modest, but we will monitor the potential indirect impacts on the investment market and on valuations if BEPS affects more highly leveraged property investors.
Disciplined Operational Efficient capital and corporate Key capital allocation excellence structure Increased risk Similar risk Decreased risk 70 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our approach to governance Good governance is essential to support the delivery of our strategic priorities.
The Board, as custodian of the business, seeks to secure the long-term future of the Company.
We are responsible to our shareholders, customers and other stakeholders for the performance ofthe Company and for promoting its long-term success.
72 Chairmans Introduction 74 Board of Directors 78 Governance Report 85 Nomination Committee Report 87 Audit Committee Report 94 Remuneration Committee Report 110 Directors Report 112 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 71 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015
