SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 059 Risk management Management structure As a foundation to effective day-to-day risk management, we The Boards encourage an open and honest culture within which staff can operate.
Our management team, based in one office, within fifteen minutes walk of all our holdings, comprises four executive attitude to risk directors and 21 employees.
This stable management team, with an average tenure of over 15 years, has an in-depth knowledge of our business and the West End.
management The Boards attitude to risk is embedded in the business, with senior management having close involvement in all aspects of operations and significant decisions.
This involvement extends to is consistent the Non-Executive Directors, who approve all transactions over a specified level.
We hold regular portfolio tours for the Board, to instil a deep understanding of our business strategy and model.
with its low SEE PAGE 33 FOR OUR MANAGEMENT TEAMS EXPERIENCE The senior management team below Board level is incentivised in overall appetite the same way as executive directors to achieve the Groups strategic goals of delivering long-term outperformance.
Decisions are made for long-term benefit, rather than shortfor risk term gain.
Succession planning across the management team is monitored by the Board.
DETAILS OF OUR ANNUAL BONUS TARGETS AND LTIP PERFORMANCE CRITERIA ARE SET OUT IN THE ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT ON PAGES 94 TO 95 Responsibilities Board Overall responsibility for risk management.
Reviews principal risks and This report should be read in conjunction with the uncertainties regularly, along Viability Statement on page 66. with actions taken, where possible, to mitigate them.
Overview Audit Committee Assurance of the internal The Board structures the Groups operations to minimise exposure controls and risk management to investment, operational and financial risks, and to ensure that process.
there is a rigorous, regular review of risks and mitigation across its Executive management Day-to-day management of activities.
Design and implementation of the necessary systems of Important factors in the relative low risk of our business include: internal control.
The Group invests only in Londons West End, where there is a long history of resilience, stability and sustained occupier demand for our principal uses of retail, restaurants and leisure With a diverse tenant base, there is limited exposure to any single tenant The nature of our portfolio does not expose us to risks inherent in major speculative development schemes We have a small and stable management team, based in one location, close to all our holdings The Board manages our balance sheet on a conservative basis with moderate leverage, long-term finance, a spread of loan maturities, good interest cover and with the majority of interest costs fixed.
SEE PAGES 8 TO 31 FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY AND MODEL AND PAGE 34 FOR INFORMATION ON OUR APPROACH TO FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT 060 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Operational and financial risks facing the Group are monitored Risk management and internal control through a process of regular assessment by the executive team.
The Board is responsible for determining, and keeping under The aim of this assessment is to: review throughout the year, the nature and extent of the Provide reasonable assurance that material risks are identified principal risks impacting the Groups operations and maintaining Ensure appropriate mitigation action is taken at an early stage the risk management framework and internal control systems.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the Risks are considered in terms of their impact and likelihood from risks faced by the business and can provide only reasonable, not operational, financial and reputational perspectives.
Risks, and absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Their the controls in place to mitigate them, are formally reported, adequacy and effectiveness are monitored through the risk discussed and challenged, at meetings of the Audit Committee management and audit processes which include financial and and Board.
To the extent significant risks, failings or control property management audits.
weaknesses arise during the year, these are reported to the Board and appropriate action is taken to rectify the issue and The Group has established processes and procedures to identify, implement controls to mitigate further occurrences.
assess and manage the principal risks it faces.
These processes and procedures were in place throughout the year and remained Having monitored the Groups risk management and internal in place up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report and control system, and having reviewed the effectiveness of material accord with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk controls, the Audit Committee has not identified any significant Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business failings or weaknesses in the Groups control structure during the Reporting 2014. year.
The key elements of the Groups procedures and internal SEE THE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ON PAGES 78 TO 81 financial control framework, which are monitored throughout the year, are: Principal risks and uncertainties Close involvement of the executive directors in all aspects of day-to-day operations, including regular meetings with The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal employees to review all operational aspects of the business, risks faced by the business.
The nature of these has remained including risks and controls unchanged over the year and relates to issues which might prevent us from achieving our long-term goals of creating Clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority sustainable revenue growth and increasing the value of the Defined schedule of matters for decision by the Board including portfolio, or factors which could adversely impact shareholders significant acquisitions, disposals, major contracts, material investment in the business.
These are set out on pages 61 to 63. refurbishment development proposals and any other transaction outside the normal course of business A comprehensive system of financial reporting and forecasting The day-to-day management of the Groups portfolio is outsourced to three managing agents.
The Group monitors the performance of each managing agent and has established extensive financial and operational controls to ensure that each maintains an acceptable level of service and provides reliable financial and operational information.
The managing agents share with the Group their internal control assessments.
The Group periodically uses the services of an external consultant to review the managing agents operational processes and controls.
SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 061 Geographic concentration risk Risk of a sustained fall in visitor numbers and or spending EVOLUTION OF RISK DURING RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION THE YEAR Events which discourage Reduced visitor numbers, Inherent risk given the visitors to the West End e. g. spending and occupier geographic concentration demand of our investments in a high threats to security or public profile location safety due to terrorism Reduced rental income and or capital values Terrorism and loss of rent health concerns e. g. Across the West End, visitor insurance pandemics Potential increased vacancy numbers, spending and and declining profitability Close liaison with local Major, long-term disruption occupier demand continue to bodies authorities to to the public transport Damage to property be buoyant.
The UKs terrorism maximise safety of visitors network upon which the area threat level remains severe depends Detailed emergency response plans SEE PAGE 13 FOR WHY WE FOCUS ON THE WEST END Competing destinations lead Reduced visitor numbers and Ensure our villages maintain a to long-term decline in footfall occupier demand distinct identity in our villages Reduced rental income and Management strategies to or capital values create prosperous destinations within which Potential increased vacancy Footfall and occupier demand tenants can operate and declining profitability across our villages remains Seek out new concepts, brands strong.
We continue to see and ideas to keep our villages sustained rental growth and vibrant and appealing low vacancy Consistent strategy on tenant mix, which evolves over time Marketing and promotion of our villages KPI to deliver sustainable rental growth Regular board monitoring of village performance and prospects SEE PAGES 30 TO 31 FOR DETAILS ON OUR PROVEN MANAGEMENT STRATEGY 062 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Regulatory risks EVOLUTION OF RISK DURING RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION THE YEAR All our properties are in the L imit our ability to optimise Ensure our properties are boroughs of Westminster and revenues operated in compliance with Camden.
Changes to local local regulations Reduced profitability policies, particularly planning Make representations on Reduced capital values and licensing, could have a proposed policy changes, There are no current significant impact on our ability to ensure our views and indications that the evolution to maximise the long-term experience are considered of the planning and licensing potential of its assets environments, either as a Mix of uses in our portfolio result of national or local means we are not reliant on legislation, will have a material income from one particular impact on the Groups business use for the foreseeable future SEE PAGES 20 TO 27 FOR DETAILS ON OUR MIX OF USES All our buildings are in Potential decrease in Up-to-date Energy Conservation Areas and revenues and increased cost Performance Certificates being many are listed.
Legislation obtained for all buildings Cost to improve buildings to to improve environmental the required standard Phased programme of performance of buildings Our rolling programme improvements to future-proof may restrict the future use of works is delivering buildings within the of older buildings by making performance above the constraints of current listed them subject to standards minimum levels currently building and conservation which cannot be met because required under legislation areas legislation the changes required would be inconsistent with existing legislation for listed buildings and Conservation Areas SEE SUSTAINABILITY ON PAGES 146 TO 155 together SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 063 Economic risks which may threaten our ability to meet our strategic objectives EVOLUTION OF RISK DURING RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION THE YEAR Periods of economic Pressure on rents Focus on assets, locations uncertainty and lower and uses which have Declining profitability confidence could reduce historically proved to be Reduced capital values consumer spending, tenant economically resilient and profitability and occupier have demonstrated much The West Ends economy is demand lower valuation volatility than buoyant and we continue to the wider market benefit from strong demand, Diverse tenant base with footfall and rental growth.
The limited exposure to any one Global and UK economies are tenant forecast to deliver trend-level growth over the medium term, Tenant deposits held against underpinning business and unpaid rent obligations at 30 consumer confidence September 2015 : 17.4m SEE PAGES 8 TO 13 FOR DETAILS ON OUR UNIQUE PORTFOLIO AND WHY WE INVEST IN THE WEST END Decline in the UK real estate Reduced capital values Focus on assets, locations market due to macroand uses which have Decrease in NAV, amplified economic factors e. g. global historically proved to be by gearing political landscape, currency economically resilient and Loan covenant defaults expectations, bond yields, have demonstrated much Interest rates have continued interest rate expectations, lower valuation volatility than at historically low levels.
availability and cost of finance, the wider market Market sentiment is that relative attractiveness of Regular review of investment increases will be moderate property compared with other market conditions including and gradual asset classes bi-annual external valuations Maintain conservative levels of leverage Quarterly forecasts including covenant headroom review Substantial pool of uncharged assets available to top up security held by lenders SEE PAGES 8 TO 13 FOR DETAILS ON OUR UNIQUE PORTFOLIO AND WHY WE INVEST IN THE WEST END.
SEE ALSO PAGE 34 FOR OUR CONSERVATIVE APPROACH TO FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT alone 064 kiss makeup 065
