Implementation and compliance responsibility PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Managing uncertainty The assessment and management of risk underpins our operating, financial and governance activities.
Effective risk management underpins our business model.
Our risk management policies are designed to reduce the chances of financial loss, protect our reputation and optimise performance when opportunities arise.
The Board assesses and controls the Groups risk appetite and regularly monitors our Risk Management Framework to ensure risks are being appropriately mitigated and new risks identified.
The framework is reviewed by our management teams and communicated to all our staff.
RISK MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES The responsibility for risk management rests ultimately with the Board.
However, the foundations of our approach are instilled in our culture and values.
The relatively low number of personnel across the Group encourages effective collaboration and the flat management structure means that the senior team is actively involved in ensuring adherence to the Groups risk management policies and procedures, including risk identification and mitigation.
Chart 59 summarises the key roles and responsibilities for the Groups risk management strategy and demonstrates the interaction between the Board and management teams in ensuring effective risk management is applied across the Groups activities.
Chart 59 Key roles and responsibilities for the Groups risk management strategy Overall responsibility for corporate strategy, governance, performance, BOARD internal controls and risk management Defines the Groups appetite for risk and monitors risks to ensure these are effectively managed, including agreeing actions where necessary Reviews effectiveness of the Risk Management Framework and AUDIT COMMITTEE internal controls on behalf of the Board Ensures compliance with relevant legislation, rules and regulations Oversees effectiveness of the Groups internal audit arrangements GROUP EXECUTIVE Management of the business and delivery of strategy COMMITTEE Formally reviews the Risk Management Framework including monitoring key risk indicators RISK AND CONTROLS Responsible for integration of the Risk Management Framework COMMITTEE throughout the business Monitors compliance with the Groups internal control systems Management of the internal audit arrangements Responsible for implementation of risk mitigation actions and DIVISIONAL MANAGEMENT: monitoring compliance with internal controls and procedures at the UK, FRANCE AND IRELAND operational level of the business Formal reviews of the Risk Management Framework to identify risk trends Oversight of project level risk management activities 62 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Monitoring and reporting responsibility STRATEGIC REPORT S S PRIN TRA TRA CIP TEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPOR AL RISKS T T C CORPORA ORPORATE GO TE GOVERN VERNAN ANCE CE FIN FINAN ANCIAL S CIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S O OTHER INF THER INFORMA ORMATION TION RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Our Risk Management Framework is structured around eight principal risk areas, contains mitigating actions and allocates management responsibility for each individual risk.
The framework is subject to regular management review, including at each Risk and Controls Committee and Audit Committee meeting.
The framework designates a level of residual risk to each principal risk area, taking account of mitigation actions, and this residual risk is considered in the context of our risk appetite.
During 2015, the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and determined that the level of residual risk associated with our principal risk areas has generally increased, although each remains within our risk appetite.
An assessment of the potential impact and probability associated with each of our principal risks is shown on chart 60.
Chart 60 Principal Risks: Potential impact and probability assessment Business strategy 1 1 2 Property and corporate investment 3 Property development 4 4 Treasury 7 Ownership structures 5 6 Tax and regulatory 3 2 7 Catastrophic event 6 Business organisation and human resources 8 5 Low 8 Medium High LOW PROBABILITY HIGH Note: Arrow indicates change in risk assessment during 2015.
CASE STUDY HEALTH AND SAFETY IN ACTION CRISIS MANAGEMENT We are committed to managing health and safety risks The risk of a catastrophic event, such as a terrorist incident throughout our operations.
The Board approves the health and at one of our properties, has increased during 2015.
We have safety strategy which is administered by the Health and Safety comprehensive emergency plans in place including the Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
It is our goal formation of a Core Crisis Group CCG to react to a range to ensure that we cause no harm to our staff or to visitors to our of major incidents.
During an incident, the CCG would provide properties.
We achieve and measure this through maintaining direction to our property-based teams as well as managing high safety and welfare standards which include: customer and media relations.
The employment of a Chartered Professional Health and The CCG includes the Executive Directors who are responsible Safety Practitioner and specialist team to provide strategic for key decisions within previously agreed strategic principles and operational support to all areas of the business: which place the protection of life above any other consideration.
This team must be properly equipped to address Developing a comprehensive safety and emergency any major incident.
preparedness training programme: Regular reporting and monitoring of adherence to the In October, we organised an  exercise Groups health and safety policies including the use of to simulate a plausible incident at one of our shopping centres external and internal audits: and which involved life safety issues, disruptions to normal operations and extensive media coverage.
The CCG worked Accreditation of the Hammerson Health and Safety through the scenario, whilst receiving additional updates from management system against ISO18001.
key external organisations and the media, to determine This continual focus on health and safety has helped ensure that response priorities and organise the responses needed for during 2015 we have maintained a 100% compliance record with a full recovery and resumption of business.
The event affirmed all regulatory requirements and had no major injuries to our the strength of the Groups plans, although a number of employees.
We have also reduced the number of visitor accidents improvements were identified which are being implemented.
at our portfolio by 16% to 486, which is very low compared to footfall levels, and only 32 were RIDDOR reportable incidents.
COM 63 LOW IMPACT HIGH Principal risks and uncertainties continued PRINCIPAL RISKS Further details of the key risks within each of the Groups principal risk areas is shown below.
Risk and impact Mitigation Change during 2015 and outlook 1. BUSINESS STRATEGY Executive responsibility: David Atkins Impact Probability Our retail strategy of investing in We focus on prime shopping centres in the best The UK economy has seen solid growth during shopping centres, retail parks and locations, convenient retail parks and premium 2015, although the recovery in France has been premium outlets in selected European outlets, all with experienced management.
countries results in underperformance We commission and evaluate research into the Stock markets have been volatile, especially in the relative to other sectors or markets, economy and investment and occupational markets second half of 2015 and beginning of 2016 due to a range eroding shareholder value.
and use this when preparing our annual Business of conflicting economic data and external shocks.
The macro-economic environment Plan and regular financial forecasts.
Whilst growth is forecast in the UK, France and Ireland declines, impacting consumer Within our Business Plan we stress-test our there are downside risks associated with China, Brexit spending and property values, projections against a severe downside economic and the Middle East which could adversely impact adversely impacting earnings and net scenario.
This has confirmed that our current and economic stability.
projected financial position is robust.
We have low UK and French retail sales have grown during 2015 Failure to anticipate and address gearing, effective foreign currency hedging, which has strengthened the occupational retail market.
developments in consumer and long-term secure income streams, a good spread of Retailers continue to seek new space, and physical real occupational markets, such as debt maturities and the flexibility to phase or halt estate remains central to their plans.
Retailers are multichannel retailing and digital our development programme, all of which point to concentrating their requirements on properties which technology results in obsolescence and resilience to market shocks.
can support their multichannel sales offer and are able financial underperformance.
We monitor closely developments in the retail to attract consumers.
environment and apply our Product Experience Link to business model See Our market section on page 14 Framework to ensure our portfolio remains attractive to both retailers and consumers.
PROPERTY AND CORPORATE INVESTMENT Executive responsibility: David Atkins Peter Cole Impact Probability Investment decisions result in Acquisitions are thoroughly evaluated and are We have recently completed a number of significant inadequate returns or the adoption of supported by detailed review, financial appraisals, acquisitions, principally the Irish loan portfolio and unforeseen liabilities.
due diligence and a risk assessment prior to Grand Central in Birmingham.
The performance of Board approval.
these large transactions will be closely scrutinised.
Opportunities to divest of properties Borrowing levels are forecast to reduce in 2016 through are missed, or are limited by market The performance of individual properties is the completion of the major disposals programme constraints, which reduces potential benchmarked against target returns.
returns and adversely impacts the Properties are held in a ready for sale state, Groups funding strategy.
with documentation supporting leases, rights Real estate investment demand, particularly for prime and obligations readily accessible.
assets, remains strong in the UK, France and Ireland.
Link to business model This is further supported by the continuing low interest Our property portfolio is high-quality, and rate and inflation environment.
These factors have 2 diversified by market sector and geography, contributed to a rise in real estate values during 2015. reducing the impact of a downturn in a single Future valuation growth is forecast to be more subdued market.
and be driven more by income growth than inward yield movements.
Also, any macroeconomic uncertainty could adversely impact investment markets.
See Our market section on page 14 KEY TO PRINCIPAL RISKS TABLE: ALIGNMENT TO BUSINESS MODEL Operational activities Change in risk assessment in 2015 1 Asset management Impact Probability Higher 2 Investment management No change 3 Developing venues Lower 4 Financial efficiency See pages 4 and 5 for Our Business Model 64 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT S S PRIN TRA TRA CIP TEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPOR AL RISKS T T C CORPORA ORPORATE GO TE GOVERN VERNAN ANCE CE FIN FINAN ANCIAL S CIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S O OTHER INF THER INFORMA ORMATION TION Risk and impact Mitigation Change during 2015 and outlook 3.
PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT Executive responsibility: Peter Cole Impact Probability During 2015 we have reduced the level of risk associated Over-exposure to developments, Our exposure to developments and the phasing with developments by progressing the development particularly major long-term schemes, of projects is considered as part of our annual pipeline and have successfully completed four increases the impact of an economic Business Plan and reviewed throughout the year.
At 31 December 2015, two further downturn which would adversely This process also considers future resourcing schemes are on-site and the development portfolio affect scheme viability and increase requirements.
represents only 5% of our property portfolio.
financing and cash flow pressures.
We produce regular management reporting, Poor development management and including risk reporting, to enable effective As we approach the commencement of our major inadequate resourcing leads to failed monitoring of development projects.
development schemes we will only commit when sound or sub-optimal projects.
Multi-disciplinary teams are assembled for each financial and risk analysis demonstrates scheme Increasing construction activity and development under a designated project owner, viability and good returns.
The progress made with our raw material prices result in and these are supported by external expertise.
three major London schemes during the year coincides construction price inflation adversely with improving demand from retailers for new prime Detailed analysis, including market research, is impacting the viability and financial trading locations.
However, a number of key milestones undertaken prior to the approval of expenditure returns of projects.
including further planning consents, anchor tenants for each key milestone for development projects.
agreements and leasing targets are required to bring Failure to achieve key project Where possible, guaranteed maximum price these schemes to fruition.
milestones, such as planning consents, contracts are agreed with building contractors and land acquisitions and leasing targets, fixed prices agreed for other advisers.
We have allowed appropriate cost inflation on a timely basis damages project contingencies within the scheme appraisals and to lock Constructive relationships are maintained with viability and corporate reputation.
in competitive pricing we will look to secure local councils and government.
construction contracts well ahead of schemes going Post-completion reviews are undertaken for all Links to business model on-site.
Cost inflation should be tempered by the significant projects and presented to management, 3 reduction in the oil price and lower global demand for including the Audit Committee.
potential improvements to processes are identified See Business Review on page 34 and considered for future projects.
TREASURY Executive responsibility: Timon Drakesmith Impact Probability Poor treasury planning or external The Board approves our treasury strategy and Our borrowing levels and near-term refinancing factors, including failures in the regularly monitors guidelines for financial ratios.
requirements have increased during 2015, principally banking system, lead to a liquidity These guidelines include ensuring we maintain an associated with the Irish loan portfolio acquisition.
squeeze preventing the refinancing of appropriate debt maturity profile, and manage the However, at 31 December 2015, our balance sheet and maturing debt or leading to exposure to fixed and floating interest rates and the financial ratios remain robust.
We have access to a wide insufficient liquidity to progress the level of foreign exchange hedging.
range of funding sources including bank lending, bond development programme.
and equity market, and private placements and we Credit ratings are set and monitored for lending completed a number of significant financing Adverse currency or interest rate counterparties and we use diverse sources transactions during 2015.
We expect to maintain a movements result in financial losses.
strong financial position during 2016 and credit rating Deterioration in our financial position The Board approves all major investment decisions agencies have recently reaffirmed our ratings.
may result in a breach of borrowing which are supported by a financing plan and takes a covenants which triggers default and proactive approach to refinancing.
The macro-economic environment has continued to or repayment of facilities or bonds and provide historically low interest rates and the financial Our annual Business Plan includes stress tests inhibits corporate strategy.
markets have good levels of liquidity for companies in a considering the impact of a significant strong financial position.
However, macro-economic deterioration in the markets in which we operate.
Links to business model uncertainties could adversely impact future liquidity The high quality and diversification of our portfolio and pricing.
4 should help to protect our financial position, particularly from falling property values.
At Whilst there is an expectation, particularly in the UK, of 31 December 2015, gearing stood at 54%, future interest rates increases, these are forecast to be significantly lower than the Groups most stringent gradual and dependent on the underlying strength of borrowing covenant that gearing should not exceed the wider economy.
We estimate that property values including Sterling has strengthened by 5% against the euro during premium outlets could fall by 42% from their 2015 and remains volatile with continued challenges December 2015 levels before covenants would within the eurozone and the current wider global market be endangered.
However, we mitigate our foreign exchange risk by maintaining a high level of currency hedge.
See Financial Review on page 60 HAMMERSON.
COM 65 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk and impact Mitigation Change during 2015 and outlook 5.
OWNERSHIP STRUCTURES Executive responsibility: Peter Cole Impact Probability Joint ventures reduce the exposure risk associated Joint control reduces liquidity We undertake an annual liquidity review of all our with owning major shopping centres and we have a and could impact operational properties.
We have a diverse range of joint venture long and successful track record of working effectively effectiveness, especially if joint partners and documentation is drafted to ensure with a variety of partners.
venture partners are not strategic alignment and to provide liquidity for strategically aligned.
partners whilst protecting our ownership.
During 2015, the proportion of properties held within Lack of direct control over externally We maintain strong working relationships and hold joint ventures or associates has increased to 45% managed premium outlet interests regular meetings with our partners to proactively by value at 31 December 2015, principally due to reduces transparency of performance manage any issues.
Annual business plans are used the sales of wholly-owned properties: Drakehouse, and governance and may result in to ensure operational and strategic alignment.
This figure will increase inconsistent strategies.
We have an increasingly close working relationship further in 2016 when the Irish properties are secured and have formal influence over strategy and and with the completion of the acquisition of Grand Links to business model governance through board representation for both Central, Birmingham.
Value Retail and VIA Outlets.
Our investment in 1 2 3 4 We are confident that joint venture ownership VIA Outlets contains provisions to enable effective structures do not adversely impact liquidity with joint governance and control.
a number of joint venture stakes successfully traded Our premium outlet investments are both subject in the investment market during 2015. to external audit and the properties are See notes 12 and 13 to the accounts independently valued for us by Cushman and Wakefield with the valuations reviewed by management and the Audit Committee.
TAX AND REGULATORY Executive responsibility: Timon Drakesmith Impact Probability Loss of tax-exempt status due Compliance with rules for maintaining tax-exempt No significant changes during 2015, although to change in legislation or status monitored by in-house tax specialist and governments continue to seek to reduce fiscal deficits.
The real estate sector is sometimes perceived by EU UK regulation, including Speculation and comment relating to changes in regulators to be part of the financial services sector environmental matters, acts as a brake tax regimes in the UK and Europe is monitored rather than as an operating business and the industry on growth and an administrative with the help of external advisers.
could be adversely affected by misdirected regulation burden for the real estate sector.
Developments in regulation are monitored and designed to stabilise financial markets, such as the governments and regulators lobbied through proposed OECD BEPS project.
Links to business model representation by UK and European real estate Changes in the UK associated with the living wage, trade bodies.
4 apprenticeships and business rates, whilst not having a Monitoring of exposure to key regulations and significant direct impact on us, may have an adverse mitigation planning is undertaken at a portfolio financial impact in the wider retail sector.
We also undertake active participation in associated with Brexit are also likely to impact existing policy consultations and in industry-led dialogue legislation.
See Financial Review on page 56 and note 8 to the accounts 7.
CATASTROPHIC EVENT Executive responsibility: David Atkins Impact Probability Our operations, reputation or financial We have continuity plans at both corporate and Whilst the overall probability of a major incident at one security could be significantly affected individual property levels and have established a of the Groups properties remains low, the threat level by a major event such as a terrorist or Core Crisis Group for dealing with a major incident.
Also the wider use of digital cyber attack, power shortage or civil technology across the Group increases the risks We have enhanced the physical security measures unrest.
at our properties and maintain an on-going dialogue with security agencies to assess threat Climate change could adversely We have thoroughly reviewed and improved our levels and best practice.
impact our operations, through an processes and procedures to counter the threat of a environmental incident such as Our insurance policies include cover for property major incident.
However, it is not possible to fully flooding or changes in consumer or damage, including from terrorism and climate mitigate the risk and impact if an incident were to occur.
See Health and Safety case study on page 63 We have a clear sustainability strategy which is Links to business model integrated within our business model and addresses on-going climate change matters.
1 66 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT S S PRIN TRA TRA CIP TEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPOR AL RISKS T T C CORPORA ORPORATE GO TE GOVERN VERNAN ANCE CE FIN FINAN ANCIAL S CIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S O OTHER INF THER INFORMA ORMATION TION Risk and impact Mitigation Change during 2015 and outlook 8. BUSINESS ORGANISATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES Executive responsibility: David Atkins Impact Probability During 2015, we have successfully completed the Management structures or resourcing A human resources plan is included within relocation of our London headquarters and established levels are inappropriate for achieving the annual Business Plan.
This considers our new operations centre in Reading.
team structures, training requirements and talent management.
Failure to recruit and retain key We recognise the importance of motivating and executives and staff with appropriate The Nomination Committee approves succession developing our staff and have plans in action to help to skills and calibre undermines plans for senior roles.
mitigate the impact of third party recruitment corporate strategy.
Significant changes to the management structure approaches in a strong recruitment market.
We have are approved by the Board.
had improved employee engagement scores from our Links to business model employee surveys undertaken during the year and will We periodically review the remuneration structure, implement a number of enhancements based on the 1 2 3 including an annual review by the Remuneration feedback received.
Committee and benchmarking against industry, or other relevant, comparatives.
2016 will require significant effort to establish and We have established a management competency integrate our new Irish platform with our existing framework and management skills are formally Group structures and processes.
assessed within the annual appraisal process.
See Our people section on page 49 GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Business Review, the Financial Review and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties sections of the Annual Report.
The financial position of the Group, its liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also described on pages 60 and 61 and in notes 17, 19 and 20 to the accounts.
The Directors have reviewed the current and projected financial position of the Group, making reasonable assumptions about future trading performance.
As part of the review, the Directors considered the Groups cash balances, its debt maturity profile, including undrawn facilities, and the long-term nature of tenant leases.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going Concern provision.
The Board conducted this review, taking account of the Groups current position, future plans and the potential impact of the Principal Risks documented within this section.
Based on this review, the Directors have concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a five-year period to 31 December 2020.
This period was selected for the following key reasons: i The Groups annual Business Plan covers a five-year period and considers the Groups cash flows and key financial metrics and includes sensitivity analysis to validate the Groups resilience and mitigation options to adverse events.
ii The Group has a stable, secure income stream with five-year, upward only, rent reviews and has an average unexpired lease term of six years at 31 December 2015. iii The time-scale for the delivery of the Groups major development schemes is approximately five years and currently extends beyond 2020. iv Whilst 1.6 billion of the Groups borrowings are due to mature within the five-year period, the Directors have a reasonable expectation, and have assumed, that these can be refinanced on normal market terms during that period, and as at 31 December 2015 the Groups weighted average debt maturity was six years.
v Most leases contain a five-year rent review pattern and therefore five years allows for the forecasts to include the reversion arising from those reviews.
The five-year strategic review considers the Groups cash flows, dividend cover, REIT compliance and other key financial ratios over the period.
2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Pages 1 to 67 of this Annual Report constitute the Strategic Report.
It has been approved and signed on behalf of the Board on 12 February 2016.
DAVID ATKINS TIMON DRAKESMITH Director Director HAMMERSON.
