INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ACACIA MINING PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our audit approach Overview Our opinion In our opinion, Acacia Mining plcs Group financial statements Materiality Overall Group materiality: US$5.7 million the financial statements : which represents approximately 5% of three-year average profit before tax adjusted give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at for Impairment charges and items included 31December 2015 and of its loss and cash flows for the year within Other Charges as presented on the then ended: face of the consolidated income statement have been properly prepared in accordance with International and detailed within notes 7 and 10.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Scope We identified three mine sites located in European Union: and Tanzania which, in our view, required an have been prepared in accordance with the requirements audit of their complete financial information.
of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We conducted other audit procedures in London, South Africa, and Tanzania.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report Taken together, the territories and functions and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: where we performed our audit work accounted for 100% of revenue and approximately 88% the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: of absolute profit before tax i. e. the sum of the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement the numerical values without regard to whether of comprehensive income for the year then ended: they were profits or losses for the relevant the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year territories and functions.
then ended: Areas of focus Impairment assessments of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant & equipment.
the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: and The recoverability of the supplies inventory the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary balance at the Buzwagi site.
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Taxation including provisions for uncertain Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the deferred tax positions and the recoverability Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
as adopted by the European Union.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table opposite.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
94 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment assessments of goodwill, intangible assets We considered managements impairment trigger analysis and agreed and property, plant & equipment that an indicator existed.
Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report, page 106 critical accounting In assessing the valuation of the CGUs, we evaluated managements estimates and judgements, page 111 principal accounting policies future cash flow forecasts for each CGU, and the process by which they and note 7. were drawn up, including verifying the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow models and agreeing future capital and operating expenditure Acacia Mining has goodwill of US$127.9 million, indefinite-lived intangible to the latest Board approved budgets and the latest approved life of assets of US$83.3 million and property, plant and equipment of mine plans.
US$1,390.7 million as at 31 December 2015 primarily contained within the following cash generating units CGUs : Bulyanhulu, North Mara, For each CGU we used our valuation specialists to assist us in and Buzwagi.
evaluating the appropriateness of key market related assumptions in managements valuation models, including both short-term and long-term The Bulyanhulu CGU which has a carrying value of $1,257.3 million contains gold prices, and discount rates.
goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and therefore must be tested for impairment on an annual basis.
We assessed the reasonableness of managements future forecasts of capital and operating expenses included in the cash flow forecasts Management must also determine the recoverable amount for other assets in light of the historical accuracy of such forecasts and the current including property, plant and equipment when impairment indicators are operational results.
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions within As at 31 December 2015, being managements testing date, the Buzwagi the cash flow forecasts using a range of higher discount rates and lower and North Mara CGUs had a carrying value of $269.4 million excluding long-term gold prices based on what, in our view, a market participant impairment charges of $188.7 million and $284.9 million respectively may apply.
and management identified an impairment indicator due to the continued decrease in the gold price during the year which reduced the price For the Buzwagi CGU, the estimation of recoverable amount is highly assumption used to calculate the mines reserve and resource estimations.
sensitive to changes in gold price assumptions.
However, due to the short remaining mine life, changes to the discount rate do not have The determination of recoverable amount was based on the higher of a significant impact on recoverable amount.
We formed an independent value-in-use and fair value less costs to dispose, which requires judgement view of the gold price that a market participant might use in a fair value on the part of management in valuing the relevant CGUs.
less cost to dispose scenario which indicated a range of possible values Recoverable amounts are based on managements views of variables for the CGU.
Managements estimate of recoverable amount was in such as future commodity prices, the most appropriate discount rate the mid-point of this range and was considered reasonable.
The carrying and timing and approval of future capital and operating expenditure.
value exceeded this estimated recoverable amount, resulting in the need for an impairment charge.
We considered the allocation of the As a result of its assessment, management has recorded a pre-tax impairment charge between supplies inventory, non-current inventories impairment charge of US$146.2 million in relation to assets within and property, plant and equipment and were satisfied that the the Buzwagi CGU which includes an allocation to non-current inventory methodology applied was appropriate.
With regards to the North Mara and Bulyanhulu CGUs, managements estimated recoverable amounts supported the carrying value of these assets as at 31 December 2015.
In assessing the level of headroom at these CGUs we performed downside sensitivities based on a range of possible gold prices and discount rates, concluding that headroom was maintained under these scenarios.
Consequently, no impairment charge was considered necessary, although the estimate of recoverable amount remains sensitive to changes in these key assumptions.
We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 7 of the financial statements, including the sensitivities provided with respect to the CGUs.
The recoverability of the supplies inventory balance at the Buzwagi site We considered the methodology applied by management to identify slow moving and surplus supplies inventory including validating the Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report, page 106 critical accounting identification of aged items and considered it an appropriate method estimates and judgements, page 109 principal accounting policies and to determine an estimate of recoverability.
With regards to the existence of supplies inventory, we attended The Group has a material supplies inventory balance at the Buzwagi site.
inventory sample counts performed by local management at year end We focused on this area because of the risk of existence of the large at all three mine sites.
During these counts we observed managements quantity of supplies inventory on hand, in addition to the short remaining count procedures and performed independent test counts by selecting a life of mines that could have an adverse impact on the valuation of the sample of items from both the accounting records and from the inventory inventory.
Managements count procedures were considered appropriate.
As part of the impairment assessment noted above, management has No significant exceptions in managements count procedures, or booked a provision of $39.7 million for supplies inventory at Buzwagi that unexplained variances from our test counts were identified.
is not expected to be used during the remaining mine life.
The net carrying value as at 31 December 2015 is US$35.1 million.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 95 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ACACIA MINING PLC CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Taxation including provisions for uncertain deferred tax positions We read correspondence between management and the Tanzanian and the recoverability of indirect taxes Revenue Authority and assessed managements position in relation to the specific matters disputed.
Refer to note 34 for tax related Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report, page 106 critical accounting contingencies disclosed.
estimates and judgements, page 114 principal accounting policies and note 34.
In relation to deferred tax, we also assessed the availability of estimated future taxable income to utilise recognised carry forward losses and The Group has material deferred tax balances which include prior year the reversal of temporary deferred tax differences by comparing the tax loss assessments that continue to be in dispute with the Tanzanian estimates to the latest Board approved budgets and the latest approved Revenue Authority.
We assessed the impact of the revised life of mine In addition, the Group has recorded significant indirect tax receivables, plans and the impairment at Buzwagi and satisfied ourselves that the of which a material amount has not been refunded in a timely manner.
reduction in deferred tax asset in relation to losses at the operation was calculated appropriately and was consistent with the underlying trading assumptions.
We also determined based on payments received to date and the existence of a memorandum of settlement with the Tanzanian Revenue Authority for the long-term element of the receivable, that the indirect tax receivables are recoverable, and appropriately classified as non-current based on the expected future tax payable from 2017.
We examined the Annual Report disclosures to ensure the risk associated with recovery was appropriately highlighted.
How we tailored the audit scope Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and The Groups assets and operations are primarily located at three mine in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the sites in Tanzania, representing the Groups three CGUs noted above.
Financial reporting processes related to the activities of these mine sites are undertaken at shared business centres SBCs located Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for in Dar es Salaam and Johannesburg.
the financial statements as a whole as follows: In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined Overall Group US$5.7 million 2014: US$8.45 million.
the type of work that needed to be performed at each of the three materiality mine sites and the SBCs by us, as the Group engagement team, and How we Approximately 5% of three-year average profit before tax by component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under determined it adjusted for Impairment charges and items included our instruction.
We requested that full scope audits were performed within Other Charges as presented on the face of the at each of the three main mine sites which included the relevant SBC.
consolidated income statement and detailed within notes In addition, we conducted other audit procedures in London, South Africa 7 and 10. and Tanzania, including specified procedures performed by a component Rationale for In 2014 our benchmark for materiality was the profit audit team in South Africa over exploration expenses incurred within benchmark before tax for the year, adjusted for other charges to Acacia Exploration Kenya due to the quantum of costs incurred during applied eliminate the impact of the volatility resulting from those the current year.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, charges.
This year, there has been further volatility resulting we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit from movements in the gold market.
To eliminate this work at those sites and SBCs to be able to conclude whether sufficient further volatility, we changed our materiality benchmark appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion to the average adjusted profit over the last three years.
on the Group financial statements as a whole.
We continued to determine materiality based on 5% Involvement of the Group engagement team included site visits at two of the of our chosen benchmark.
The result is, nonetheless, three mines, attendance at Acacias Tanzanian and South African offices, that our materiality is significantly lower than last year.
conference calls and meetings with the Tanzanian audit team, review of the Tanzanian auditor work papers, attendance at local audit clearance meetings, and other forms of communication as considered necessary depending on the significance of the accounting and audit issues arising.
Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 100% of revenue and approximately 88% of absolute profit before tax i. e. the sum of the numerical values without regard to whether they were profits or losses for the relevant territories and functions.
96 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group misstatements identified during our audit above US$1 million and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency 2014: US$1 million as well as misstatements below that amount or liquidity of the Group that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material Going concern to add or to draw attention to in relation to: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 41, in relation to going concern.
We have the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report, We have nothing to report having performed our review.
in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, nothing material that they have carried out a robust assessment to add or to draw Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are also required to report to you if we of the principal risks facing the Group, including attention to.
have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to those that would threaten its business model, the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate future performance, solvency or liquidity.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe We have We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
those risks and explain how they are being nothing material As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded managed or mitigated.
to add or to draw that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the attention to.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group the Directors explanation in the Annual Report, We have has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, nothing material intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial as to how they have assessed the prospects of to add or to draw statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Group, over what period they have done so attention to.
the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, and why they consider that period to be appropriate, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these and their statement as to whether they have a statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue reasonable expectation that the Group will be able as a going concern.
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
to the longer-term viability of the Group, set out on page 23.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted ISAs UK & Ireland reporting of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment to report to you if, in our opinion: with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us information in the Annual Report is: We have no in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report materially inconsistent with the information exceptions having performed our review.
in the audited financial statements: or to report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or Adequacy of information and explanations received materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, the Group acquired in the course of performing in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations our audit: or we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 57, We have no in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK exceptions Directors remuneration Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they to report.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified be fair, balanced and understandable and provides by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from the information necessary for members to assess this responsibility.
the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with Corporate governance statement our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the of performing our audit.
Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions the section of the Annual Report on page 58, We have no of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, exceptions having performed our review.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does to report.
not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 97 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ACACIA MINING PLC CONTINUED RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER MATTERS AND THE AUDIT We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements Our responsibilities and those of the Directors of Acacia Mining plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 and on the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as set out on page 89, the Directors are responsible for the preparation having been audited.
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Jonathan Lambert Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 London of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving 8 March 2016 these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
98 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
