102 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF AGGREKO PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Aggreko plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state ofthe Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit and cash ows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: the Group and Company Balance Sheets as at 31 December 2015: the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identied as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Our audit approach Context As discussed in the Annual Report, during 2015 Aggreko changed business line reporting with Aggreko Power Solutions Utility and Industrial now encompassing the previous power projects business and local businesses in developing markets and Aggreko Rental Solutions encompassing local businesses in developed markets.
This change in reporting did not require us to substantively change our Group audit process from the previous year.
We did, however, focus this year on exceptional items relating to the Group reorganisation and business priorities review referred tointheAnnual Report.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 12.6 million which represents 5% of profit before taxand Materiality exceptional items.
In terms of Group audit scope, we conducted audit work at 12 reporting units within the Group, which together comprised 74% of the Groups revenues and 81% of the Groups profit before tax.
Audit scope We worked closely with audit teams both within and outside the UK, including visiting our team in Houston.
In terms of our Group audit, our principal areas of focus were: Contract receivables balances and associated provisioning: Areas of Tax provisions Direct and indirect : focus Revenue recognition: and Exceptional items relating to Group reorganisation and business priorities review.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 103 The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, welooked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identied as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specic areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not acomplete list of all risks identied by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We documented and gained an understanding of the key controls and processes that Contract receivables balances management and the Directors have in place to assess the expected recovery of Power and associated provisioning Solutions Utility contract receivables balances and associated provisioning.
One of the biggest risks to the Group is nonpayment by customers under some of the larger We checked, on a sample basis, that the pre-contract risk assessment procedures were in contracts in the Power Solutions Utility business.
place in respect of the most significant contracts entered into during the year and did not identify any where they were not.
Contract receivables provisions are, by their nature, highly judgmental, mainly due to the We obtained the contract receivables analyses and tested the gross receivables balances, on unpredictability and volatility of cash receipts in a sample basis, for example by tracing to outstanding invoices or subsequent cash receipt.
We then applied various selection criteria, principally focusing on the largest contract We focused on this area due to the balances within each region, to identify 18 contracts for testing representing 83% of the total magnitude of both the accounts receivable amount outstanding at 31 December 2015 and 97% of contract provisions at the year end.
balances 223 million 2014: 208 million For those contracts selected, we: and the associated provisions, 48million tested the relevant associated cover, including deposits and guarantees, to assess the 2014: 38 million which are determined residual contract receivable exposure: basedon managements estimates.
considered the contract terms and assessed their accounting impact: considered the history of cash payments, including post year end cash receipts from the customer and compared the consistency of assumptions used in calculating provisions, both over time within the contract and as between contracts with similar risk proles: and used our knowledge and experience to consider the completeness and challenge the basis of contract provisioning.
This is an area which requires significant management judgement and has a range of possible outcomes.
However from the evidence we obtained, we did not identify any material misstatement in the contract receivables provision.
104 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We documented and gained an understanding of the key controls and processes that Tax provisions Direct and indirect management and the Directors have in place to assess the tax risks and exposures and the The Groups direct and indirect tax provisions associated direct and indirect tax provisioning.
are, by their nature, highly judgmental.
This is due to the complexity of the Groups operations We obtained reports showing the components of the tax provisions and used them to identify in multiple tax jurisdictions and the changing tax the most significant balances for detailed testing.
environments in which it operates.
We then applied various selection criteria, principally focusing on the largest balances and We focused on this area due to the magnitude identied 23 provisions for testing representing 82% of the total direct and indirect tax of direct and indirect tax provisions which are provisions at 31 December 2015. determined based on managements estimates.
As appropriate, we tested the completeness, accuracy and valuation of the provisions Total direct and indirect tax provisions as follows: at 31 December 2015 were 61 million understood and tested the provision calculation: 2014: 69 million, which is made up of direct tax provisions of 48 million 2014: 54 million read and considered the implications for our audit of relevant correspondence with and indirect tax provisions of 13million tax authorities: 2014: 15 million.
used our tax expertise and our knowledge and experience of developments in the relevant tax jurisdictions to consider the completeness and challenge the basis of the significant provision judgements made by management and in house tax specialists: and utilised our experience of similar situations elsewhere to independently assess the evidence supporting those direct and indirect tax provisions.
This is an area which also requires significant management judgement and has a range of possible outcomes.
However from the evidence we have obtained, we did not identify any material misstatement in the direct and indirect taxation provisions.
We understood key controls around revenue and receivables and performed testing where Revenue recognition appropriate.
Based on the results of our testing of controls, we did not amend our planned Revenue is recognised in accordance with the approach to auditing revenue for the year and associated accrued income on deferred contractual arrangements and is accrued or revenue at year end.
deferred at the balance sheet date, depending on the date of the most recent invoice issued For Power Solutions Utility revenue, we selected a sample of customer contracts and agreed and other specic contractual terms.
that revenue was recognised in line with the contract.
In the Power Solutions Utility business, we We recalculated, on a sample basis, accrued income and deferred revenue and tested the focused on adjustments for the accrual of timing of revenue recognition by tracing back to supporting documentation: for example income and deferral of revenue.
In the Power Solutions Industrial and Rental We also considered accrued income and deferred revenue in the context of our work on Solutions businesses, revenue recognition is contract receivables and associated provisioning.
We analysed accrued income and deferred generally not complex.
As a result, we focused revenue by contract to check that the balances had been appropriately considered in the on non-standard revenue transactions and the overall assessment of contract provisioning.
timing of recognition of transactions around the For Power Solutions Industrial and Rental Solutions revenue, we used revenue data auditing year-end to make sure they were recorded in techniques to provide assurance over standard revenue transactions and to check that the correct financial year.
transactions had been correctly recorded.
This also enabled us to identify and substantively Power Solutions revenues were 943 million test a sample of non-standard transactions by tracing them to appropriate supporting 2014: 961 million andRental Solutions documentation.
We also tested a sample of accrued income and deferred revenue balances revenues were 618 million 2014: 616 million by reference to supporting documentation.
for the year ended 31 December 2015.
For both businesses, our testing also focused on journals posted to revenue.
From the evidence obtained, we found revenue recognition to be in accordance with Aggrekos accounting policies and did not identify any material misstatements.
We assessed the appropriateness of the accounting policy for exceptional items.
Exceptional item: Reorganisation and business priorities costs 26 million We obtained a listing of the exceptional costs incurred by location and tested a sample to As a result of the reorganisation and business supporting documentation.
We also considered whether there were other significant costs priorities review, Aggreko have incurred which should have been included in exceptional items.
26 million of exceptional costs during the year.
We checked the nature of the costs and confirmed they were treated appropriately as We focused on this area because inclusion exceptional items within the income statement.
We reviewed the disclosures in the annual of costs not connected with the restructuring report relating to exceptional items.
within exceptional costs could result in From the audit work performed, we did not identify any material misstatements.
misstatement of the Groups underlying profit.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 105 How we tailored the audit scope The scope of our audit reected the organisational structure of the Group within the two business units of Power Solutions and Rental Solutions.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls and the areas of greatest audit risk.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at each part of the business by the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network rms.
We sent detailed Group instructions to each of those component auditors, in which we identied and explained the areas where we wanted them to focus their work.
We then held meetings and calls with them to clarify and discuss their audit approach, materiality and reporting requirements.
Senior members of the Group audit team visited the component audit team in Houston to direct and supervise their work whilst the team was on site.
We received written reports from each component auditor summarising the final conclusions from their audit work.
Through a combination of full scope audits and directed scope procedures we performed Group audit work in 12 reporting units across the Group which covered 74% of the Groups revenues and 81% of the Groups profit before tax.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was inuenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 12.6 million 2014: 14 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items 2014: 5% of profit before tax Rationale for benchmark applied We have historically applied the benchmark of profit before tax, a generally accepted auditing practice, in the absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be more appropriate.
This year, we excluded exceptional items so that our overall materiality was not impacted by these one off expenses.
We applied a lower materiality to the audit of exceptional items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identied during our audit above 1 million 2014: 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 113, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
106 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements areprepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 99, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced to report.
and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 70 to 71, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the to report.
The Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group and the Company Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors conrmation on page 33 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the We have nothing material to Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including add or to draw attention to.
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing material to or mitigated.
add or to draw attention to.
the Directors explanation on page 33 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the We have nothing material to Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and add or to draw attention to.
why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 107 Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 99, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, andevaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Graham McGregor Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Glasgow 3 March 2016
