Independent auditors report to the members of Amec Foster Wheeler plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: X Amec Foster Wheeler plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended X the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union X the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework X the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation What we have audited Amec Foster Wheeler plcs the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated income statement Balance sheet Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Statement of changes in equity Consolidated balance sheet Related notes 1 to 12 to the financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity Consolidated cash flow statement Related notes 1 to 28 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement X Appropriateness of revenue recognition on contracts and adequacy of contract related provisions X Purchase price allocation adjustments relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler X Goodwill impairment X Impact of tax planning, recognition of deferred tax assets and Research and Development tax credits X Adequacy of legacy liabilities including asbestos and environmental X Risk of fraud and management override X Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 4 components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 24 components X The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 90% of profit before tax adjusted for certain pre-tax exceptional items and 89% of Revenue Materiality X Overall Group materiality of 10m which represents 5% of profit before taxes adjusted for certain pre-tax exceptional items This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheelers annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Amec Foster Wheeler 86 Annual report and accounts 2015 Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Appropriateness of revenue recognition on contracts and adequacy of contract related provisions Refer to the Strategic Report page 19 : the Audit We tested internal financial controls Overall, we are satisfied Committee Report page 59 : Critical accounting over the calculation of revenue, including that Amec Foster Wheelers policies and the use of judgments, estimates and those used to determine the percentage accounting policy for assumptions page 105 and Note 3 of the Group of completion for fixed price contracts.
revenue recognition and financial statements.
contract related provisions For a sample of contracts, we challenged are reasonable and For the year ended 31 December 2015, and as management in respect of the have been appropriately reasonableness of judgements made detailed in Note 3, revenue recorded in the year applied.
regarding the cost to complete estimate, the contract risk provisions at timing of the recognition of variation orders We focused on this area because there is a risk that 31 December 2015 is within and the appropriateness of assumptions due to the complexity associated with accounting an acceptable range.
made in estimating warranty provisions.
for long term contracts and the judgements involved in determining contract provisions, Amec Foster We have also challenged managements Wheelers financial statements could be misstated.
assessment of the adequacy of contingency provisions against contract specific risks Specific risks over revenue recognition include and their assessments around the potential inappropriate percentage of completion accounting, for liquidated damages for projects with incorrect recognition of variation orders and delays.
For those contracts subject to inappropriate accounting for contract contingencies.
claims, we have made enquires of internal Specific risks over contract related provisions and external legal counsel.
include unrecorded liabilities for contractual We have challenged the recoverabiltiy of disputes and inappropriate application of aged work in progress and receivables and the Groups policy for aged work in progress assessed whether the Groups accouting and receivables.
policy has been appropriately applied.
The magnitude of the risk i. e. the likelihood of We have assessed whether managements occurrence and the size of an error should it occur policies and processes for making these is consistent with the prior year.
estimates are appropriate, in accordance with IAS 37 and consistently applied.
Purchase price allocation adjustments relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 60 : We tested internal financial controls The fair values of the assets Critical accounting policies and the use of over the identification of adjustments and liabilities recognised judgments, estimates and assumptions page 105 to be made to the provisional fair value on the acquisition of and Note 24 of the Group financial statements.
accounting of assets and liabilities Foster Wheeler have acquired with Foster Wheeler.
We also been measured within We focused on this area given the judgements tested controls in place over the an acceptable range.
involved in making final adjustments to calculation of the final adjustments.
the provisional fair values of assets and liabilities acquired.
We challenged management over the assumptions and valuation techniques These judgements include determination of used in calculating the adjustments made whether the circumstance which gave rise to the to the provisional valuation of assets final adjustment existed at the acquisition date and and liabilities acquired.
This included also whether the valuation methodology applied in corroborating the valuation to external making the adjustment is reasonable.
sources such as settlement agreements The magnitude of the risk i. e. the likelihood of as applicable.
occurrence and the size of an error should it occur We gained an understanding of the is higher than in the prior year.
situation relating to each adjustment at the time of the acquisition to assess their appropriateness.
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheelers annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 87 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report to the members of Amec Foster Wheeler plc continued Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Goodwill impairment Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 60 : We tested internal financial controls for The impairment recognised Critical accounting policies and the use of the goodwill impairment process including in respect of the goodwill judgments, estimates and assumptions page 106 the determination of assumptions used allocated to GPG has been and Note 12 of the Group financial statements.
within the models to assess the recoverable appropriately determined.
The total carrying value of goodwill at the year end The carrying value is 2.2bn.
This is following an impairment of 308m We tested the integrity of the models of goodwill post the which has been recorded in the Global Power Group and challenged the appropriateness of impairment recorded at the year end is appropriate.
An impairment has arisen as the cash generating units determined the recoverable amount of GPG was less than the by management.
We challenged carrying value of the investment.
the assumptions used in respect of forecast growth rates and involved our We focused on this area given the significant valuation specialists to corroborate the judgements and complexity of valuation appropriateness of the discount and growth methodologies used to determine whether the rates used.
We have evaluated the profit carrying value of goodwill is appropriate.
These forecasts used within the models against include the determination of the cash generating current trading conditions and challenged units used to assess goodwill for impairment, the management on the key assumptions allocation of goodwill to cash generating units and underpinning the forecasts.
This included the assumptions used within models to support stress testing the models, to determine the the recoverable amount of goodwill.
degree to which the assumptions would The magnitude of the risk i. e. the likelihood of need to move before an impairment would occurrence and the size of an error should it occur be triggered.
is higher than in the prior year Impact of tax planning, recognition of deferred tax assets and research and development tax credits Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 60 and We tested internal financial controls over We are satisfied that the Notes 8 and 15 of the Group financial statements.
the determination of tax risk provisions.
provisions recorded in We also tested internal financial controls respect of tax risks are We focused on the risk arising from tax planning over the recognition of deferred tax and within an acceptable range.
given the significant judgements involved in research and development assets.
assessing uncertain tax positions including those The carrying value of assets relating to the financing structures the Group has We challenged tax exposures estimated relating to deferred tax and in place in Canada and the United States.
Using our tax experts, research and development we evaluated the risk analysis associated tax credits are within an We focus on the recognition of certain deferred with these exposures along with claims or acceptable range at the tax assets and assets relating to research and assessments made by tax authorities to year end.
development credits as both these areas involve date.
We have also reviewed documentation judgement in the assessment of the recoverability in relation to tax audits to ensure that any of the associated tax asset.
This includes exposures the tax authorities are raising assessment of the period over which taxable have been considered and provided for profits will be available to utilise the assets against.
The magnitude of the risk i. e. the likelihood of We have challenged the profit forecasts occurrence and the size of an error should it occur used by management in determining the is consistent with the prior year.
period over which deferred tax assets and assets held in respect of research and development tax credits will be recovered.
We have also assessed if managements rationale over the length of time such assets will be recovered, is reasonable.
We have evaluated the historical accuracy of forecasting taxable profits and the integrity of the models used.
Amec Foster Wheeler 88 Annual report and accounts 2015 Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Adequacy of legacy liabilities including asbestos and environmental Refer to the Strategic Report page 21, the Audit We tested internal financial controls over The valuation of legacy Committee Report page 60 : Critical accounting the appropriate valuation of liabilities.
We liabilities including asbestos policies and the use of judgments, estimates and assessed the judgements and accounting and environmental liabilities assumptions page 105 and Note 21 of the Group treatments made by management arising at 31 December 2015 is financial statements.
from contractual disputes and other within an acceptable range.
We performed audit procedures on The Group has risk relating to claims or potential The disclosures made supporting calculations and assumptions.
claims resulting from the disposal of businesses in respect to contingent in previous years and those relating to asbestos Where appropriate, we have held liabilities are appropriate.
discussions with managements legal Total provisions relating to legacy businesses experts and also obtained and considered at the year end are 124m, asbestos 378m legal letters from external counsel and and environmental 44m.
We focused on this area, as determining the impact We have engaged our own actuarial and likely outcome of any litigation matters requires specialists to support our audit procedures significant judgement.
There is also a risk that in respect of asbestos liabilities.
These provisions are not made for claims which have procedures include assessment of the been received.
The magnitude of the risk i. e. the likelihood of occurrence and the size of an error should it occur is consistent with the prior year.
Risk of fraud and management override The risk of fraud exists in any business.
However, We considered Transparency Internationals We have taken into account fraud involving the manipulation of results to achieve Corruption Perception Index 2014 Transparency Internationals performance targets are particularly harmful when performing our scoping exercise.
Corruption Perception Index to shareholder value and the current economic Components with significant operations in 2014 when preforming our environment has increased their risk of occurrence.
countries which are high on the Index have scoping exercise.
been included in our in scope components.
The evolution of the business and geographical As a result of procedures footprint across new territories heightens the risk of We have tested entity level controls over performed, we did not find fraud and bribery and corruption.
Business practice the implementation of Group wide policies any evidence of material in emerging markets may expose Amec Foster and procedures.
management override or Wheeler to financial, legal and reputational risk.
We performed audit procedures including The risk of fraud and management override could analytical review and journal entry testing involve the manipulation of results to achieve in order to identify and address the risk performance targets or asset misappropriation, of management override of controls.
We particularly involving third party suppliers who designed testing procedures and thresholds may overbill for goods or services and facilitation for all balances in such a way as to ensure payments to secure business.
that the risk of fraud and error is mitigated.
The magnitude of the risk i. e. the likelihood of We challenged and corroborated the occurrence and the size of an error should it occur basis of managements key estimates, is consistent with the prior year.
such as those made in determining trading provisions.
In addition to the risks identified as part of our audit planning, the size of and judgement involved in determining the Groups exceptional items affected the allocation of resources and the direction of our audit efforts and for which our audit response was as follows: This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheelers annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 89 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report to the members of Amec Foster Wheeler plc continued Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Presentation of exceptional items Amec Foster Wheeler consider the separate We have tested controls in place over the Overall, the disclosure of reporting of exceptional costs helps to provide determination of items to be recorded exceptional items are in a better indication of the Groups underlying as exceptional.
accordance with the Groups business performance.
disclosed accounting We have challenged management over policy for exceptional Continuing pre-tax exceptional costs including whether the costs which have been items and is in accordance impairment and amortisation recorded in the recorded as exceptional are recorded in with the requirements current year are 559m 2014: 156m.
line with the Groups policy and have been of IAS 1, Presentation appropriately excluded from trading profit.
There is judgement in determining whether the of Financial Statements.
In particular, we have challenged whether classification and measurement of items presented the inclusion of internal labour costs on the as exceptional is reasonable.
There is also a risk basis of time spent on integration activities that the Groups policy for such items is not is reasonable and whether the inclusion of applied consistently.
We have considered the Financial Reporting Council FRC guidance on items being reported as exceptional.
We have assessed whether the level of disclosure provided in the financial statements appropriately reflects the assessment made by management in determining the classification of such items as exceptional.
The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Group Internal Audit result findings when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements we selected 28 components covering entities within UK, US, Canada, Italy, China, Australia and Singapore, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
The Primary Team performs audit procedures on those areas of accounting performed centrally such as goodwill and intangible asset impairment reviews and consolidation adjustments.
Of the 28 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 4 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 24 components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The audit risks disclosed above were subject to full scope audit procedures as appropriate.
The reporting components where we performed full and specific audit procedures accounted for 90% 2014: 90% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for certain pre-tax exceptional items and 89% 2014: 92% of the Groups Revenue.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 59% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for certain pre-tax exceptional items and 69% of the Groups Revenue.
The specific scope component contributed 31% of the profit before tax adjusted for certain pre-tax exceptional items used to calculate materiality and 20% of the Groups Revenue.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of risks tested for the Group.
Of the remaining components that together represent 10% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for certain pre-tax exceptional items, none are individually greater than 5% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Amec Foster Wheeler 90 Annual report and accounts 2015 The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
Profit before tax adjusted for Revenue 10 11 certain pre-tax exceptional items % 31 % Full scope components 20 Full scope components Specific scope components Specific scope components Other procedures Other procedures 69 59 Changes from the prior year The basis of our audit scoping has changed in the current year following a change to the Groups internal reporting structure.
Our audit coverage in 2015 is consistent with that of 2014.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 4 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 1 of these directly by the primary audit team and 3 by component teams.
For the 24 specific scope components, where the work was primarily performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits each of the key locations at both the interim and year end stages of the audit process.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the primary audit team to the component teams in Canada, the United States and various sites in the UK, including some specific scope locations.
These visits involved co-developing the significant risk area audit approach, reviewing key local working papers and conclusions, meeting with local and regional leadership team, getting an understanding of key control processes including centralised entity level control processes and attending closing meetings.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, attended all full scope and certain specific scope closing meetings in person and all other specific scope close meetings via conference call, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 10 million 2014: 14.4 million, which is 5% 2014: 5% of profit before tax adjusted for certain pre-tax exceptional items.
We believe that profit before tax, adjusted for the items, as described below, provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
Detailed audit procedures are performed on material exceptional items.
Starting basis X 235 m X Loss before tax Adjustments X 429m X Adjust for certain pre tax exceptional items to determine adjusted profit before tax X Materiality Totals 194m X Materiality of 10m 5% of materiality basis This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheelers annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 91 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report to the members of Amec Foster Wheeler plc continued Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment and other qualitative considerations, our judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance was 50% 2014: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 5m 2014: 7.2m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage to ensure that the total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 1m to 4m 2014: 1m to 7m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements is considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.5m 2014: 0.5m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 85, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: X the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 X the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheelers annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Amec Foster Wheeler 92 Annual report and accounts 2015 Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report is: X materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or X apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or X otherwise misleading In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
We have no exceptions to report.
Companies Act 2006 reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: X adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or X the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or X certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or X we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit We have no exceptions to report.
Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: X the directors statement in relation to going concern set out on page 37 and longer-term viability set out on page 21 X the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review We have no exceptions to report.
Statement on the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: X the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity X the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated X the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements X the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Colin Brown Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 10 March 2016 This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheelers annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 93 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
