FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT  We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Opinion on financial statements of Anglo American plc In our opinion: the directors confirmation on page 40 that they have carried out arobustassessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups thosethat would threaten its business model, future performance, and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the solvencyorliquidity: Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance the disclosures on pages 41 to 45 that describe those risks and explainhow with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the they are being managed or mitigated: European Union: the directors statement in note 39 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in ofaccounting in preparing them and their identification of any material accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the the directors explanation on page 40 as to how they have assessed the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income statement, the they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated statement of assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any changes in equity, the accounting policies, the related notes 1to40 and the necessary qualifications or assumptions.
balance sheet of the Parent Company and related information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and isnot a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Independence Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group Going concern and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting non-audit services referred to in those standards.
contained within note 39 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the strategic report on page 40.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: The Audit Committee has requested that while not required under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we include in our report any significant key observations in respect of these assessed risks of material misstatement.
Risk How the scope of our  Findings Impairments notes 1 and 6 As a consequence of the current volatility in current We challenged managements assessment as to whether We concluded that the commodity prices and foreign exchange rates, the indicators of impairment exist for specific assets specifically in assumptions had been assessment of the recoverable amount of operating relation to the platinum, coal and Sishen Mine operations and the determined and applied on assets and development projects in particular is a Minas-Rio project.
On the basis that such indicators were aconsistent basis across the key judgement.
identified we obtained copies of the valuation models used to Group and no additional determine the value in use or fair value less costs of disposal of impairments were identified This includes specifically the platinum operations the relevant asset.
where a post-tax impairment of $0.6 billion has been recorded, the coal operations where a We challenged the assumptions made by management in We found that the impairments post-tax impairment of $1.0 billion has been relation to these models, including the discount rate used, the recorded at the platinum, coal recorded, the Sishen mine where a post-tax short-term and long-term commodity prices, capital expenditure and Sishen mine operations and impairment of $0.4 billion has been recorded and and operating cost forecasts and the expected production the Minas-Rio project were atthe Minas-Rio project within the Iron Ore Brazil profiles, by comparison to recent analyst forecast commodity primarily due to reduced business unit where a post-tax impairment of price data, reference to third party documentation where commodity prices, but this effect $2.9billion has been recorded.
available, utilisation of Deloitte valuation specialists, review of was partially offset by forecast Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources reports, consultation with exchange rate movements and operational management and consideration of sensitivity targeted reductions in forecast analyses.
We assessed whether the assumptions had been determined and applied on a consistent basis across theGroup.
110 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Risk How the scope of our  Findings Taxation notes 1, 8 and 21 The assessment of the Groups taxation exposures We reviewed all potential taxation exposures within the Group We are satisfied that the in all jurisdictions is a key area of judgement and, through discussions with the Groups taxation department, provisions raised inrespect of particularly with respect to transfer pricing the tax specialists within the audit team and review ofrelevant theGroups potential taxation arrangements and the appropriateness of the documentation, we assessed the appropriateness of the exposures are appropriate.
recognition of tax provisions and deferred provisions raised.
We considered, in the context of our tax specialists prior experience of similar issues and the legal advice received by the Group, the Groups transfer pricing arrangements to confirm that they are reasonable and the Groups deferred taxation assets and liabilities to confirm they are appropriate.
Corporate asset transactions notes 29 and 30 In light of announced developments in the strategy For the sales of Anglo American Norte and the Tarmac We are satisfied that the asset ofthe Group it is anticipated that the volume and businesses completed in the year, we reviewed the sales and disposals that completed in materiality of asset disposals will continue to purchase agreements to confirm that control had passed to the 2015have been accounted for increase in significance.
buyer prior to 31 December 2015 and to recalculate any profit correctly, with appropriate orloss on disposal.
The appropriate accounting treatment of corporate asset disposals which have either completed during For those asset sales where agreements had been signed, for For all other planned asset sales the year or which are on-going at 31 December 2015 example at Rustenburg, but not completed or where the sales we are satisfied that only where is a key area of judgment specifically in respect of process was ongoing, we considered whether the criteria of the criteria have been met have assessing the point at which control is transferred IFRS5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued the disposals been accounted for, from the seller to the buyer and the calculation of any Operations had been met and in particular whether the sale anddisclosed as, held for sale profit or loss on disposal.
could be considered as highly probable to complete within the inaccordance with IFRS 5. next twelve months.
In 2015 this includes specifically the sale of Anglo American Norte pre-tax loss on disposal of Our work included particular focus on whether the conditions $287million and the Tarmac businesses pre-tax precedent for a sale to complete included conditions outside of loss on disposal of $172million which completed managements control such as government approvals.
in2015, aswell as thestatus of the announced sale ofRustenburg.
Special items and remeasurements note 6 The assessment of the appropriateness of items In the context of our review of the overall income statement we We are satisfied that all items disclosed within special items and remeasurements considered and challenged each item disclosed within special included within special items and is a key judgement because oftheir impact upon the items and remeasurements as defined in note 6 to the financial remeasurements display no underlying financial performance achieved by statements.
indication of management bias in theGroup.
the categorisation and that where We determined whether such categorisation is appropriate and relevant the categorisation was consistent with the Groups stated policy and past practice for consistent with prior practice.
recognition of such items, and whether, taken as a whole, the income statement is fair and balanced in its presentation.
We consider that the related disclosures are also appropriate.
The only change to the assessed risks of material misstatement that we report in 2015 has been the addition of corporate asset transactions.
This risk has been included in our audit report for 2015 as a consequence of the increased scale of ongoing and planned divestment activity across the group consequent to developments in the groups strategy in 2015.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 40.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT  Our application of materiality Matters on which we are required to report by exception We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use opinion: materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our results of our work.
audit: or We determined planning materiality for the Group to be $200 million adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, 2014:$225 million, which is below 5% 2014: 5% of the normalised three orreturns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not year pre-tax profit before special items and remeasurements, and below 1% visited by us: or 2014: 1% of equity.
the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the The use of a normalised three year average pre-tax profit is a change to our accounting records and returns.
approach last year, when materiality was based on the normalised 2014 We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
This change of approach was determined to be appropriate given the current volatility in commodity prices and their impact on current Directors remuneration year performance and the cyclical nature of the mining industry.
Consistent Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion with the prior year, normalised pre-tax profit excludes special items including certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part impairments, remeasurements and other one off items that are audited of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with separately and would, if included, significantly distort the materiality the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from calculation year on year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee Corporate Governance Statement all known audit differences in excess of $10 million 2014: $10 million, as well Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to judgements in the financial statement that we identified when assessing the report arising from our review.
overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required An overview of the scope of our audit to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial misstatement.
statements: or All business units were subject to a full scope audit with the exception of apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our Manganese where specific audit procedures were performed.
The work knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or performed by the component audit teams at each business unit is guided by otherwise misleading.
the Group audit team and is executed at levels of materiality applicable to In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the from $80 million to $110 million.
directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and The Senior Statutory Auditor and or a senior member of the Group audit team understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those visits the principal location of each significant business unit at least once matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider every year and key operational assets on a rotating basis.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act2006 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
consistent with the financial statements.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
112 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Kari Hale Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 15 February 2016 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 113
