Independent auditors report to the members of Antofagasta plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion What we have audited In our opinion: The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: Antofagasta plcs group financial statements and Parent Company the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015: financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair the Balance Sheet of the Parent Company as at 31 December 2015: view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated asat 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: then ended: the parent company financial statements have been properly the Statement of changes in equity of the Parent Company: and prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary Accounting Practice: and ofsignificant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally AcceptedAccounting Practice.
Our audit approach Context and consequently the Twin Metals exploration project.
The Michilla The context for our audit was set by Antofagastas major activities in mine, which had reached the end of its mine life, was placed on care 2015, against a backdrop of a significant fall in spot commodity prices, and maintenance in December.
At year end, the Antucoya mine was along with a number of changes in the composition of the Group.
still being commissioned, and commercial production is expected to Antofagasta is one of the largest copper producers in the world, commence in the first half of 2016.
Away from its mining operations, operating up to five mines in Chile, and its earnings were impacted the Group also exited the water business in May, selling its entire by the fall in copper prices during the year.
In the year, Antofagasta interest in Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. ADASA, and completed acquired a 50% interest in the Zaldvar mine and became the operator the disposal of its transport operation in Bolivia, Empresa Ferroviaria of this joint venture, in addition to acquiring 100% of Duluth Metals Andina S. A. FCA.
Overview Overall group materiality: $65 million which represents 5% of three-year average of profit before tax adjusted forone-off items.
Materiality We identified the three mine sites, Los Pelambres, Centinela and Antucoya, which in our view, required an audit oftheir complete financial information.
We conducted other audit procedures over the recently acquired Zaldvar mine and at the corporate offices in London and Chile.
Audit scope Taken together, the locations and functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 91% of revenue and approximately 76% of absolute adjusted profit before tax ie the sum of the numerical values without regard towhether they were profits or losses for the relevant locations and functions.
Areas of focus Impairment assessments at Antucoya and Centinela.
Accounting for the acquisition of Zaldvar.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an involved making assumptions and considering future events that are opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the make on the results of our procedures should beread in this context.
risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
118 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW S S ST T TR R RA A AT T TE E EGI GI GIC C C RE RE REP P PO O OR R RT T T GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E F F FIIIN N NA A AN N NC C CIIIA A AL L L S S ST T TA A AT T TE E EM M MENTS ENTS ENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We considered the Directors impairment trigger analysis and agree that impairment indicators existed Impairment assessments at Antucoya atAntucoya and Centinela, and that these were the appropriate CGUs for impairment testing purposes.
and Centinela In accordance with IAS 16 Property, plant and We evaluated the Directors future cash flow forecasts, and the process by which they were drawn up, including verifying the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow models and agreeing future capital and operating equipment the Directors are required to perform areview for impairment of long-lived assets at any expenditure to the latest Board approved budgets and the latest approved Life of Mine plans.
We assessed the reasonableness of the Directors future capital and operating expenses in light of their historical accuracy and time an indicator of impairment exists.
the current operational results and concluded the forecasts had been appropriately prepared, notwithstanding The Directors identified that impairment indicators that Antucoya has no operational history and the operating parameters are based on the feasibility study existed at Antucoya and Centinela, as both mines are adjusted for the latest expectations.
heavily leveraged to movements in copper prices.
For each CGU, utilising our valuation experts, we evaluated the appropriateness of key market related The Directors identified that the Antucoya and assumptions in the Directors valuation models, including the copper prices, discount rates, foreign currency Centinela Cash Generating Units CGUs had exchange rates and acid prices.
We noted that the margin of recoverable amount above carrying value for a carrying value of $1,660 and $3,870 million bothCGUs was particularly sensitive to changes in long-term copper price and discount rate assumptions.
The recoverable We formed an independent view of the copper price that a market participant might use in a fair value less amounts calculated by the directors were in excess of the carrying values, and accordingly, no impairment costto dispose scenario.
We found that the Directors long-term copper price assumption $3.00 lb was atthehigher end of a reasonable range.
The determination of recoverable amount was based We independently calculated a weighted average cost of capital by making reference to market data, andconsidered the CGU specific risks.
The discount rate used by the Directors of 8% fell at the lower on the higher of value-in-use and fair value less costs to dispose FVLCD, which requires judgement on endofwhat we calculated asareasonable range.
the part of the directors in valuing the relevant CGUs.
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions within the cash flow forecasts using a range of As a value-in-use methodology does not permit higher discount rates and lower long term copper prices and there was no impairment.
Having done so, whilst we agreed with the directors conclusion, we found that a reasonably plausible downside scenario, within our future expansion or optimisation plans to be included within the discounted cash flow model, the reasonable range, would result in an impairment of both CGUs.
Directors have used a FVLCD valuation methodology In light of the above, we reviewed the appropriateness of the related disclosures in Note 15 of the financial to determine the recoverable amount, applying statements, including the sensitivities provided with respect to the relevant CGUs, and concluded they assumptions that a market participant would use were appropriate.
The Directors determined that based on the respective rights and obligations of each investor, Zaldvar was Accounting for the acquisition jointly controlled and should be equity accounted as a joint venture.
We examined the terms of the sale and joint of Zaldvar venture agreements and considered the substantive rights of the investors over the relevant activities of the The acquisition of Zaldvar presents a number of investee and determined that equity accounting was appropriate.
complex accounting judgements in respect of the The Group engaged an independent valuation expert to perform the purchase price allocation exercise and assessment of whether the Group controls or jointly controls the business, along with whether the weassessed the competency and objectivity of the expert, and the scope of their work.
business is a joint venture or joint arrangement.
We read the experts report and discussed with the expert their valuation methodology for each category Business combinations accounted for under IFRS 3 ofasset and liability, along with the key judgements, including copper prices and discount rates, they made indetermining the fair values.
We determined that the methods used by the Directors expert were appropriate Business Combinations are inherently complex, requiring the directors to perform a purchase price and the fair values appeared reasonable based on the judgements made.
allocation exercise to fair value the assets and The Group has disclosed that the purchase price allocation remains provisional as the final working capital true liabilities of the acquired business.
In determining up has not been agreed with the vendor and further adjustment to the consideration, or the allocation to assets the purchase price allocation the Directors engaged and liabilities, could result.
As Zaldvar was acquired on 1 December 2015, there was limited time to conduct We concurred with the Directors experts assessment of the provisional purchase price allocation and the this exercise and in particular, the working capital appropriateness of the related disclosures in Note 17 of the financial statements.
All of the above operations are located in Chile.
In addition, the How we tailored the audit scope Group has corporate head offices located in both Santiago, Chile We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed Antofagasta Minerals and London, UK Antofagasta plc.
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the type of work that needed to be performed at each of the three the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the mine sites and the corporate offices in Chile, by us, as the Group Group operates.
As part of our planning for the audit, we reviewed engagement team and by component auditors from PwC Chile the predecessor auditors working papers.
Los Pelambres and Centinela were The core mining business consists of five assets: Los Pelambres considered to be financially significant components of the Group, due and Centinela, which are the main operating assets: Antucoya, to their contribution towards Group profit before tax, and sorequired which is under construction: Michilla, which was placed on care audits of their complete financial information.
Antucoya and maintenance in December 2015: and Zaldvar, a joint venture was also subject to an audit of its complete financial information, with Barrick Gold Corporation.
Centinela consists of the combined inresponse to the risk of impairment to its carrying value.
El Tesoro and Esperanza assets.
The Group acquired its interest in We also requested that component auditors perform specified Zaldvar in December 2015, and is now the operator of this asset.
procedures over the recently acquired Zaldvar mine, the corporate The Groups non-core divisions consist of: a transport operation, offices in Chile, and specific line items of other entities within the Ferrocarril Antofagasta a Bolivia and a water business, Aguas fide Group to ensure that we had sufficient coverage from ouraudit work Antofagasta.
The water business was sold in May 2015 and as such for each line of the Groups financial statements.
its results for the period are presented as discontinued operations.
Antofagasta plc 119 Independent auditors report to the members of Antofagasta plc Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined Going concern the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work to Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence Statement, set out on page 114, in relation to going concern.
had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial We havenothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we A UK senior manager was seconded to PwC Chile to be an integral have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the part of the team.
In addition the Senior Statutory Auditor visited Directors Statement about whether they considered it appropriate to Chile three times, including two mine sites, and attended key adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
audit meetings with our component auditors and management.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
The Group team also reviewed the component auditor working papers, attended local audit clearance meetings, andreviewed other As noted in the Directors Statement, the Directors have concluded forms of communications dealing with significant accounting and that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing auditing issues.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least Materiality one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
However, because not all future events These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a ofour audit procedures on the individual financial statement line going concern.
itemsand disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Other required reporting Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality Consistency of other information forthe financial statements as a whole as follows: Companies Act 2006 opinion Overall Group $65 million 2014 $75 million.
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and materiality the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial How we 5% of three-year average of profit before tax adjusted for statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
determinedit one-off items, primarily the profit ondisposal of ADASA.
Rationale for We believe that profit before tax is the primary measure ISAs UK & Ireland reporting benchmark applied in assessing the performance of the Group, and is a Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, generally accepted auditing benchmark.
We used a inour opinion: three-year average due to the impact on profit before tax of the inherent volatility in copper commodity prices, and information in the Annual Report is: We have no adjusted for one-off items to eliminate the volatility that exceptions they introduce.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited to report.
Component For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a financial statements: or materiality materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially The range of materiality allocated across components inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent wasbetween $60million and $40 million.
Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report otherwise misleading.
to themmisstatements identified during our audit above $3 million the statement given by the Directors on page 114, in accordance We have no with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code exceptions 2014 $1.25 million as well as misstatements below that amount the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a to report.
that, inour view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
whole tobe fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model andstrategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course ofperformingour audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 86, as required by We have no provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Auditand exceptions Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters to report.
communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
120 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW S S ST T TR R RA A AT T TE E EGI GI GIC C C RE RE REP P PO O OR R RT T T GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E F F FIIIN N NA A AN N NC C CIIIA A AL L L S S ST T TA A AT T TE E EM M MENTS ENTS ENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of Responsibilities for the financial statements the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity and the audit of the Group Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 116, the Directors are responsible for the preparation the Directors confirmation on page 35 of the Annual Report, We have nothing of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have material to add and fair view.
carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing or to draw the group, including those that would threaten its business attention to.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks We have nothing Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
material to add Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only the Directors explanation on page 116 of the Annual Report, We have nothing for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how material to add Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what or to draw purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume period they have done so and why they consider that period attention to.
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications What an audit of financial statements involves or assumptions.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group assurance that the financial statements are free from material and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their anassessment of: statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently We havenothing to report having performed our review.
applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Adequacy of accounting records and information and bythe directors: and explanations received the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, inour opinion: We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming we have not received all the information and explanations we our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the require for our audit: or financial statements.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent We test and examine information, using sampling and other company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide from branches not visited by us: or a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement procedures or a combination of both.
with the accounting records and returns.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is Directors remuneration apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the orinconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Jason Burkitt Senior Statutory Auditor inour opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified for and on behalf of  LLP by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors this responsibility.
London 14 March 2016 Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions ofthe Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
