Directors Report continued Post-balance sheet events 2015 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 10.00 am on 21 July 2015 There have been no balance sheet events that either require adjustment to the financial statements or are important in the at AO Park, 5A The Parklands, Lostock, Bolton BL6 4SD.
The Notice of Meeting which sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the understanding of the Companys current position.
forthcoming AGM is enclosed with this Annual Report.
The Notice specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy Research and development Innovation, specifically in IT, is a critical element of AOs strategy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes will be counted and the numbers for, against or and therefore to the future success of the Group.
Accordingly, the majority of the Groups research and development expenditure is withheld in relation to each resolution will be announced at the Annual General Meeting and published on the Companys website.
predominantly related to the Groups IT systems.
Interests in voting rights Indemnities and insurance The Company maintains appropriate insurance to cover Directors At the date of this report the Company had been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and and Officers liability for itself and its subsidiaries.
The Company also indemnifies the Directors under an indemnity, in the case of the Transparency Rules, of the following significant interests: Non-Executive Directors in their respective letters of appointment and Percentage of in the case of the Executive Directors in a separate deed of indemnity.
Number of voting rights Such indemnities contain provisions that are permitted by the director ordinary over ordinary liability provisions of the Companies Act and the Companys Articles.
shares voting shares of Shareholder rights notified 0.25p each Environmental John Roberts 110,387,235 26.22% Information on the Groups greenhouse gas emissions is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on page 33 and forms part of Steve Caunce 52,556,382 12.48% this report by reference.
Baron Capital Group, Inc, BAMCO, Baron Capital Management & 42,053,701 Political donations Ronald Baron 38,049,298 9.04% During the year, no political donations were made.
Generation Investment Management LLP 24,189,418 5.74% External branches Odey Asset Management LLP 23,911,376 5.68% As part of its strategy on international expansion, the Group established a branch in Germany on 18 July 2014 via its subsidiary plus contracts for difference AODeutschland Limited, registered in Elsdorf.
18,560,000 Going concern Julie Holroyd 22,687,476 5.39% The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely The London & Amsterdam Trust to affect its future development, performance and position are set Company Ltd 22,320,000 5.30% out in the Strategic Report on pages 12 to 41.
The financial position Chris Hopkinson 21,850,713 5.19% of the Company and its cash flows are described in the CFO COOs Performance Review on pages 36 to 39.
In addition, the notes to the N K Stoller 17,629,098 4.20% financial statements include the Companys policies and processes Maverick Capital, Ltd 13,954,502 for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: total return details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its swap no exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
voting rights 3.31% The Company continues to have considerable financial resources Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 13,046,819 3.10% following the issue of new shares as part of the IPO in March 2014: combined with this it has strong free cash flow generation and low Results and dividends capital expenditure requirements, deals with a range of suppliers The Groups and Companys audited financial statements for the year with which it has good relations and has no economic dependence are set out on pages 78 to 107. on particular customers.
No dividend was paid by the Company during the year to 31 March 2015.
In making their assessment of going concern, the Directors considered the Board-approved budget, the three-year rolling financial plan and cash-flow forecast.
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group as a whole have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 70 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Financial instruments Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the entity to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk, are given on pages 96 financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are to 99 in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection Independent Auditor The Companys Auditor, Deloitte LLP, have indicated their willingness of fraud and other irregularities.
to continue their role as the Companys Auditor.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company and to authorise The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys the Board to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the 2015 AGM.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Disclosure of information to Auditor in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors has confirmed that: i So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and ii The Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of as a Director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole.
The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Directors responsibilities statement that they face.
The Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements business model and strategy.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with This statement has been given in accordance with IFRS accounting standards.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Julie Finnemore Company Secretary of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires AO World Plc 2 June 2015 that Directors: Properly select and apply accounting policies: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 72 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 Our Results We see the financials as the output of everything else we do.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73
