Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Ashtead Group plc OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SEPARATE OPINION IN RELATION TO IFRS OF ASHTEAD GROUP PLC AS ISSUED BY THE IASB In our opinion: As explained in Note 2 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRS as adopted by the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRS as issued by the Groups and the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2015 and of the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the IASB.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared GOING CONCERN in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act statement on page 68 that the Group is a going concern.
2006: and We confirm that: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
appropriate: and The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated concern.
and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, and Company Cash Flow Statements, and the related notes 1 to 32. this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their as a going concern.
preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those th at had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the key controls Carrying value of rental fleet over the impairment review.
As set out in Note 13, the Group holds 3.6bn of rental fleet at cost 2.5bn net book value.
We have considered managements impairment analysis, understood and challenged the key judgements and sensitivities and the impact that each of these have in determining There is a risk that the judgements made by whether an impairment exists.
management around the annual impairment review of the Groups rental fleet are not In particular we focused our analysis on returns on investment by asset class, fleet appropriate and that the carrying value of utilisation, profits and losses on asset disposals, depreciation rates and residual values.
We tested the key metrics noted, including asset utilisation statistics and profit on disposal.
We also confirmed that the accounting for the rental fleet and associated disclosures were in line with the Groups accounting policies.
Carrying value of goodwill We have assessed the Groups current and forecast performance and considered As set out in Note 14, the Group carries goodwill whether any other factors exist that would suggest the goodwill is impaired.
We have of 516m on its balance sheet.
Management performed the following procedures: performs an annual impairment review challenged managements identification of eight CGUs against our understanding of of goodwill.
the business and the definition as set out in the accounting standards: There is a risk that the judgements used in this, assessed the appropriateness of the calculation of the value in use of each CGU and such as forecast cash flows, discount rates and the associated headroom, performing recalculations to test the mechanical accuracy growth rates are inappropriate and that goodwill of those amounts: is overstated.
forecast inputs and growth assumptions were compared against historical trends to assess the reliability of managements forecast, in addition to comparing forecast In addition, the Group increased the number assumptions to external market analysis: of CGUs from two to eight for the purpose of with the assistance of specialists, we recalculated the discount rate applied to the assessing whether the goodwill is impaired.
future cash flows and benchmarked this against other companies in the industry: and performed sensitivity analysis.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 71 Independent auditors report to the members of Ashtead Group plc continued RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK Accounting for acquisitions We have challenged the key assumptions made by management in accounting for the There is risk that the acquisition accounting acquisitions including: for the 21 acquisitions made in the year, as set a review of the asset purchase agreements to determine whether the appropriate out in Note 26, has not been correctly applied.
intangible assets have been identified and that no unusual terms exist that have Specifically, there is a risk that incorrect not been accounted for: judgements are made which results in testing the valuation and accounting for consideration payable.
Testing contingent the inaccurate allocation of values to consideration calculations, assessing whether any consideration may actually acquired intangibles.
represent post-acquisition remuneration and tracing payments made to We also consider the valuation of contingent bank statements: consideration to be a risk, given the the identification and fair valuation of the assets and liabilities the Group acquired judgement involved.
including any fair value adjustments: and valuation assumptions such as discount, tax and royalty rates by reviewing assumptions used in such calculations and recalculating using external evidence.
In doing so we have involved Deloitte valuation specialists to assist with considering the appropriateness of the discount rate.
We have reviewed the acquisition accounting and respective disclosures made in the financial statements.
Revenue recognition We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of controls over the There is a risk that earned not billed and billed revenue cycle.
not earned revenue is incorrectly calculated or We have focused our substantive testing on the earned not billed and billed not recorded in the wrong period.
In doing so we have reviewed managements methodology, We also consider there to be a risk that rebates traced the information in the reports back to invoices, remittances and credit notes payable to customers are omitted or recorded at as a substantive sample, performed analytical procedures over movements in the an incorrect amount.
period and assessed the historical accuracy of managements estimations using a look-back approach.
We have also tested the calculations for rebates recorded for a sample of customers and circularised other customers to understand if further rebates should be recorded.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group pages 49 and 50. and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Audit work Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the to respond to the risks of material misstatement consisted of a context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to combination of the work performed by component teams in the US express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion and UK, and the Group audit team in London.
on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these The Group is comprised of three principal locations: the Head Office individual matters.
in London: A-Plant in Warrington, UK: and Sunbelt in Charlotte, North Carolina, US.
The Group audit team performed a full-scope OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY audit of the Head Office and local component audit teams performed We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the full-scope audits at both A-Plant and Sunbelt.
These three locations financial statements that makes it probable that the economic represent 100% of the Groups revenue, profit before tax and net decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed assets.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Our audit work at the three locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual location which We determined materiality for the Group to be 17.0m 2014: 14.0m were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 3.1m to 15.4m which is 3.6% 2014: 3.9% of pre-tax profit.
In determining our materiality we have used a three-year average Members of the Group audit team including the lead audit partner profit before tax to reflect the cyclical nature of the industry in which have made several site visits to component audit teams during the the Group operates.
This is an updated approach compared to 2014, financial year and after the year end to ensure sufficient involvement where we used a two-year average, and reduces further the impact and oversight of work performed.
At the Group level, we also tested of any one-off or cyclical volatility.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all audit differences in excess of 650,000 as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 72 Financial statements OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities, In our opinion: the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 2006: and statements in accordance with applicable law and International the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require report for the financial year for which the financial statements us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that BY EXCEPTION our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in our opinion: in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the we have not received all the information and explanations we Companys members those matters we are required to state to them require for our audit: or in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for from branches not visited by us: or our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Directors remuneration assurance that the financial statements are free from material Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been assessment of: made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and nothing to report arising from these matters.
the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Corporate Governance Statement the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the directors: and the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys the overall presentation of the financial statements.
compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
report is: If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of EDWARD HANSON performing our audit: or Senior statutory auditor otherwise misleading.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified London, UK any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit 15 June 2015 and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 73
