Governance | Independent auditors report | 94 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Opinions and conclusions arising The risk Our response continued from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial AB Mauri, Australian meat, European sugar This assessment covered key inputs such and UK Bakeries have all experienced difficult as projected economic growth, operational statements is unmodified trading environments in recent years.
improvement in factory performance, We have audited the financial statements cost inflation, selling prices, volumes, of Associated British Foods plc for the AB Mauris profitability has been impacted and discount rates, as well as performing by competitive pricing pressures in some 52 week period ended 12 September 2015 break-even analysis on the assumptions of its businesses compounded by macroset out on pages 96 to 151. to assess the sensitivity of them on the economic conditions, including high inflation headroom of each CGU.
In our opinion: rates and currency devaluations.
We tested the sensitivity of the impairment The Australian meat and UK Bakery the financial statements give a true calculations to changes in key assumptions businesses operate in environments of and fair view of the state of the groups used by the directors to evaluate the impact significant retailer pressure on price and and of the parent companys affairs as on the headroom for each CGU and to assess competitor activity.
at 12 September 2015 and of the the reasonableness of the disclosures made.
Uncertainty surrounding the impact of groups profit for the 52 weeks We also assessed whether the groups regime reform abolishing EU sugar quotas then ended: disclosures about the sensitivity of the in 2017 and low world sugar prices have outcome of the impairment assessment to led to a significant decline in profitability the group financial statements have changes in key assumptions reflected the key of the groups European sugar businesses.
been properly prepared in accordance risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill, other Improvement in profitability is dependent with International Financial Reporting intangibles and property, plant and equipment.
on recovery in sugar prices and maintaining Standards as adopted by the European competitive advantage through optimising Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : factory performance.
Tax provisioning included within the parent company financial In light of these trading challenges and the income tax creditor of 126m statements have been properly sensitivity to improvement in profitability, Refer to pages 71 Audit committee there is a risk that the groups significant prepared in accordance with UK report, 106 accounting policy and 112 goodwill, other intangibles and property Accounting Standards: and financial disclosures.
plant and equipment balances in respect the financial statements have been of AB Mauri, Australian meat, UK Bakeries The risk prepared in accordance with the and European sugar businesses may not requirements of the Companies be recoverable.
Accruals for tax contingencies require the Act 2006: and, as regards the group The recoverability of these assets carrying directors to make judgements and estimates financial statements, Article 4 of value is therefore dependent on forecasting in relation to tax issues and exposures given the IAS Regulation.
and discounting future cash flows, which that the group operates in a number of tax is inherently uncertain.
jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer 2.
Our assessment of risks North China which was previously considered pricing and other international tax legislation of material misstatement to be at risk of impairment is no longer and the time taken for tax matters to be In arriving at our audit opinion above included following the disposal of two of agreed with the tax authorities.
on the financial statements the risks the four factories and the associated losses of material misstatement that had Our response on disposals recognised in the current year.
the greatest effect on our audit were In this area our audit procedures included Our response as follows: the use of our own international and local Our audit procedures included testing Carrying value of goodwill, other tax specialists to assess the groups tax the principles and integrity of the groups positions, its correspondence with the intangibles and property plant discounted cash flow model for each relevant tax authorities, and to analyse and equipment of 1,404m highlighted cash generating unit CGU.
and challenge the assumptions used Carrying value non-current assets of to determine tax provisions based on To assess the reasonableness of the cash AB Mauri 531m, Australian meat our knowledge and experiences of the flow models principal assumptions we application of the international and local 84m, UK Bakeries 258m and compared them to externally derived data legislation by the relevant authorities European sugar 531m.
such as inflation, GDP growth forecasts, and courts.
future commodity price indicators as Refer to pages 71 Audit committee well as our own assessments which took We also considered the adequacy of the report, 106 accounting policy and into account historic trends and other groups disclosures in respect of tax and 114 to 117 financial disclosures.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Governance | Independent auditors report | 95 3.
Our application of materiality and discussed in more detail, and any further the parent company financial an overview of the scope of our audit work required by the group and divisional statements and the part of the The materiality for the group financial audit team was then performed by the Remuneration report to be audited statements as a whole was set at component auditor.
are not in agreement with the 50m, determined with reference to accounting records and returns: or 4.
Our opinion on other matters a benchmark of group profit before tax prescribed by the Companies Act certain disclosures of directors normalised to exclude impairment charges 2006 is unmodified remuneration specified by law are of 98m as disclosed in note 2 and losses In our opinion: not made: or on disposal and closures of businesses of 172m as disclosed in note 21 of the part of the Remuneration report to we have not received all the 987m of which it represents 5%.
be audited has been properly prepared information and explanations we in accordance with the Companies Act require for our audit.
We report to the Audit Committee 2006: and any corrected or uncorrected identified Under the Listing Rules we are required misstatements exceeding 0.5m for items the information given in the Strategic to review: impacting the income statement and report and the Directors report for the directors statement, set out 2m for items in respect of balance sheet the financial year for which the financial on page 67 in relation to going misclassifications in addition to other statements are prepared is consistent concern: and identified misstatements that warrant with the financial statements.
the part of the Corporate Governance 5.
We have nothing to report in Statement on page 62 relating to the Of the groups 598 reporting components, respect of the matters on which we companys compliance with the ten we subjected 202 to audit for group are required to report by exception provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate reporting purposes and 40 to specified Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are Governance Code specified for risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter required to report to you if, based on the our review.
were not individually financially significant knowledge we acquired during our audit, to require an audit for group reporting we have identified other information in We have nothing to report in respect purposes, but were included in the scope the annual report that contains a material of the above responsibilities.
of our group reporting work in order to inconsistency with either that knowledge Scope and responsibilities provide further coverage over the or the financial statements, a material As explained more fully in the Directors identified risks and the groups results.
misstatement of fact, or that is responsibilities statement set out on page otherwise misleading.
The components within the scope 93, the directors are responsible for the of our audit work accounted for the In particular, we are required to report preparation of the financial statements and percentages of the groups results as to you if: for being satisfied that they give a shown in the table below.
A description of the we have identified material scope of an audit of financial statements The group audit team instructed inconsistencies between the is provided on the Financial Reporting component auditors as to the significant knowledge we acquired during our Councils website at www.
uk areas to be covered, including the relevant audit and the directors statement that auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made risks detailed above and the information they consider that the annual report solely to the companys members as to be reported back.
The group audit team and financial statements taken as a a body and is subject to important approved the component materialities whole is fair, balanced and understandable explanations and disclaimers regarding which ranged from 0.01m to 35m, and provides the information necessary our responsibilities, published on our having regard to the mix of size and risk for shareholders to assess the groups website at www.
com uk profile of the group across the components.
performance, business model and auditscopeukco2014a, which are The work on 84 of the 242 components strategy: or incorporated into this report as if set out was performed by component auditors the Governance section of the annual in full and should be read to provide an and the rest by the group audit team.
report does not appropriately address understanding of the purpose of this The group audit team visited 55 matters communicated by us to the report, the work we have undertaken components in Ireland, UK, the US, Audit committee.
and the basis of our opinions.
Germany, Brazil, Spain and China.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are Richard Pinckard Telephone conference meetings were required to report to you if, in our opinion: Senior Statutory Auditor also held with these component auditors for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, and the majority of the others that were adequate accounting records have Statutory Auditor not physically visited.
At these visits and not been kept by the parent company, meetings, the findings reported to the or returns adequate for our audit have Chartered Accountants group and divisional audit team were not been received from branches 15 Canada Square not visited by us: or London E14 5GL Audit coverage 3 November 2015 Number of Group Group profit Total components revenue before tax assets Audits for group reporting purposes 202 84% 86% 85% Specified risk focused audit procedures 40 7% 4% 6% Total 242 91% 90% 91% Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
