Financial Statements Auditors Reports on the Financial Statements andonInternal Control overFinancial Reporting SarbanesOxley Act Section 404 The report set out below is provided in Exchange Commission.
Those reports are KPMG LLP has also reported separately compliance with International Standards on unqualified and include opinions on the onthe Company Financial Statements of Auditing UK and Ireland.
KPMG LLP has Group Financial Statements and on AstraZeneca PLC and on the information also issued reports in accordance with theeffectiveness of internal control over inthe Directors Remuneration Report thatis standards of the Public Company Accounting financial reporting as at 31 December 2015 described as having been audited.
This audit Oversight Board in the US, which will be Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404.
The report is set out on page 196. included in the Annual Report on Form 20-F Directors statement on internal control over to be filed with the US Securities and financial reporting is set out on page 135.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members ofAstraZeneca PLC only Opinions and conclusions a whole and consequently are incidental to Our findings arisingfromour audit that opinion, and we do not express discrete In determining the appropriateness of the 1.
Our opinion on the Group Financial opinions on separate elements of the Group rebates, chargebacks and returns deductions Statements is unmodified Financial Statements.
in accordance with contractual and regulatory We have audited the Group Financial requirements, there is room for judgement Rebates, discounts, allowances and Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for the year and we found that within that, the Groups returns in the US $3,307m ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages judgement was balanced 2014: balanced.
Refer to page 101 Audit Committee Report, 140 to 195.
In our opinion the Group Financial We found the assumptions used and the page 145 accounting policy and page 77 Statements: resulting estimates to be balanced 2014: financial risk management.
We also found no errors in the give a true and fair view of the state of the The risk year-end rebate accrual calculations.
Groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 Rebates, chargebacks and returns under and of its profit for the year then ended: We found the disclosures on rebates, contractual and regulatory requirements in have been properly prepared in chargebacks and returns to be proportionate.
the United States of America US, which accordance with International Financial arededucted in arriving at revenue, are Carrying value of intangible assets Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted complex and require significant judgement $22,646m by the European Union EU : and and estimation by management in Refer to page 101 Audit Committee Report, have been prepared in accordance with establishing anappropriate accrual.
page 147 accounting policy, page 158 the requirements of the Companies Act financial disclosures and page 79 financial 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our principal audit procedures included: 2.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs testing the Groups controls surrounding The risk asissued by the International Accounting thedeductions made to revenue for rebates, The Group has significant intangible assets Standards Board IASB chargebacks and returns and key manual and arising from the acquisition of products both As explained in the Group accounting policies systems-based controls in the order-to-cash launched and in development.
Recoverability section of the Group Financial Statements set transaction cycle.
Our audit work involved of these assets is based on forecasting and out on pages 140 to 195, the Group, in testing key controls including reconciliations discounting future cash flows, which are addition to complying with its legal obligation between sales systems and the general inherently highly judgemental.
For products to apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, has ledger and those over claims, credits and indevelopment the main risk is achieving also applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
We also assessed successful trial results and obtaining In our opinion, the Group Financial Statements theaccuracy of the calculation of the accrual, requiredclinical and regulatory approvals.
comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
corroborated inputs and key assumptions, Forlaunched products, the key risk is the both to internal and independent sources ability to successfully commercialise the 3.
Our assessment of risks of including sales contracts with customers: individual product concerned.
materialmisstatement performed an analysis of the accrual balance We summarise below the risks of material Our response and deductions to sales year on year, misstatement that had the greatest effect In this area our principal audit procedures corroborating movements compared with onour audit, our key audit procedures to included testing the Groups controls expectations and payment claims and address those risks and our findings from surrounding intangible asset impairments considered the historical accuracy of the those procedures in order that the Companys andevaluating the Groups assumptions accrual.
We also assessed the adequacy ofthe members as a body may better understand usedin assessing the recoverability of Groups disclosure of its rebates, chargebacks the process by which we arrived at our intangible assets, in particular, revenue and and returns policy, the judgement involved auditopinion.
Our findings are the result of cash flow projections and useful economic and other related disclosures.
procedures undertaken in the context of and lives.
We also performed sensitivity analysis solely for the purpose of our statutory audit over individual intangible asset models, where opinion on the Group Financial Statements as we considered there to be a higher risk of 136 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Financial Statements impairment, to assess the level of sensitivity the year, monitored external sources and used to value the Groups net pension deficit to key assumptions and focus our work in considered assessments made of the could have a significant effect on the results those areas.
Our procedures for products probability of defending any litigation and and financial position of the Group.
indevelopment included assessing the thereliability of estimating any obligation.
Our response reasonableness of the Groups assumptions Wealso assessed whether the Groups Our principal audit procedures included the regarding probability of obtaining regulatory disclosures detailing significant legal testing of the Groups controls surrounding the approval through comparison to industry proceedings adequately disclose the post-retirement defined benefit plans valuations practice and consideration of trial readouts, potentialliabilities of the Group.
and the challenge of key assumptions, being regulatory announcements and the Groups Our findings the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality internal governance and approval process.
life expectancy, which are included in the Whilst the outcome of these litigation matters We also interviewed a range of key Research, is inherently uncertain in each case, we found valuation calculations of the Groups Development and Commercial personnel to retirement benefit obligations in countries that the Group applied balanced judgements corroborate these assumptions.
For launched 2014: balanced, on a case by case basis, in with significant defined benefit pension plans, products we discussed key assumptions with the support of our own actuarial assessing whether or not a provision should be including the size of the therapeutic area recognised.
We found that the assumptions specialists.
This involved a comparison of market, the products projected share of this these key assumptions used against our own used and the resulting liability recorded to be and expected pricing and associated costs.
We found that internal benchmarks and externally derived Our procedures also included challenging data.
We obtained and assessed third party theGroup gives extensive disclosure on the internally generated evidence by reviewing potential liability in excess of that recognised assurance reports on controls over the analyst commentaries, consensus forecasts valuation of pension assetsheld by key in the Financial Statements and the significant and retrospective assessment of the accuracy but unquantifiable contingent liability in custodians and compared asset values to third of the Groups projections.
We also assessed party confirmations.
Additionally, we assessed respect of these litigation matters.
the adequacy of related disclosures in the the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in Groups financial statements.
Tax provisioning $1,734m respect of post-retirement benefits.
Refer to page 101 Audit Committee Report, Our findings page 146 accounting policy, page 192 Our findings We found the Groups assumptions and financial disclosures and page 81 financial Overall, we found the key assumptions used theresulting estimates to be balanced risk management.
in, and the resulting estimate of, the valuation 2014:balanced.
We found that the disclosures of retirement benefit obligations within the proportionately describe the inherent degree The risk Group to be mildly optimistic 2014: balanced.
Due to the Group operating in a number of of subjectivity in the estimates and the The third party assurance reports did not potential impact on future periods of revisions different tax jurisdictions and the complexities identify significant deviations in the operation of transfer pricing and other international to these estimates.
of controls over the valuation of assets which taxlegislation, accruals for tax contingencies Litigation and contingent liabilities caused us to change the scope or extent require the Directors to make judgements provisions of $357m ofour procedures and we found no errors in and estimates in relation to tax issues Refer to page 101 Audit Committee Report, our comparison of asset values to third party andexposures.
page 147 accounting policy, page 186 confirmations.
We found the disclosures financial disclosures and page 80 financial Our response inrespect of post-retirement benefits to risk management.
In this area our principal audit procedures beproportionate.
included: testing the Groups controls Overall findings The risk surrounding tax provisioning, assessment In the normal course of business, litigation and In reaching our audit opinion on the Group ofcorrespondence with the relevant tax Financial Statements we took into account contingent liabilities may arise from productauthorities and the use of our own local specific and general legal proceedings, from the findings that we describe above and andinternational tax specialists to analyse those for other, lower risk areas.
Overall the guarantees or from government investigations.
and challenge theassumptions used by The amounts involved are potentially material findings from across the whole audit are that, management to determine tax provisions, although the Group Financial Statements use and the application of accounting standards based on our knowledge and experiences to determine the amount, if any, to be provided estimates that are mainly balanced, there is ofthe application of the relevant legislation one conservative estimate and one mildly as a liability, is inherently subjective.
We also assessed optimistic estimate.
However, compared with Our response the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in materiality and considering the qualitative Having made enquiries of Directors and respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
aspects of the Group Financial Statements as in-house legal counsel to obtain their view Our findings a whole, our opinion on the Group Financial onthe status of significant legal matters, our We found the Groups estimate of the Statements is unmodified.
principal audit procedures included: testing amounts to be recognised as tax liabilities the Groups controls surrounding litigation 4.
O ur application of materiality and tobe conservative 2014: conservative and and contingent liabilities, obtaining formal anoverview of the scope of our audit that the disclosures provide a proportionate confirmations from the Groups external The materiality for the Group Financial description of the current status of uncertain counsel for all significant legal cases and Statements as a whole was set at $140m tax positions.
discussions with external counsel where 2014: $94m, determined with reference to necessary.
In addition we used our own Post-retirement benefits $1,974m abenchmark of Group profit before taxation, forensic and compliance specialists to assess Refer to page 101 Audit Committee Report, normalised to exclude this years asset the Groups compliance logs and reports to page 145 accounting policy, page 166 impairments and fair value movement on identify actual and potential non-compliance financial disclosures and page 80 financial contingent consideration as disclosed in with laws and regulations, both those specific risk management.
Notes 9 and 18, which are specifically to the Groups business and those relating to audited, of which it represents 5.0% The risk the conduct of business generally.
Significant estimates are made in valuing the analysed correspondence with regulators, Groups post-retirement defined benefit plans.
considered legal expenses incurred during Small changes in assumptions and estimates AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 137 Financial Statements We report to the Audit Committee any Materiality for the Group Financial Statements corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding $7.0m 0.25% of profit before tax plus normalised Group profit before taxation, in impairments and contingent addition to other identified misstatements that consideration revaluations Materiality warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
$2,813m $140m Whole financial statements materiality The Group operates a significant number oftrading entities, each of which is determined to be a reporting component, located in 65 countries around the globe.
TheOperating Segment disclosures in Note 6 set out the individual significance of each geographical region.
We performed audits for group reporting purposes at nine components and specified $7m Misstatements reported risk-focused audit procedures at two to the Audit Committee standalone components as well as at 33 components serviced by the Groups shared service centres.
The latter 35 components The work on all components in scope of our Scoping and coverage were not individually financially significant work, other than on the Parent Company, enough to require an audit for group reporting was performed by component and shared purposes, but were included in the scope of Group revenue % service centre auditors.
The audit of the our audit in order to provide further coverage Parent Company and consolidation was over relevant account balances.
performed by the Group audit team.
The Group operates four principal shared A udits for The Group audit team visited five component service centres both in-house and outsourced group reporting locations, during the year, in the UK, Sweden, in the UK, Malaysia, Romania and India, purposes 73 Japan, France and Germany to discuss and which process a substantial proportion of  key risks and audit strategy.
Video focused audit theGroups transactions.
Theoutputs from procedures 22 or telephone conference meetings were also the shared service centres are included in held with all group reporting component thefinancial information of thereporting auditors throughout the audit and the majority Components absolute components they service and therefore they of the other component and shared service profits losses % are not separate reporting components.
Each centre auditors that were not physically of the service centres issubject to specified visited.
At these visits and meetings, the audit risk-focused audit procedures, predominantly A udits for approach, findings and observations reported the testing of transaction processing and groupreporting to the Group audit team were discussed in review controls.
Additional procedures are purposes 69 Specifiedriskmore detail, and any further work required by performed by component audit teams at focused audit the Group audit team was then performed certain reporting components to address the procedures 18 bythe component auditor.
audit risks not covered by the work performed over the shared service centres.
Our opinion on the other matter prescribed procedures are designed to address the risk Group total assets % by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified of material misstatement identified through In our opinion the information given in the our group risk assessment processes.
Strategic Report and the Directors Report forthe financial year for which the Financial This resulted in the coverage shown in the A udits for Statements are prepared is consistent with neighbouring charts.
For the remaining group reporting purposes 85 the Group Financial Statements.
components, we performed analysis at the SpecifiedriskGroup level to re-examine our assessment focused audit 6.
We have nothing to report on the that there were no significant risks of material procedures 4 disclosures of principal risks misstatement within them.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or The Group audit team instructed component draw attention to in relation to: and shared service centre auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the Directors statement of Risk overview therelevant risks detailed above and the from page 21, concerning the principal information to be reported back.
The Group risks, their management, and, based audit team approved the component materiality on that, the Directors assessment and levels, which ranged from $4m to $100m, expectations of the Groups continuing having regard to the mix of size and risk in operation over the three years to profile of the Group across the components.
31 December 2018: or the disclosures in the Group Accounting Policies concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
138 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Financial Statements 7.
We have nothing to report in respect of Scope and responsibilities the matters on which we are required to As explained more fully in the Directors report by exception Responsibilities Statement set out on page Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required 135, the Directors are responsible for the to report to you if, based on the knowledge preparation of the Financial Statements and we acquired during our audit, we have for being satisfied that they give a true and fair identified other information in this Annual view.
A description of the scope of an audit of Report that contains a material inconsistency financial statements is provided on the Financial with either that knowledge or the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
Statements, a material misstatement of fact, uk auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made or that is otherwise misleading.
solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations In particular, we are required to report to anddisclaimers regarding our responsibilities, youif: published on our website at www.
com we have identified material inconsistencies uk auditscopeukco2014b, which are between the knowledge we acquired during incorporated into this report as if set out our audit and the Directors statement that infulland should be read to provide an they consider that the annual report and understanding of the purpose of this report, Financial Statements taken as a whole is the work we have undertaken and the basis fair, balanced and understandable and of our opinions.
provides the information necessary for Antony Cates Senior Statutory Auditor shareholders to assess the Groups position for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, and performance, business model and StatutoryAuditor strategy: or Chartered Accountants the Audit Committee Report does not 15 Canada Square appropriately address matters communicated London by us to the Audit Committee.
E14 5GL Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 4 February 2016 required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required toreview: the Directors statements, set out on pages 96 and 21, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability respectively: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 82 to 97 relating to the Groups compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Other matter we have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Statements We have reported separately on the ParentCompany Financial Statements ofAstraZeneca PLC for the year ended 31December 2015 and on the information intheDirectors Remuneration Report that isdescribed as having been audited.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 139
