Financial statements 64 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial statements Independent auditors report Opinion on financial statements Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of Statement set out on page 63, the directors are responsible for the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied 2015 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements have been properly prepared in and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the the parent company financial statements have been properly Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Scope of the audit of the financial statements the financial statements have been prepared in accordance An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free IASRegulation.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting What we have audited policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys We have audited the financial statements of AVEVA Group plc for circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately the year ended 31 March 2015 which comprise the Consolidated disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the income expense, the Consolidated balance sheet, the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated statement of non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material changes in shareholders equity and the parent company balance inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to sheet, the Group related notes 1 to 29, the parent company identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect related notes 1 to 9 and the Statement of Group accounting based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial consider the implications for our report.
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
65 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and our response to that risk We identify below the risks of material misstatement which had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk Response The risk of inappropriate revenue recognition on software licence contracts In particular: We review and walkthrough the central process over the approval and recognition of revenue contracts across the group.
inappropriate application of the We performed licence revenue sample transaction testing at a local and group level to ensure that group revenue recognition policy revenue had been recorded in accordance with the revenue recognition principles as detailed in note 2 and IAS 18 Revenue for licence and had been appropriately recorded in the current year income statement or deferred on the balance revenue recognition, which could sheet as appropriate.
Thiswas achieved by: result in, for example, revenue agreeing licence revenues through to signed contracts: being recorded when performance agreeing the revenue through to subsequent payment as evidence of collectability: conditions have not been satisfied, checking evidence to support delivery and therefore correct timing of revenue recognition: and incorrect deferral of revenue for reviewing contract terms for any conditions that would impact the timing of the revenue recognition support and maintenance and other and ensuring appropriate allocation and recognition of revenue for other deliverables included obligations: and within the contract.
inappropriate licence revenue Given the significant risk concentration and centralised oversight of revenue recognition, the group recognition in relation to cut off, audit team performed additional substantive audit work on all contracts across the group where as revenue may not have been invoices over 0.4 million were issued in the year, to ensure consistency of application of the revenue recognised in the correct accounting recognition policy.
period AC, AP, SAE We performed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue items booked either side of year end to ensure that licence revenue was recognised for software where the contract was signed by both AVEVA and the customer prior to year end and the software had been delivered prior to the year end.
We performed journals testing by selecting a sample of revenue journals and assessed the appropriateness of the journal by checking to supporting evidence and ensuring compliance with the revenue recognition principles in note 2.
We tested the assertions made by management surrounding the fair value of the support and maintenance element of the revenue contracts by reviewing actual data from recent periods: and To better understand the nature of the contractual relationships with customers, any contractual issues or any ongoing contractual obligations, we made enquiries of management within the business, including the sales team to ensure that appropriate obligations and commitments had been recorded in the financial statements.
The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill in relation to the Enterprise Solutions business segment In particular there is a risk that the We examined group managements fair value less costs to sell FVLCS valuation, based on the advice carrying value of goodwill on the of a third party valuation specialist, of significant goodwill and indefinite lived assets in relation to the balance sheet is not recoverable based Enterprise Solutions business segment.
on reasonable assumptions applied We critically assessed and challenged the methodology and assumptions used by the third party specialist to an appropriate methodology, in to arrive at the FVLCS valuation by using our own valuation specialist to assist us with determining the accordance with IAS 36 Impairment appropriateness of the approach adopted, based on their own knowledge and experience.
of assets and hence is impaired We tested a sample of the input data, including transaction and third party company data, used for the AC, AP, SAE.
valuation back to source documentation or third party evidence.
We challenged managements conclusion over the likelihood of reasonable sensitivities.
We ensured that the financial statement disclosures met the requirements of the accounting standard.
These risks are discussed in other areas of the Annual Report as noted by the following key.
AC See Audit Committee Report AP See Statement of Group accounting policies SAE See note 2 d significant accounting estimates Our assessment of revenue recognition as a risk of material misstatement is consistent with the prior year.
However, due to the Enterprise Solutions segment not achieving its current year forecast result, this resulted in an increased risk of material misstatement of the carrying value of goodwill and therefore greater audit focus and effort was incurred in this area.
66 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our application of materiality An overview of the scope of our audit We determined materiality for the group to be 3.05 million 2014: In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the group financial 3.5 million, which is approximately 5% 2014: 5% of pre-tax statements, our group audit scope focused on twelve locations: profit.
We used pre-tax profits because, in our view, this is the most relevant measure of the underlying financial performance the UK was subject to a full scope audit.
This provided the basis for determining the nature, nine locations were subject to a specific scope audit, where timing and extent of our audit procedures, and identifying and the extent of the audit work was based on our assessment assessing the risk of material misstatement.
of the risk of material misstatement and the materiality of the operations at those locations.
For these locations audit On the basis of our assessments of risk and the groups work was primarily focussed on revenue, debtors, cash, overall control environment, our judgement was that overall accruals and payroll.
performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement two locations were subject to a limited scope audit, which in an individual account or balance for the group should be involved analytical review procedures and audit work focussed 50% 2014: 75% of planning materiality, namely 1.5 million on risks specific to the locations concerned.
We reduced the performance materiality year, in both instances this was around debtor recoverability.
factor from 75% to 50% given prior year Income Statement differences of 1.3 million of which 0.6 million related to one Together with the group functions which were also subject revenue contract and 0.7 million related to corporate tax, all of to a full scope audit, these locations represent the principal which were corrected.
Our objective in adopting this approach business locations of the group and account for 81% 2014: was to ensure that the total of any detected but unadjusted 79% of the groups revenue, 96% 2014: 84% of the groups and undetected audit differences was unlikely to exceed our profit before tax and 105% 2014: 81% of the groups net assets, assessment of materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
reflective of two net liability companies which have not been subject to scoped procedures.
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage of our total performance materiality.
The performance Revenue coverage by scope materiality set for each component is based on the relative size of the component and our view of the risk of misstatement at Full scope that component.
In the current year the range of performance 21% materiality allocated to components was 0.3 million to Specic scope 0.7 million 2014: 0.4 million to 1 million.
60% We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Not significant scope the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.15 million 19% 2014: 0.17 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Senior Statutory Auditor leads the audit at one full scope We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the location, one specific scope location and the two limited scope quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the locations as well as the gro up functions.
The group audit team light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
visits other key locations on a rotational basis and visited two specific locations during the year.
In addition the group audit team held a group planning meeting with the audit teams of the twelve locations to ensure direction and input into the local audit teams audit approach, including their assessment of the risk of material fraud or error.
The group audit team also participated in five of the local audit team closing meetings and reviewed key working papers where necessary.
67 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
