Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 102 Independent Auditors report to the members of BAE Systems plc only Opinions and conclusions arising The directors have detailed procedures and programme, met the customer directly to fromour audit processes, called Lifecycle Management LCM, further corroborate the status of contracts: in place to manage the commercial, technical 1.
Our opinion on the financial veried the consistency of information and financial aspects of long-term contracts.
statements is unmodied presented in the year-end CSRs to The LCM process includes the regular We have audited the financial statements underlying ledgers, as well as other financial preparation of a Contract Status Report CSR, ofBAE Systems plc for the year ended information received and knowledge gained which includes key accounting and forecast 31December 2015 set out on pages 106 through the above procedures: and information for the relevant contract.
used our cumulative knowledge of contract In ouropinion: The risk of material misstatement is that issues to challenge the appropriateness of theaccounting for the Groups significant the contract positions reected in the the financial statements give a true and fair contracts does not accurately reect the financial statements at the year end, view of the state of the Groups and of the progress made and status of the relevant including the assessment of margin traded parent companys affairs as at 31 December contract at thereporting date.
on contracts based on milestones achieved 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year and allowances made for risks.
then ended: The contracts requiring the highest degree the Group financial statements have been ofjudgement that occupied a significant Carrying value of US goodwill 7.4bn properly prepared in accordance with proportion of the audit effort included: Refer to page 66 Audit Committee report and pages 123to 125 accounting policy and financial disclosures International Financial Reporting Standards Astute Class submarines: as adopted by the European Union: Audit risk European Typhoon: the parent company financial statements The uncertainty over future US defence Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers: have been properly prepared in accordance spending as a whole has reduced since 2014, Saudi British Defence Co-operation with UK accounting standards, including although the allocation of the budget between Programme: FRS101, Reduced Disclosure Framework: and BAE Systems and competitors remains Saudi Typhoon: and uncertain.
This places continued importance the financial statements have been prepared on the US business to secure export contracts.
in accordance with the requirements of the US commercial shipbuilding contracts.
Both of these factors contribute to the risk Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Procedures to address these audit risks that the goodwill allocated to the Groups Group financial statements, Article 4 of the included those listed below USCash-Generating Units CGU will not IAS Regulation.
We considered the design and tested the berecoverable.
Our assessment of risks of material effective operation of key controls within the The Groups annual goodwill impairment misstatement LCM process and supporting contract-related testing is based on the five-year Integrated In arriving at our audit opinion above on the balances, including: Business Plan forecasts.
Due to the inherent financial statements, the risks of material transactional controls that underpin the uncertainty involved in forecasting and misstatement that had the greatest effect on production of long-term contract-related discounting future cash ows, which are the our audit were as follows: balances including cost information on basis of the assessment of recoverability, this contracts, such as the purchase-to-pay Recognition of revenues and profits isone of the key judgemental areas that our cycleandpayroll controls: onlong-term contracts audit is concentrated on.
Furthermore, changes Refer to page 66 Audit Committee report and pages programme-level controls, such as periodic in the Groups operating and management 112to 115 accounting policy and financial disclosures peer reviews performed by experienced structure that have taken place over the past employees independent to the contract Audit risk two years have affected the assessment of atpre-determined stages of the contract A significant proportion of the Groups CGUs and the related allocation of goodwill.
lifecycle: and revenues and profits are derived from The Groups 2015 testing identied an long-term contracts.
higher-level controls, such as monthly impairment charge of 75m, recognised against contract review meetings, quarterly business These contracts include complex technical and the US CGUs 2014 87m impairment charge.
unit review meetings and Group-level review commercial risks and often specify performance meetings, covering contracts in the scope Given the uncertainty associated with the milestones to be achieved throughout the ofthe LCM framework.
valuation of the recoverable amounts, contract period, which can last many years.
transparent disclosures and clarity of The estimates and assumptions are subject For significant contracts including those listed sensitivities to key assumptions are critical toa high degree of uncertainty, in particular in our audit risk description, determined on tohelp inform readers how the directors those being made to: the basis of the current and future technical or havemade their assessment.
commercial complexity, financial signicance assess the proportion of revenues to and any forecast to be in significant loss-making Procedures to address these audit risks recognise in line with contract completion: positions, we also: included those listed below forecast the outturn profit margin on each In respect of the assessment of CGUs: We obtained an understanding of the contract incorporating appropriate challenged the directors assessment of CGUs performance and status of the contract allowances for technical and commercial with reference to accounting standards and through discussion with contract project risks related to performance milestones yet considered the operating and management teams, Group and business unit directors, to be achieved: and structure changes with reference to our aswell as through attendance at project appropriately identify, value and provide for understanding of the business.
We also teams contract review meetings: loss-making contracts.
critically assessed whether the allocation challenged the Groups positions through ofgoodwill to those CGUs was done on the examination of externally available aconsistent and reasonable basis.
evidence, such as customer correspondence and, in the case of one significant BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 103 In respect of the cash ows: We considered Given the size of the schemes, small changes oftax jurisdictions and the complexities of the Groups procedures used to develop the in assumptions and estimates used to value local and international tax legislation.
forecasts and the principles and integrity of the Groups retirement benefit obligations The tax matters are at various stages, from the Groups discounted cash ow model.
To have a significant impact on the Groups preliminary discussions with tax authorities challenge the reasonableness of those cash shareof the retirement benefit obligations.
through to tax tribunal or court proceedings ows, we assessed the historical accuracy of Procedures to address these audit risks where the matters can take many years to the Groups forecasting and considered the included those listed below resolve.
The risk to the financial statements is forecasts with reference to publicly available In respect of the change in allocation method: that the eventual resolution of a matter with information, such as future defence expenditure.
We considered whether the updated method tax authorities is at an amount materially In respect of the discount rate: We compared provides a more appropriate allocation of the different to the estimated accrual.
the Groups assumptions to externally-derived deficit by challenging the key assumptions in Procedures to address these audit risks data for example, bond yields and ination the context of what we know about the included those listed below statistics where appropriate.
We conducted business and member prole.
Together with our own tax specialists, we our own assessments to challenge other key We assessed whether the allocation had been considered any large or unusual items affecting inputs, such as projected economic growth performed in line with this method, including: the effective tax rate and whether or not any and gearing leverage.
We also used our own current year items would indicate a requirement valuation specialists in assessing the overall checking the allocation of a sample of for further accruals.
members through to underlying data: In respect of CGU recoverable amounts: In In considering the judgements and estimates using our actuarial specialists to roll forward one instance, we compared the valuation of of tax accruals, we used our own international the asset valuations from 31 March 2014, aCGU to externally available information.
and local tax specialists to assess the Groups the point at which the split of the assets has tax positions.
This included the assessment As an additional sense check to challenge the been based, to the period end: and ofits correspondence with the relevant tax recoverable value of goodwill as a whole, we agreeing to correspondence between the authorities, the Companys external tax compared the sum of discounted cash ows two parties.
We also used our to the Groups market capitalisation.
knowledge and experience of the application In respect of the multi-employer allocations: In respect of the sensitivity of the goodwill of the international and local legislation by For all other allocations, we considered valuation to the key assumptions: We have used therelevant authorities and courts in order to whether the methodology used, to allocate our own analytical tool to run scenario-specic challenge the positions taken by the directors.
aproportion of the Groups retirement models including changes to the discount rate In support of these discussions, we separately benetobligations to the equity accounted and forecast cash ows as well as break-even met with certain key external tax advisers of investments and other participating employers, analyses to stress-test the valuations of the the Company.
We assessed this estimate CGUs recoverable amounts.
with reference to agreements between the We also analysed and challenged the In respect of the disclosures: We assessed Groupand the equity accounted investments assumptions used to determine the tax accruals whether the Groups disclosures about the and other participating employers, which and tested the accuracy of calculations.
sensitivities to changes in key assumptions weexamined.
reected the risks inherent in the valuation We have also considered the adequacy of the ofgoodwill as well as our knowledge of In respect of the deficit valuation: We Groups tax disclosures.
challenged the key assumptions supporting the Groups retirement benefit obligations 3.
Our application of materiality and Retirement benefit obligations 4.7bn valuation, with input from our own actuarial anoverview of the scope of our audit Refer to page 66 Audit Committee report and pages specialists.
This included a comparison of the 139to 148 accounting policy and financial disclosures The materiality for the Group financial discount rate, ination and life expectancy statements as a whole was set at 55m Audit risk assumptions used against externally-derived 201480m, determined with reference to The Groups share of the pension schemes data.
In order to sense check the reasonableness abenchmark of Group profit before tax from net deficit was 4.7bn after allocating 1.1bn of these assumptions, we performed a continuing operations normalised to remove to equity accounted investments and other benchmarking exercise against comparator the effects of goodwill impairments, of which participating employers.
it represents 4.7%, reecting industry Previously, all allocations to participating consensus levels 2014 7.6%.
In respect of the disclosures: We considered employers were based on the relative payroll the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in We reported to the Audit Committee contributions of active members.
respect of the key assumptions, including the anycorrected or uncorrected identied In 2015, BAE Systems and Airbus, the largest sensitivity of the deficit to changes and in misstatements exceeding 2.75m for income of the other participating employers, worked respect of the change in methodology of the statement items, in addition to other identied towards a sectionalisation of the BAE Systems allocation between participating employers.
misstatements that warranted reporting on Pension Scheme.
On this basis, they have qualitative grounds.
Tax accruals 353m changed the method in respect of the allocation Refer to page 66 Audit Committee report and pages 107 Of the Groups 41 reporting components, of the scheme assets and liabilities to Airbus.
and 119to 121 accounting policy and financial disclosures wesubjected 11 to audits for group reporting There is a risk that the method does not purposes and 11 to specified risk-focused audit Audit risk accurately reect the obligations of the two procedures.
The latter were not individually Accruals for tax contingencies require the employers orthat the resulting estimate may nancially significant enough to require an directors to make judgements and estimates have been calculated incorrectly.
audit for group reporting purposes, but did inrelation to tax risks.
This is one of the key present specic individual risks that needed All other multi-employer allocations continue judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated tobe addressed.
to be based onthe previous method.
on due to the Group operating in a number BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 104 Independent Auditors report continued The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages Under the Companies Act 2006, we are oftheGroups results: required to report to you if, in our opinion: Group Group adequate accounting records have not been Group profit total kept by the parent company, or returns Number of revenue before tax assets components % % % adequate for our audit have not been received 1 from branches not visited by us: or Audits for Group reporting purposes 11 68 75 82 2 specified risk-focused audit procedures 11 24 14 11 the parent company financial statements and the part of the Annual remuneration Total 22 92 89 93 report to be audited are not in agreement 1.
In the UK, US, Saudi Arabia and Australia.
with the accounting records and returns: or 2.
In the UK, US and Saudi Arabia.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or For the remaining components, we performed Based solely on the work required to be analysis at an aggregated level to re-examine undertaken in the course of the audit of the we have not received all the information and our preliminary assessment that there were financial statements and from reading the explanations we require for our audit.
unlikely to be any significant risks of material Strategic report and the Directors report: Under the Listing Rules, we are required to misstatement within them.
we have not identied material review: misstatements in those reports: and The Group audit team instructed component the directors statement, set out on page auditors as to the significant areas to be in our opinion, those reports have been 64, in relation to going concern and covered, including the relevant risks detailed prepared in accordance with the Companies longer-term viability: and above and the information to be reported Act 2006. the part of the Directors report section back.
The Group audit team approved the relating to the Companys compliance with 5.
We have nothing to report on the component materiality levels, which ranged the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate disclosures of principal risks from 3m to 33m, having regard to the Governance Code specified for our review.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during mixof size and risk prole of the Group across our audit, we have nothing material to add or the components.
The work on 20 of the 22 We have nothing to report in respect of the draw attention to in relation to: components was performed by component above responsibilities.
auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
the directors risk management, internal control and viability assessment on pages Scope of report and responsibilities The Group audit team held a global audit 63to 64 concerning the principal risks, As explained more fully in the directors conference in 2014, where all significant theirmanagement and, based on that, responsibilities statement set out on page 101, components came together in London to thedirectors assessment and expectations the directors are responsible for the preparation consider the audit risk and strategy.
Similar of the Group continuing in operation over of the financial statements and for being planning days took place in 2015 with the the five years to 2020: or satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
most significant component teams from the the disclosures in the Preparation section of Adescription of the scope of an audit of UK, US and Saudi Arabia.
In addition, the the financial statements concerning the use financial statements is provided on the Group audit team visited component teams of the going concern basis of accounting.
Financial Reporting Councils website at inthe UK, US, Saudi Arabia and Australia to www.
assess the audit risk and strategy, discuss and 6.
We have nothing to report in respect Thisreport is made solely to the Companys moderate the results of controls testing and of the matters on which we are required members as a body and is subject to important discuss preliminary findings of audit procedures.
to report by exception explanations and disclaimers regarding our Video and telephone conference meetings Under International Standards on Auditing responsibilities, published onour website at were also held with these component auditors UKand Ireland, we are required to report to www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, and any others that were not physically visited.
you if, based on the knowledge we acquired which are incorporated into this report as if At these visits and meetings, the findings during our audit, we have identied other setout in full and should be read to provide reported to the Group audit team were information in the Annual Report that contains anunderstanding of the purpose of this discussed in more detail, and any further work a material inconsistency with either that report, the work we have undertaken and required by the Group audit team was then knowledge or the financial statements, a thebasis of our opinions.
material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed Ian Starkey by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodied Senior Statutory Auditor In particular, we are required to report to you if: In our opinion: we have identied material inconsistencies For and on behalf of the part of the Annual remuneration between the knowledge we acquired during KPMG LLP reportto be audited has been properly our audit and the directors statement that Statutory Auditor prepared in accordance with the they consider that the Annual Report and Chartered Accountants CompaniesAct 2006: and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, 15 Canada Square the information given in the Strategic balanced and understandable, and provides London, E14 5GL reportand the Directors report for the the information necessary for shareholders to 17 February 2016 financial year for which the financial assess the Groups position and performance, statements are prepared is consistent business model and strategy: or withthe financial statements.
the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
