Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 85 Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc Opinion on financial In our opinion the financial statements: statements of give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at BalfourBeattyplc 31 December 2015 and of the Groups loss and Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group and Parent Company Income Statements, Statements of Comprehensive Income, Balance Sheets, Cash Flow Statements, Statements of Changes in Equity and the related Notes 1 to 41.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Going concern and the As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the Directors assessment of the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within Note 1 to the financial principal risks that would statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Company contained on threaten the solvency or page 50. liquidity of the company We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 44 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 44 to 50 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 50 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest material misstatement effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 86 Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Recognition of contract revenue, margin and related Our work on the recognition of contract revenue, margin and related receivables and liabilities receivables and liabilities included: Notes 2.4, 2.5, 2.26a and 2.26f we assessed the key controls over the recognition of contract The construction industry is characterised by contract risk with revenue and margin and, for continuing operations subject to significant judgements involved in the assessment of both current full scope audit procedures, tested to determine whether these and future contract financial performance.
controls were operating effectively throughout the year: we attended and inspected minutes from certain meetings, Revenue and margin are recognised based on the stage of forming a key part of the Groups risk process to fully challenge at completion of individual contracts, calculated on the proportion of a lower executive level, both new tenders and contract bids, and total costs at the reporting date compared to the estimated total ongoing performance on existing contracts: costs of the contract.
we selected a sample of contracts in order to challenge both The status of contracts is updated on a regular basis.
In doing so, current and future financial performance.
Samples were selected management are required to exercise significant judgement in based on a number of quantitative and qualitative factors, as well their assessment of the valuation of contract variations, claims and as other randomly selected contracts: liquidated damages revenue items : the completeness and accuracy for sampled contracts, we challenged managements key of forecast costs to complete: and the ability to deliver contracts judgements inherent in the forecast costs to complete that drive within forecast timescales.
the accounting under the percentage of completion method, The potential final contract outcomes can cover a wide range.
including the following procedures: Dependent on the level of judgement in each, the range on each a review of the contract terms and conditions by reference to contract can be individually material.
In addition, changes in these contract documentation: judgements, and the related estimates, as contracts progress can tested the existence and valuation of claims and variations both result in material adjustments to revenue and margin, which can be within contract revenue and contract costs via inspection of both positive and negative.
correspondence with customers and the supply chain: We note that management has highlighted several contracts that a review of legal and experts reports received on have a wide range of possible outcomes, both positive and negative, contentious matters: within Note 2.26a.
an assessment of the forecasts through discussion with Group, finance, commercial and operational management: an assessment of the ability to deliver contracts within budgeted timescales and any exposures to liquidated damages for late delivery of contract works: and a review of post-balance sheet contract performance to support year end judgements.
we attended multiple site visits across the business: we integrated construction experts into the audit team to support our audit challenge on a selection of contracts we determined to be most judgemental and of greatest risk: we assessed the recoverability of related receivables, including testing of post year end cash receipts, and completeness of any contract loss provisions through completion of the above procedures.
Trading performance within UK Construction Services In addition to the procedures described above and due to continued Notes 5 and 10 significant losses incurred by UK Construction Services during the year, we have maintained the following amendments to our The contract risks described above are applicable across the Group, audit approach: including UK Construction Services.
However, given the historical incidence of losses incurred by the UK Construction Services we have maintained the component materiality used to scope our business, most notably within Engineering Services and the audit of the UK Construction Services operations at 3.4 million London region of Regional Construction, there is a greater risk of 2014: 3.4 million.
This, in combination with our not placing misstatement associated with contract judgements in this division, reliance on internal controls in certain parts of the UK Construction particularly in respect of under-performing contracts.
Services business, led to an increase in the number of contracts tested substantively by us and a greater level of substantive audit Management provide commentary on these issues within the procedures performed on the forecast costs to complete.
Strategic Report, both in the Construction Services section on pages 22 to 25, which includes detailed discussion of the performance in UK Construction Services, and within the Risk Management Framework section on page 42 on managements conclusions and response to failings in controls within the business during 2015.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 87 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Assessment of whether losses incurred in 2015 should have Management performed an exercise looking at material contract been recognised in prior periods write-downs.
We reviewed this analysis and challenged the Note 2.26a conclusions reached.
In addition to reviewing managements own analysis, we also considered the following sources of information as Given the 195 million of losses incurred in UK Construction part of our audit: Services in 2015 including the 8 million disclosed as nonunderlying, management have undertaken an assessment to historical UK Construction Services and Group contract and determine whether any of the losses should have been recognised commercial issues papers: inprior periods.
findings included in contract specific internal audit reports: This exercise was inherently judgemental as it required the observations and findings from site visits performed and other reassessment of contract positions as at the prior period balance discussions held with management during 2015: sheet date using information which was available or should reasonably have been available at that point in time without using the subsequent events reviews performed at each balance sheet benefit of hindsight and in accordance with the requirements of IAS date: and 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
prior period audit working papers.
Management concluded from this exercise that the impact of any errors relating to prior periods was not material in the context of the Group accounts and accordingly the 2014 financial statements have not been restated.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets We assessed the key controls around the assessment of the Notes 2.12, 2.26d, 15 and 16 recoverability of goodwill balances.
As part of this process, we obtained copies of the valuation models used to determine the Under accounting standards, management is required to carry out recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit and tested the an annual impairment test which incorporates judgements based arithmetical accuracy of the models.
on assumptions about future profitability for the related businesses against which appropriate long-term growth rates and discount rates We challenged the assumptions underpinning the models, including must be applied.
the discount rates used, long-term growth rates and cash flow forecasts.
This was achieved through: consultation with Deloitte This exercise is highly judgemental and is used to support the valuation specialists to critically assess the discount rate and longcarrying value of 844 million of goodwill as at 31 December 2015 term growth rates applied: assessment of the reasonableness of 31 December 2014: 826 million.
forecast future cash flows by comparison to historical performance and future outlook: and through discussions with management.
We performed further sensitivities taking into account the historical forecasting accuracy of the Group, recognising its recent performance in this area and after considering the magnitude of the losses in 2014 and 2015.
We have considered the adequacy of managements disclosures in respect of reasonable possible changes to assumptions as set out in Note 15 as well as managements disclosure in respect to the aggregation level in which management has performed their tests.
With respect to the Groups UK construction business, we highlight that the recoverability of the goodwill within that cash-generating unit is predicated on returning the business to more normal levels of performance in the future.
We also assessed whether assumptions have been determined and applied consistently across the Group.
Last year our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year: accounting for assets held for sale, discontinued operations, and disposal accounting.
Given that there have been no significant disposals during the year, it has not had a significant impact on the strategy of our audit.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee discussed on page 60.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 88 Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 8.5 million 2014: 8.5 million.
Historically, we have used a current year profit metric to determine our materiality.
However, due to the significant losses in the current and prior year, we have been unable to use the same approach.
Instead, we have used professional judgement and maintained our materiality at the prior year level after reflecting the size and scale of the business being consistent with the prior year.
Use of alternative benchmarks, such as net assets or revenue, could have resulted in much higher materiality levels.
Materiality as a percentage of revenue and net assets in the current year is 0.1% 2014: 0.1% and 1.0% 2014: 0.7%, respectively.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 170,000 2014: 170,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including ouraudit Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at the most significant operating companies, including joint ventures.
Full audit procedures were performed on those companies within our audit scope.
Operating companies representing the principal business units within the Groups reportable segments and accounting for 95% 2014: 85% of the Groups total revenue, including discontinued operations, are subject to full audit procedures, with others accounting for 0% 2014: 7% of the Groups revenue subject to specified audit procedures.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at these locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity, which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 3.4 million to 5.1 million 2014: 3.4 million to 5.1 million.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team follow a programme of planned visits to the significant operating companies.
The Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visited operating companies covering 91% 2014: 72% of Group revenue in the year.
The Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team also discussed the risk assessment, reviewed documentation of key findings and participated in the close meetings for all operating companies subject to full scope.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion: prescribed by the Companies the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance Act 2006 with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 89 Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: received and accounting we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or records adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for ouraudit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006, we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules, we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement Statement relating to the Companys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our information in the Annual opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement on pages 66 and 67, the Directors Directors and auditor are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Simon Letts Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 14 March 2016 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
