Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 126 126 Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Babcock International Group PLCs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Babcock International Group PLCs financial statements comprise: the Group balance sheet as at 31 March 2015: the Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group cash flow statement for the year then ended: the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the Notes to the Group financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts 2015 the Annual Report, rather than in the Notes to the Group financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 19 million 2014: 14 million which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Audit scope We conducted our audit work over the complete financial information for 27 of the largest and highest risk reporting components located in the UK, Europe and South Africa.
In addition, we performed specific audit procedures on revenue and profits at two further reporting components and three joint ventures selected based on their relative materiality.
Where the operating businesses were located outside the UK, we worked together with our network firms located in the relevant territory to make sure we had sufficient evidence upon which to base our audit opinion.
Areas of focus Contract accounting and revenue recognition, focusing on profit margin determination and contracts involving judgement with respect to additional revenue based on cost and time completion incentive targets.
Valuation of acquired aircraft and intangible assets following the acquisition of the Avincis Mission Critical Services Group.
Defined benefit pension plan liabilities, focusing on the key assumptions within the valuation of the pension liability.
Goodwill impairment assessment of the goodwill primarily recognised on the VT Group and Avincis acquisitions.
Financials Financials 127 127 The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Contract accounting and revenue recognition We read all key contracts and discussed each with management Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements section to obtain a full understanding of the specific terms and risks, in note 1 to the Group financial statements.
which informed our consideration of whether revenue was The Groups business involves entering into contractual relationships appropriately recognised.
with customers to provide a range of services with a significant We evaluated and tested the relevant IT systems and tested proportion of the Groups revenues and profits derived from long the operating effectiveness of internal controls over the accuracy term contracts.
and timing of revenue recognised in the financial statements, Due to the contracting nature of the business, revenue recognition including controls relating to: involves a significant degree of judgement, with estimates being detailed contract reviews performed by management that made to: included estimating total costs, stage of completion of contracts, assess the total contract costs: profit margin and evaluating contract profitability: and assess the stage of completion of the contract: transactional controls that underpin the production of underlying contract related cost balances including the purchase to pay forecast the profit margin after taking consideration of and payroll cycles.
additional revenue relating to cost and time completion incentive targets: and Our testing of the controls did not identify any matters that caused us to change our audit approach.
appropriately provide for loss making contracts.
For the more significant and judgemental contracts we performed There is a broad range of acceptable outcomes resulting from these the following additional testing: judgements that could lead to different profit and revenue being attended managements contract review meetings to obtain reported in the financial statements.
an understanding of the performance and status of the contracts through discussion with the contract project teams: corroborated managements positions through the examination of externally generated evidence, such as customer correspondence: discussed and understood managements estimates for total contract costs and forecast costs to complete, including taking into account the historical accuracy of such estimates: compared managements position on the recognition of any cost and time completion incentive target amounts to the actual costs incurred and current progress of the contract: and using the knowledge obtained from this testing, challenged whether provisions for onerous contracts appropriately reflect the expected contractual position.
Our testing did not identify any factors that management had not taken into account in their estimates of the total contract costs, stage of completion and expected profit margin of each contract including the expected losses on loss making contracts.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 128 128 Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of acquired aircraft and intangible assets through We agreed the consideration paid back to the Sale and Purchase business combinations Agreement as well as the cash disbursements.
Refer to note 30 to the Group financial statements.
To assess the valuation of the customer relationship intangibles, During the year the Group completed its purchase of the we considered the competence and independence of the third Avincis Mission Critical Services Group.
As part of the acquisition party valuer by reference to their qualifications and experience.
accounting, accounting standards require this purchase price to We used our own valuation expertise and experience to challenge: be allocated between the acquired assets and liabilities, resulting in the reasonableness of the underlying valuation methodology: the recognition of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill.
the appropriateness and duration of the contractual cash The principal areas of judgement in managements purchase price flows used in the valuation by reference to the existing allocation exercise related to the valuation of the customer contractual terms: relationship intangibles and the valuation of the helicopter and fixed wing aircraft fleet.
the likelihood of contract renewal generating further revenues beyond the contracted period by reference to the historical Valuations of intangible assets are inherently complex and evidence of renewal: and judgemental due to the level of estimation uncertainty associated with forecasting future cash flows.
The key judgements that the discount rates used by assessing the cost of capital for the affected the purchase price allocation were: Group and country risk adjustments.
forecasting of the contractual cash flows: Based on our testing, we considered that the valuation model estimating the contract renewal rates: and used was appropriate for the customer relationships being valued and that the estimated inputs to the model were within determining the discount rates.
Management appointed a third party valuation expert to aid With regard to the valuation of the helicopter and fixed wing this process.
aircraft fleet, we assessed the competence and independence Management employed another third party valuation expert to of the third party valuer and challenged the valuation by: assist in the valuation of the acquired helicopter and fixed wing obtaining supporting evidence for the valuation decrease from fleet.
Whilst the valuation is primarily based on market transactions, net book value by comparison back to the historic losses on further judgement was applied where there have been limited disposal recognised across the fleet: recent market transactions or where there are current limitations obtaining evidence from sales agents to corroborate the prices and or flying restrictions imposed upon certain aircraft.
that certain helicopters are currently being marketed at: obtaining corroborating photographic evidence to support certain valuation decreases where aircraft had been dismantled and could not be readily returned to active service: and obtaining contract evidence to corroborate the switch in demand from one type of helicopter variant to another.
Based on our testing we did not consider the valuation of the aircraft recognised at acquisition to be materially misstated.
Financials Financials 129 129 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Defined benefit pension plan liabilities We assessed, using our actuarial expertise, evidence that the Refer to note 26 to the Group financial statements.
assumptions used in calculating the pension plan liabilities, The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans, including salary increases, inflation, mortality rate and discount giving rise to net pension liabilities of 169 million which are rate assumptions, were consistent with our internally developed significant in the context of the overall balance sheet of the Group.
benchmarks based on national and industry data.
We were satisfied that the rates used fell within acceptable ranges.
The valuation of pension liabilities requires judgement and technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
Changes in a We also performed sample testing to agree underlying membership number of the key assumptions, including: data to supporting human resources documentation and assessed salary increases and inflation: the appropriateness of the closing liability based on known movements and assumptions.
No issues were identified to raise discount rate: and concerns over the valuation of the pension liability.
mortality can have a material impact on the calculation of the liability.
The Group uses external actuaries to assist in assessing these assumptions.
Goodwill impairment assessment We evaluated managements future cash flow forecasts and the Refer to note 12 to the Group financial statements.
process by which they were determined and approved, including The goodwill balance of 2.5 billion, which principally relates to the checking that the forecasts were consistent with the latest Board acquisitions of the VT Group in 2010 and Avincis during the current approved budgets and confirming the mathematical accuracy of year, is supported by an annual impairment review.
No impairment the underlying calculations.
We also considered the accuracy of charge has been recorded against these balances in the current previous forecasts made by management.
We obtained corroborating evidence regarding the carrying value The value in use assessment to support the continued carrying of goodwill, and the related disclosures, through challenging: value for the goodwill involves the application of subjective key assumptions for growth rates in the cash flow forecasts judgement about future business performance.
Certain assumptions by comparing them to historical results, and economic made by management in the impairment review are considered by forecasts: and the engagement team to be key areas of judgement, notably the the discount rates by independently estimating a range based forecast cash flows, the overall growth rates and the discount on market data.
We performed sensitivity analysis around these assumptions to ascertain the extent of change that individually would be required for the goodwill to be impaired and noted no CGUs would be impaired if the cash flows decreased by 10% or the discount rate increased by 1%.
Based on our procedures we agreed with the Directors that no impairment should be recognised at 31 March 2015.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 130 130 Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is primarily structured and monitored across four divisions being Marine and Technology, Defence and Security, Support Services and International.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of multiple components, including both operating businesses reporting components and central functions.
The Groups reporting components vary significantly in size and we identified 27 reporting components that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information due to their size and risk.
Specific risk-based audit procedures on revenue and profits were performed at two further reporting components and three joint ventures.
In scope reporting components and joint ventures were based in several jurisdictions including the UK, Spain, Italy, Canada and South Africa.
Component audit procedures were performed by teams from local network firms in each location, including teams separate from the Group team for 20 UK components.
The Group audit team led the work in relation to the central functions, including specific procedures over the Group consolidation, financial statements disclosures, derivative financial instruments, goodwill impairment, pensions, treasury, tax and share based payments.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, the Group team determined the level of involvement needed in the audit work of each reporting component.
As a result, the Engagement Leader and senior members of the Group team undertook visits to 11 reporting components in the UK, Spain and Italy during the audit work, including the Groups only significant component, Devonport, which is visited every year.
Senior Group team members attended 26 of the reporting component audit clearance meetings in person or by conference call.
During both the site visits and the clearance meetings, the findings reported to the Group team by the component teams were discussed and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 19 million 2014: 14 million.
The increase in materiality reflects the enlarged size of Overall Group materiality the Group following the Avincis acquisition.
We used 5% of Group profit before taxation 313 million adjusted for the amortisation How we determined it of acquired intangibles 100 million.
Given the contractual nature of the business we adjusted for amortisation of acquired intangibles Rationale for benchmark applied on the basis this better reflects the true underlying size and nature of operations.
When a business is acquired the full value of contractual relationships are fair valued and included on balance sheet as intangible assets representing the future profitability of the contracts.
Not adjusting for this amortisation would therefore distort the true results of the underlying operations.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified Misstatements to be reported to the during our audit above 1 million 2014: 1 million as well as misstatements below that Audit Committee amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 124, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Financials Financials 131 131 Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on page 74 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or to report arising from this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 125, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to report arising from to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess this responsibility.
the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 84, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the to report arising from Audit Committee.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 132 132 Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement set out on page 124, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Babcock International Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2015 and on the information in the Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
John Baker Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 18 May 2015
