Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Barratt Developments PLC Opinion on the financial statements of Barratt Developments PLC Going concern In our opinion: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the Accounting policies on pages 112 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of to 117 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in statements is appropriate: and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a the Parent Company financial statements have been properly going concern.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the However, because not all future events or conditions can be Companies Act 2006: and predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards Our assessment of risks of material misstatement the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below, The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income which are the same risks as identified in the prior year, are statement, the Group and Parent Company statements of those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the comprehensive income, the Group and Parent Company allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the statements of changes in shareholders equity, the Group and engagement team.
Parent Company balance sheets, the Group and Parent Company cash flow statements, the Accounting policies, the Impact of standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective, the Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty and the related notes 1 to 36.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Carrying value of land and work in progress land 2,826.1m 2014: 2,348.4m, work in progress 1,287.4m 2014: 1,118.2m Refer to page 68 Audit Committee statement, page 119 Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty and page 134 financial statement disclosures The Groups assessment of the carrying Our work involved the following: value of land and work in progress, being We have tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the Groups controls relating to the the lower of cost and net realisable value, determination of costs to complete as this is the most significant judgement applied to each site valuation.
We attended a is a judgemental process.
This requires number of valuation meetings across all regions that review the carrying value of land and work in progress of individual the estimation of selling prices, sales sites.
A sample of sites were also visited to enable us to verify how surveyors measure the degree of build completion of rates and costs to complete, determined the developments against the costs incurred to date and to measure the subcontractor accruals at the year end.
These factors drive For multi-phased sites we have performed procedures to validate the appropriateness of actual and forecast margin the gross margin for each site and hence maintained across the individual phases of the entire site.
the profit recognised at the point of sale.
Revenue recognition on social housing We have reviewed the land acquisition appraisal process and viability assessment at acquisition and tested the design, developments accounted for under IAS implementation and operating effectiveness of the key controls.
11 Construction Contracts requires We have sample tested and agreed certain costs incurred to date included within land and work in progress as well as additional judgement in calculating the reviewing the proportion of that expenditure recognised as a cost of sale in the year in respect of units sold.
revenue and profit to be recognised, estimating the total expected costs to We have used IT interrogation tools to test the model prepared by Management to calculate the net realisable value of complete each site and the percentage of sites to ascertain the mechanical accuracy of the formulae being applied to the inputs to specific sites.
completion at the balance sheet date.
We have tested each of the key assumptions within Managements model on forecast sales values, sales rates and costs to complete which support the basis of the carrying value of land and work in progress.
We have compared the Groups assumptions to external market forecasts for sales price inflation and build cost inflation and have tested a sample of sites to current market data on sales rates, sales prices and cost assumptions.
We have also tested the accuracy of costs to complete assumptions on a sample basis.
We have performed independent sensitivity analysis, informed by external forecasts, to measure the impact on the carrying value of land and work in progress through possible deviations around the assumptions applied by management.
A sample of construction contracts for social housing developments have been tested by verifying the costs incurred to date and recalculating the percentage of completion at the balance sheet date.
A selection of these schemes have been reviewed with a sample of costs agreed to third party surveyors certificates, total sales values agreed to contracts, and the recognition formula verified to support revenue recognised.
Barratt Developments PLC 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Barratt Developments PLC continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of available for sale financial assets 107.0m 2014: 122.4m Refer to page 68 Audit Committee statement, page 119 Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty and page 133 financial statement disclosures The Groups available for sale financial Our work involved the following: assets, represented by shared equity We have tested the design and implementation of the Groups controls relating to Managements redemption properties, are held at fair value.
The assumptions on value and timing as these are the most significant judgements applied within the valuation.
assets represent loans granted as part The mathematical accuracy of the model has been reviewed through the use of IT interrogation tools to validate that the of housing sales transactions that are formulae and results are correctly applied and mapped to specific loans.
secured by way of a second charge on the respective property.
The valuation, We have tested each of the key assumptions underpinning the fair value model through comparison to historic experience which determines the level of provision of the Group in terms of redemption values and defaults, tested the consistency of assumptions employed by the Group to be recorded against the gross value of for forecast sales price inflation and compared the discount rate employed to the equivalent interest rate levied on a the loans granted, requires the exercise second charge loan of similar quantum and duration to the average loan issued by the Group.
Significant We have reviewed the forecast redemption profile for the various tranches of assets in line with the Groups redemption judgements are made in estimating the experience and against the underlying terms of the agreement to which the customer is bound.
We have performed timing and quantum of the future cash an analysis of geographical spread of the borrowers to support Managements expected redemption profile, including flows expected from the redemption of the consideration of the dispersion of the assets in determining the appropriate level of sales price inflation, default rate and loans, including an estimate of the market expected redemption date.
value of the property at the estimated time of repayment, and the determination of We have employed sensitivity analysis to the key assumptions to establish the quantum of the impact caused by flexing a suitable discount rate to calculate the certain inputs to the model.
present value of the cash flows.
We have reviewed the appropriateness of the disclosures provided in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, including the classification within the fair value hierarchy.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 892.2m 2014: 892.2m Refer to page 68 Audit Committee statement, page 119 Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty and pages 126 and 127 financial statement disclosures The Groups assessment of impairment Our work involved the following: of goodwill and intangible assets is a We have tested the design and implementation of the Groups controls relating to Managements impairment review of judgemental process which requires goodwill and intangible assets.
estimates concerning the forecast future We have tested the accuracy of the underlying model to assess whether the processes are applied to the correct input cash flows associated with the goodwill data and the outputs are mapped accurately.
and brand assets held, the discount rates and the growth rate of revenue and costs We challenged each of the key assumptions employed in the annual goodwill impairment test.
This included reference to to be applied in determining the value in our internal valuation specialists benchmarking of the weighted average cost of capital rate WACC employed as the use.
discount rate employed, including its methodology and constituent inputs, comparison to independent market forecasts of revenue and cost growth in the housebuilding sector and an assessment of the Groups historic forecasting accuracy.
We have tested Managements sensitivity analysis in relation to the key inputs to the goodwill impairment test model, as well as performing our own sensitivity analysis which included changes to volume, margin and the discount rate applied.
We have reviewed the appropriateness of the disclosures provided in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in An overview of the scope of our audit the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express The entire Group is audited by one audit team, led by the Senior an opinion on these individual matters.
The audit is performed centrally and comprises all of the divisions which comprise the Groups housebuilding Our application of materiality segment, the Groups commercial developments segment and We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the the head office consolidation.
We choose to visit the Groups three financial statements that makes it probable that the economic London housebuilding divisions each year, as well as five further decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be non-London housebuilding divisions across each of the Groups changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the regions, selected on a rotational basis and with reference to size scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
and complexity among other factors.
We also visit Wilson Bowden Developments Limited on an annual basis, which constitutes the We determined materiality for the Group to be 27.6m Groups commercial developments segment.
2014: 24.0m, which is calculated based on 5.0% 2014: 6.1% of statutory pre-tax profit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.55m 2014: 0.48m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express 2006: and an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and report for the financial year for which the financial statements Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK Matters on which we are required to report by exception and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, dedicated professional standards review team and independent in our opinion: partner reviews.
we have not received all the information and explanations we This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a require for our audit: or body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been state to the Companys members those matters we are required received from branches not visited by us: or to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the with the accounting records and returns.
Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
or for the opinions we have formed.
Directors remuneration Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies Corporate governance statement are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired Annual Report is: by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware materially inconsistent with the information in the audited of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we financial statements: or consider the implications for our report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the Mark Goodey Senior Statutory Auditor course of performing our audit: or for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP otherwise misleading.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired 8 September 2015 during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Barratt Developments PLC 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Consolidated Income Statement Year ended 30 June 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m Continuing operations Revenue 1, 2 3,759.5 3,157.0 Cost of sales 3,045.2 2,627.6 Gross profit 714.3 529.4 Administrative expenses 137.5 119.6 Profit from operations 3 576.8 409.8 Finance income 4 7.6 9.1 Finance costs 4 64.6 68.8 Net finance costs 4 57.0 59.7 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 13 45.4 40.6 Share of post-tax profit loss from associates 13 0.3 0.1 Profit before tax 565.5 390.6 Tax 6 115.2 85.2 Profit for the year 450.3 305.4 Profit for the year attributable to the owners of the Company 449.4 305.4 Profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interests 16 0.9 Earnings per share from continuing operations Basic 9 45.5p 31.2p Diluted 9 44.6p 30.4p The notes on pages 112 to 160 form an integral part of these Financial Statements.
