182 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc Directors remuneration Report on the parent company Other required reporting financial statements Directors remuneration report Consistency of other information CompaniesAct 2006 opinion Companies Act 2006 opinion Our opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors In our opinion, the information given in In our opinion, Berendsen plcs parent Remuneration Report to be audited has the Strategic Report and the Directors company financial statements the been properly prepared in accordance Report for the financial year for which financial statements : with the Companies Act 2006. the financial statements are prepared is a give a true and fair view of the state consistent with the financial statements.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting of the parent companys affairs as Under the Companies Act 2006 we ISAs UK & Ireland reporting at 31 December 2015 and of its cash are required to report to you if, in our ows for the year then ended: Under International Standards on opinion, certain disclosures of directors Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & a have been properly prepared in remuneration specified by law are not Ireland we are required to report to accordance with International made.
We have no exceptions to report you if, in our opinion, information in the Financial Reporting Standards arising from this responsibility.
Annual Report is: IFRSs as adopted by the European Responsibilities for the Union and as applied in accordance a materially inconsistent with the financial statements and with the provisions of the Companies information in the audited financial Act 2006: and statements: or theaudit a have been prepared in accordance a apparently materially incorrect based Our responsibilities and those with the requirements of the on, or materially inconsistent with, our ofthedirectors Companies Act 2006. knowledge of the parent company As explained more fully in the Directors acquired in the course of performing Responsibilities for the financial What we have audited our audit: or statements set out on page 109, The financial statements, included within a otherwise misleading.
the directors are responsible for the the Report and Accounts the Annual preparation of the financial statements We have no exceptions to report arising Report, comprise: and for being satisfied that they give a from this responsibility.
a the parent company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: Adequacy of accounting records and Our responsibility is to audit and express information and explanations received an opinion on the financial statements in a the parent company cash ow accordance with applicable law and ISAs statement forthe year then ended: Under the Companies Act 2006 UK & Ireland.
Those standards require weare required to report to you if, a the parent company statement us to comply with the Auditing Practices inour opinion: of changes inequity for the year Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
then ended: a we have not received all the This report, including the opinions, has information and explanations a the accounting policies: and been prepared for and only for the werequire for our audit: or parent companys members as a body a the notes to the financial a adequate accounting records have in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 statements, which include other not been kept by the parent company, of the Companies Act 2006 and for no explanatory information.
or returns adequate for our audit have other purpose.
We do not, in giving these The financial reporting framework that not been received from branches not opinions, accept or assume responsibility has been applied in the preparation of visited by us: or for any other purpose or to any other the financial statements is applicable law person to whom this report is shown a the financial statements and the part and IFRSs as adopted by the European or into whose hands it may come save of the Directors Remuneration Report Union and as applied in accordance where expressly agreed by our prior to be audited are not in agreement with the provisions of the Companies consent in writing.
with the accounting records Act 2006. and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 183 What an audit of financial statements Other matter involves We have reported separately on We conducted our audit in accordance the group financial statements of with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit Berendsen plc for the year ended involves obtaining evidence about the 31 December 2015. amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Matthew Mullins Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP assurance that the financial statements Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors are free from material misstatement, London whether caused by fraud or error.
25 February 2016 This includes an assessment of: a whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: a the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and a the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
