110 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc What we have audited Our audit approach Independent auditors report on the group Context The financial statements, included within Berendsen plc is listed on the London nancialstatements the Report and Accounts the Annual Stock Exchange.
The Group provides Report, comprise: Our opinion services across Europe and the structure a the Consolidated balance sheet as at of our audit continues to reect this, In our opinion, Berendsen plcs 31 December 2015: with a considerable amount of time Group financial statements the spent directing, communicating with financial statements : a the Consolidated income statement and visiting component audit teams.
and Consolidated statement of a give a true and fair view of the state of The business involves a very large comprehensive income for the year the Groups affairs as at 31 December number of relatively low value items, and then ended: 2015 and of its profit and cash ows the accounting for these in inventory and for the year then ended: a the Consolidated cash ow statement xed assets is an area of focus as a result.
for the year then ended: In terms of developments in the business a have been properly prepared in affecting our audit, the performance of accordance with International a the Consolidated statement of the German and Austrian Healthcare Financial Reporting Standards changes in equity for the year business was a focus of our work on the IFRSs as adopted by the then ended: carrying value of goodwill.
EuropeanUnion: and a the accounting policies: and a have been prepared in accordance a the notes to the financial with the requirements of the statements, which include other Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are crossreferenced from the financial statements and are identied as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 111 Overview The scope of our audit and our areas of focus a Overall group materiality: 5.9 million We conducted our audit in accordance 2014:5.8 million which represents Overall group materiality: 5.9 million with International Standards on Auditing 5% of profit before tax and which represents 5% of profit before UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining a We performed an audit of the materiality and assessing the risks of complete financial information of material misstatement in the financial eight operating reporting units and statements.
In particular, we looked at specified procedures at Sweden where the directors made subjective Materiality Sourcing, using a number of overseas judgements, for example in respect component audit teams.
of significant accounting estimates Goodwill impairment assessment: that involved making assumptions a The carrying value of goodwill is and considering future events that deemed to be an area of focus are inherently uncertain.
As in all of due to the judgements involved in our audits we also addressed the risk estimating future cash ows and of management override of internal applying appropriate assumptions.
controls, including evaluating whether Audit scope This is particularly relevant to the there was evidence of bias by the German and Austrian Healthcare cash directors that represented a risk of generating unit given the impairment material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement Misstatement in textile xed asset and that had the greatest effect on our inventory valuation and existence: audit, including the allocation of our a The valuation of textile xed assets is resources and effort, are identied Areas deemed to be an area of focus due as areas of focus in the table below.
of focus to the size of the asset on the balance We have also set out how we tailored sheet and the difficulty in tracking our audit to address these specic areas individual items and verifying their in order to provide an opinion on the useful economic lives: and financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of a The existence and valuation of our procedures should be read in this inventory due to the number of context.
This is not a complete list of all locations where inventory is held, risks identied by our audit.
especially at third party locations andthe absorption of freight costs and duty affecting the value at which the inventory is held.
Environmental liabilities: a The appropriateness of provisions recognised and the contingent liabilities disclosed in relation to historical environmental liabilities inanumber of locations.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 112 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment We focused on this area due to the size of the We evaluated the directors future cash ow forecasts, and the process goodwill balance 367m as at 31 December 2015 by which they were drawn up, including comparing them to the latest and because the directors assessment of the value Board approved budgets and testing the underlying calculations.
in use of the Groups cash generating units CGUs We found that management had followed a clear process for drawing involves judgement about the future results of the up the future cash ow forecasts, which were subject to timely oversight business and the discount rates applied to future and challenge by the directors and which were consistent with the cash ow forecasts.
We found no material misstatements in the calculations performed.
In particular we focused our audit effort on the goodwill recognised in relation to the German and We challenged the directors key assumptions for long term growth rates Austrian Healthcare CGU due to the impairment in the cash ows by comparing them to historical results and economic charge of 6.4m recognised in the current year.
We compared the current year actual results to the FY15 gures included in the prior year forecasts to consider whether any Refer also to note 8 to the financial statements, forecasts included assumptions that, with hindsight, had been optimistic.
page70 Audit Committee report and page 131 critical accounting estimates.
For the discount rate we assessed the cost of capital for the company and comparable organisations by performing a benchmark analysis and found it to be in line with our expectations.
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash ow forecasts, being: a the growth rates: a the operating profit applied for the first three years: and a the discount rate.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired for all CGUs, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising.
Management reassessed the market conditions in German and Austrian Healthcare and updated the forecats accordingly, leading to an impairment of the goodwill for this CGU.
We found the revised assumptions to be supported by the evidence management provided, although note than any change in these assumptions would have a direct impact on the value of the impairment charge.
We were also able to obtain sufficient evidence to support managements views on the key assumptions in the other CGUs, where no impairment charge was recognised.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 8 to the financial statements.
We found that they appropriately explain the impairment in German and Austrian Healthcare and describe the inherent degree of subjectivity in the estimates and the potential impact on future periods of revisions to these estimates.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 113 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Misstatement in textile xed asset and inventory Textile xed asset In each of the eight operating units where an audit of the complete financial information was performed, we carried out: Linen and workwear textiles are sold by the UK and Sweden Sourcing businesses to the operating a a comparison between asset classes of the carrying value and units within the Group as textile xed assets and depreciation charge for the year as a percentage of the revenue depreciated over their useful economic lives.
they generate: Other than in certain businesses which have a a substantive analytical review of the depreciation charge by asset introduced the individual tagging of garments in class ensuring depreciation is in line with group policy : and order to trace their day-to-day use, textile assets a a comparison of additions in the year to additions in the prior year, are homogeneously depreciated by textile category within each asset class to check they were reasonably consistent.
over their estimated useful economic lives currently between 20% and 40% per annum as stated in the Within the additions testing, we also tested that linen asset additions accounting policies on page 126. were allocated to the correct linen asset class and depreciated in line with other assets of a similar nature and in line with their useful These textiles are significant assets on the balance life expectancy.
sheet 221.9 million as at 31 December 2015.
Therefore, an over or understatement of the useful Additionally, at group level, we performed a reasonableness test by economic lives could lead to a material misstatement comparing additions between 2012 and 2015 to depreciation over the of depreciation for the year, affecting both the charge period to understand whether the assets are being replaced over a to the income statement and the valuation of the similar timeframe.
We found that capital expenditure on textile assets assets on the balance sheet.
was materially in line with depreciation where there had been no major change in the scale and nature of the business.
Taken together, these procedures gave us the evidence we needed in relation to the economic lives and depreciation of the relevant assets.
Inventory The group holds inventory at many locations, We performed audit procedures for operating reporting units with including a number that are owned by third parties.
There is a risk that inventory quantities will be Existence we attended the year-end stock counts that were performed misstated at one or more locations, particularly where by management at six locations and traced the stock count results to the inventory is not under the direct control of the group.
inventory system, checking that these were accurately recorded in the Inventory largely comes into the group through the year-end inventory balance.
UK and Sweden Sourcing businesses.
The allocations We obtained a sample of conrmations of inventory held directly by of freight and duty costs in the standard costing third parties at the balance sheet date and successfully reconciled these system are reviewed regularly but there is a risk to the year-end inventory balance.
that the standard cost of inventory items could be misstated.
Where stock counts were not performed at the balance sheet date, we tested the records of these counts to the year-end inventory balance via a sample of goods in outwards reports between the date of the count and the balance sheet date without noting any significant issues.
Valuation to address the risk of misstatement in the valuation of inventory, a sample of stock items held by the group was traced from the inventory system to third party purchase invoices.
We also tested the absorption of freight and duty costs to check they were incurred and appropriately allocated.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 114 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Environmental liabilities The group operates from laundries across Europe, We examined the groups latest assessment of the status of the legal claims and obtained conrmation from their external legal advisors of at which historic environmental liabilities may exist.
Though the group has indemnities from third parties the likelihood of the group successfully defending its position.
and expects to have the warranties confirmed in In Sweden we checked that the situation remains unchanged from full so as to incur no significant loss, it is currently the prior year and determined that the accounting for any potential defending legal claims in respect of certain environmental remediation as a contingent liability remains appropriate.
We read and were satisfied with the level of disclosure in note 30 to the Judgement is required to assess the likelihood of financial statements.
these liabilities crystallising, in order to assess whether In the Netherlands, we re-evaluated and challenged managements a provision should be recognised and, if so, the rationale for maintaining the level of provision consistent with the prior amount of that provision.
The total potential liability year with respect to clean up of the site.
From the evidence obtained is uncertain and would be affected by improvements we consider the level of provision to be acceptable in the context of in environmental clean-up technology and the future materiality and on the basis that the situation remains consistent with the use of the sites.
In Sweden, no amounts have been provided We obtained conrmations from external legal counsel and read other in the balance sheet with respect to any future correspondence supporting the recoverability of the asset recognised environmental liability as the value and the timing from third parties under historical warranties.
From the evidence of any cost to Berendsen is still unable to be obtained, we consider the current value of the asset recognised to determined.
As such, a contingent liability continues be supportable.
to be disclosed within the financial statements of the group.
In the Netherlands, management have recognised a provision on a specic site that is subject to a constructive obligation to incur environmental cleanup costs.
The amount recognised is the best estimate of the expenditure that will be incurred before any related recovery.
We focused on this area due to the judgement associated with assessing the level of provision to cover the future obligation.
Under the terms of its share purchase agreement with a third party on the acquisition of the site, the company expects to have this amount reimbursed under the terms of its warranties and has consequently accounted for the estimated receivable at fair value.
There is no change to the treatment in the current year compared to the prior year and therefore there has been no impact to the income statement.
Refer also to notes 18 and 30 to the financial statements, page 70 Audit Committee report and page 131 critical accounting estimates.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 115 How we tailored the audit scope The group consolidation, financial Going concern statement disclosures and a number We tailored the scope of our audit to Under the Listing Rules we are required of complex items were audited by ensure that we performed enough work to review the directors statement, set the group engagement team at the to be able to give an opinion on the out on page 108, in relation to going head office.
These include goodwill financial statements as a whole, taking concern.
We have nothing to report impairment, derivative financial into account the geographic structure of having performed our review.
instruments, hedge accounting, the the Group, the accounting processes and Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are Berendsen plc dened benefit pension controls, and the industry in which the required to report to you if we have scheme and share based payments.
anything material to add or to draw The Groups accounting process is attention to in relation to the directors Materiality structured around a local finance statement about whether they The scope of our audit was inuenced function in each of the 26 operating considered it appropriate to adopt the by our application of materiality.
reporting units under which the Group going concern basis in preparing the We set certain quantitative thresholds operates.
These functions maintain financial statements.
We have nothing for materiality.
These, together with their own accounting records and material to add or to draw attention to.
qualitative considerations, helped us to controls and report to the head office determine the scope of our audit and As noted in the directors statement, finance function in London through an the nature, timing and extent of our audit the directors have concluded that integrated consolidation system.
procedures on the individual financial it is appropriate to adopt the going In our view, due to their signicance and statement line items and disclosures and concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis or risk characteristics, eight of these in evaluating the effect of misstatements, units required an audit of their complete both individually and on the financial presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and financial information and we used statements as a whole.
component auditors from PwC network that the directors intend it to do so, for at Based on our professional judgement, least one year from the date the financial rms who are familiar with the local laws we determined materiality for the and regulations in each of the territories statements were signed.
As part of financial statements as a whole our audit we have concluded that the to perform this audit work.
as follows: directors use of the going concern basis In addition, specic audit procedures is appropriate.
However, because not a Overall group materiality were performed at the Sweden Sourcing 5.9 million 2014: 5.8 million : all future events or conditions can be reporting unit to address the risk predicted, these statements are not a identied in the existence and valuation a How we determined it guarantee as to the Groups ability to of inventory area of focus.
5% of profit before tax and continue as a going concern.
exceptional items: and Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the a Rationale for benchmark applied level of involvement we needed to have profit before tax and exceptional in the audit work at those functions to items provides a more consistent be able to conclude whether sufficient basisfor the audit year on year.
appropriate audit evidence had been We agreed with the audit committee obtained as a basis for our opinion on the that we would report to them group financial statements as a whole.
misstatements identied during our audit The Group engagement team visits above 0.3 million 2014: 0.3 million the component teams on a rotational as well as misstatements below that basis.
In the current year the group amount that, in our view, warranted engagement leader visited the Denmark, reporting for qualitative reasons.
Sweden, Netherlands, Germany and United Kingdom operating locations.
In addition, the group engagement team visited Norway.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 116 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc continued a the section of the Annual Report on Other required reporting We have nothing material to add or to page 70, as required by provision draw attention to.
Consistency of other information C. 3.8 of the Code, describing a the directors explanation on page 27 the work of the audit committee Companies Act 2006 opinions of the Annual Report, in accordance does not appropriately address In our opinion: with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to matters communicated by us to the a the information given in the Strategic how they have assessed the prospects audit committee.
report and the Directors report for the of the Group, over what period they We have no exceptions to report.
financial year for which the financial have done so and why they consider statements are prepared is consistent that period to be appropriate, and The directors assessment of the with the financial statements: and their statement as to whether they prospects of the Group and of the have a reasonable expectation that a the information given in the Corporate principal risks that would threaten the the Group will be able to continue governance statement set out on solvency or liquidity of the Group in operation and meet its liabilities pages 59 to 77 with respect to Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are as they fall due over the period of internal control and risk management required to report to you if we have their assessment, including any systems and about share capital anything material to add or to draw related disclosures drawing attention structures is consistent with the attention to in relation to: to any necessary qualications financial statements.
a the directors conrmation on page 26 ISAs UK & Ireland reporting of the Annual Report, in accordance We have nothing material to add or to with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, draw attention to.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we that they have carried out a robust are required to report to you if, Under the Listing Rules we are required assessment of the principal risks inour opinion: to review the directors statement facing the Group, including those that they have carried out a robust a information in the Annual Report is: that would threaten its business assessment of the principal risks materially inconsistent with the model, future performance, solvency facing the Group and the directors information in the audited financial or liquidity.
statement in relation to the longer-term statements: or We have nothing material to add or to viability of the Group.
Our review was apparently materially incorrect draw attention to.
substantially less in scope than an audit based on, or materially inconsistent and only consisted of making inquiries with, our knowledge of the Group a the disclosures in the Annual Report and considering the directors process acquired in the course of performing that describe those risks and explain supporting their statements: checking our audit: or how they are being managed that the statements are in alignment with o therwise misleading.
the relevant provisions of the Code: and We have no exceptions to report.
considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired a the statement given by the directors by us in the course of performing our on page 77, in accordance with audit.
We have nothing to report having provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate performed our review.
Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 117 We do not, in giving these opinions, Other matter Adequacy of information and accept or assume responsibility for any We have reported separately on explanations received other purpose or to any other person to the parent company financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we whom this report is shown or into whose statements of Berendsen plc for the are required to report to you if, in our hands it may come save where expressly year ended 31 December 2015 and opinion, we have not received all the agreed by our prior consent in writing.
on the information in the Directors information and explanations we require remuneration report that is described for our audit.
We have no exceptions to What an audit of financial as having been audited.
report arising from this responsibility.
statementsinvolves Matthew Mullins Senior Statutory Auditor An audit involves obtaining evidence Directors remuneration for and on behalf of  LLP about the amounts and disclosures in Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Under the Companies Act 2006 we the financial statements sufficient to give London are required to report to you if, in our reasonable assurance that the financial opinion, certain disclosures of directors 25 February 2016 statements are free from material remuneration specified by law are not misstatement, whether caused by fraud made.
We have no exceptions to report or error.
This includes an assessment of: Notes: arising from this responsibility.
a whether the accounting policies a The maintenance and integrity of the Berendsen plc website is the responsibility are appropriate to the Groups Corporate governance statement of the directors: the work carried out by circumstances and have been Under the Companies Act 2006 we the auditors does not involve consideration consistently applied and of these matters and, accordingly, the are required to report to you if, in adequately disclosed: auditors accept no responsibility for any our opinion, a corporate governance changes that may have occurred to the statement has not been prepared by the a the reasonableness of significant financial statements since they were initially parent company.
We have no exceptions accounting estimates made by the presented on the website.
to report arising from this responsibility.
directors: and b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Under the Listing Rules we are required a the overall presentation of the financial statements may differ from to review the part of the Corporate financial statements.
legislation in other jurisdictions governance statement relating to ten We primarily focus our work in these further provisions of the Code.
We have areas by assessing the directors nothing to report having performed judgements against available evidence, our review.
forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Responsibilities for the financial statements.
financial statements and the We test and examine information, using audit sampling and other auditing techniques, Our responsibilities and those to the extent we consider necessary to ofthedirectors provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence As explained more fully in the Directors through testing the effectiveness of responsibilities for the financial controls, substantive procedures or a statements set out on page 109, combination of both.
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements In addition, we read all the financial and for being satisfied that they give a and non-financial information in the true and fair view.
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Our responsibility is to audit and express financial statements and to identify an opinion on the financial statements in any information that is apparently accordance with applicable law and ISAs materially incorrect based on, or UK & Ireland.
Those standards require materially inconsistent with, the us to comply with the Auditing Practices knowledge acquired by us in the Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
course of performing the audit.
If we This report, including the opinions, has become aware of any apparent material been prepared for and only for the misstatements or inconsistencies we parent companys members as a body consider the implications for our report.
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
