berkeley AnnuAl report 2015 finAnciAls Independent Auditors report to the members of The Berkeley Group Holdings plc Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of The Berkeley Group Holdings plc for the year ended 30 April 2015 set out on pages 94 to 125.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 April 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: The risk Our response Carrying value of inventories and profit recognition inventories: Our audit procedures in respect of this area included: 2,654.1m, gross profit: 716.8m Testing the Groups controls by checking approvals over reviewing and Refer to page 64 Audit Committee Report, pages 99 and 100 updating selling price and cost forecasts, authorising and recording of accounting policy and page 112 financial disclosures costs.
The Group recognises profit on each sale by reference to the overall We inspected the minutes and attended a selection of managements site margin, which is the forecast profit percentage for a site that cost review meetings.
At these meetings management review may comprise multiple phases and can last a number of years.
The actual costs and revenues against detailed site budgets.
Estimates recognition of profit is therefore dependent on the Groups estimate of future costs and selling prices in the forecasts are challenged by of future selling prices and build costs, which form the basis of the site management including reference to tendered works packages, actual forecast.
costs incurred and forward sales reservation prices.
Our inspection of the minutes and attendance at a selection of meetings included Future selling prices are dependent on market conditions, which can assessing whether the appropriate individuals attended the meetings be difficult to predict.
Future build costs are subject to a number and that the valuations and costs to complete forecasts for all of variables including the accuracy of designs, market conditions in developments were discussed, challenged and the valuations updated respect of materials and sub-contractor cost and construction issues.
Inventory represents the costs of land, materials, design and related We inspected the site forecasts, on a sample basis, and challenged the production and site costs to date.
It is held at the lower of cost and assumptions for future costs and sales.
net realisable value, the latter also being based on the forecast for the site.
As such errors in these forecasts can impact the assessment over We corroborated a sample of forecast costs back to supplier the carrying value of inventories and gross profit.
We also considered the appropriateness of allowances made for cost increases and for risks inherent in longer There is a risk that the actual revenue and costs are different to those term developments.
We agreed a sample of additions in the inventory forecast across whole sites resulting in material misstatement of balance to invoices and or payments, including checking that they inventory and gross profit recognised.
were allocated to the appropriate site and development phase and There is also a risk that costs are inappropriately recognised within met the definition of inventory costs.
inventories or that the allocation of costs that relate to the whole site, For all significant new land acquisitions and a sample of other land such as land and infrastructure, is inappropriate across development acquisitions we inspected purchase contracts to understand the phases, resulting in a material misstatement of inventory or gross terms and any deferred or contingent payments.
the calculation of such amounts to check the amounts recorded.
For a sample of both pre-development and active sites we evaluated the reliance on planning and other third party actions to achieve the forecast and considered the impact on carrying values.
We compared the margin recognised in the year on any units sold to the forecast site margin over the life of the development.
We evaluated the sensitivity of the margin to a change in sales prices and costs and considered whether this indicated a risk of impairment of the inventory balance.
We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures over inventory and the degree of judgement and estimation involved in arriving at the forecast and resultant profit.
90 03 BERKAR15 IndAuditors 90-93. indd 90 14 07 2015 10:22 Strategic report governance FinancialS berkeley AnnuAl report 2015 finAnciAls The risk Our response Revenue recognition 2,120.0m Our audit procedures in respect of this area included: Refer to page 64 Audit Committee Report and page 99 accounting Testing controls over property sales including: policy.
documentation evidencing internal and third party physical It is the Groups policy to recognise 100% of revenue on property units inspection and confirmation of build complete status: when contracts are exchanged and the building work is physically customer signature in acceptance of the physical condition of the complete, being the point at which the Group is satisfied it has property: and discharged its obligations to the buyer.
Contract exchange, including the payment of a deposit, may have occurred sometime in the past.
customer background checks including checks of availability of However, the legal completion of the sale, being the point at which the funds balance of the sale is paid for and title transfers, remains dependent For a sample of property sales in the year, we performed the following on the receipt of final payment.
The recognition of revenue is generally test: before legal completion, and as such is potentially more subjective than recognising at the latter point.
inspected the paperwork confirming legal completion The risk is that the unit is not physically complete or that the buyer For a sample of sales recorded close to the year end where the final does not complete the purchase, as should either of these be the case payment was not yet received, we performed the following tests: the revenue should not be recognised.
performed site visits to verify build completion status: The group also recognised revenue and resultant profit on the inspected the internal sign-off sheets to check that sales recorded disposal of a portfolio of ground rents in the period.
A second tranche in the year had gone through the Groups approval process for sale of ground rent sales is due to complete after the balance sheet of properties: date.
The risk pertaining to the sale of ground rents in both tranches is whether the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets have after the year end, and up to the date of signing the audit report, transferred to the purchaser at the balance sheet date and that the we confirmed whether final payments from buyers had been made transaction is recorded appropriately in the financial statements.
and appeared as receipts in the bank statements.
Where significant amounts were still outstanding we considered other information, such as correspondence agreeing subsequent payment and reasons for this, or reasons for known recessions, in evaluating the recoverability of these amounts and appropriateness of related revenue recognition.
We also performed a physical inspection on a sample of properties for which the sale had not been recognised to check that these did not meet this criterion for revenue recognition.
We also used data analytics to look at journal entries posted throughout the period that impacted revenue to make sure the journals were appropriate.
We reviewed the contracts for the sale of ground rent assets that exchanged and completed in the period, as well as that which had not completed as at the balance sheet date.
We considered the respective treatments in conjunction with the revenue recognition principles of the groups accounting policy and those under EU-IFRS to ascertain if revenue and profit is appropriately recognised in the correct accounting period.
In particular we considered the transfer of risks and rewards made under the agreement and timing of these.
We have recalculated the profit on disposal recorded for the transaction completed in the period, and verified revenue recorded to the sale agreement.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the judgements taken in recognising revenue for property units prior to legal completion and the adequacy of the disclosure of the Groups accounting policy with regards to sales of ground rent assets, and the disclosure of the two transactions undertaken.
91 03 BERKAR15 IndAuditors 90-93. indd 91 14 07 2015 10:22 berkeley AnnuAl report 2015 finAnciAls Independent Auditors report to the members of The Berkeley Group Holdings plc continued The risk Our response Provisions 75.1m Our audit procedures in respect of this area included: Refer to page 64 Audit Committee Report, page 100 accounting Enquiring of Group and divisional Directors and inspecting board policy and page 113 financial disclosures minutes for actual and potential claims arising in the year, and challenging whether provisions are required for these claims.
The Group holds provisions in respect of claims and construction related liabilities that have arisen, or that prior claims experience For all significant known issues and claims provided for we inspected indicates may arise, subsequent to the completion of certain the calculation of the provision held and compared this to third party developments, as well as in relation to other matters of litigation.
The determination and valuation of provisions is judgmental by For claims that past events indicated may arise, we evaluated settled its nature and there is a risk that the estimate is incorrect and the issues and considered any differences in the development portfolio provision is materially misstated.
then and now, such as increasing complexity of construction, as evidence for the calculation of the provision.
In respect of open matters of litigation, we had discussions with the Groups external legal advisors and reviewed correspondence in respect of these matters.
We assessed each provision against the requirements of the relevant accounting standards and the Groups policy and assessed whether the Groups disclosures disclose the potential liabilities of the Group in accordance with accounting standards.
Share-based payment recognition 55.5m Our audit procedures in respect of this area included: Refer to page 64 Audit Committee Report, page 100 accounting We made inquiries of the directors to understand the share-based policy and page 103 financial disclosures payment schemes in place and the changes made to the awards and inspected communications made to scheme members regarding Share-based payments is a complex accounting area and there these changes.
We agreed the terms of settlement to the revised is a risk in the financial statements that amounts are incorrectly scheme documents.
We considered whether the modifications met recognised and or inappropriately disclosed.
the criteria for a change in accounting treatment and whether the The Group also changed the method of settlement on its share-based accounting treatment was appropriate.
We also considered whether long term incentive plan awards which vest in April 2015 and April the modification impacted the treatment of other awards by setting 2016 from equity-settled to cash-settled.
This requires further complex an expectation regarding settlement.
For equity-settled options we recalculated the estimated charge which reflected the best estimate of the number of options expected to vest.
For cash-settled schemes we inspected the vesting price and recalculated the amounts to be recognised in the financial statements.
We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the judgements taken in the choice of equity or cash settled recognition treatment.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations Our audit procedures in respect of this area included: Refer to page 64 Audit Committee Report Obtaining an understanding of the relevant legal and regulatory framework within which the Group operates and assessing the design The Group is subject to a number of laws and regulations.
These and operation of its key controls over this framework.
include, but are not limited to, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, sanctions checking and those relevant to publicly traded companies.
We discussed the applicable policies and procedures with divisional and group management, including internal legal counsel.
We reviewed Failure to comply with any of these applicable laws and regulations Board papers, and internal audit reports for any recorded instances could have a material financial and reputational impact on the of potential non-compliance, and maintained a high level of vigilance business.
when carrying out our other audit procedures for indications of nonThe Directors have conducted a review of their policies in these areas, compliance.
during the year and did not record any material instances of nonWe reviewed the Groups documentation and correspondence with compliance.
respect to relevant legal matters.
We had discussions with the Groups external legal advisors in respect of these matters.
92 03 BERKAR15 IndAuditors 90-93. indd 92 14 07 2015 10:22 Strategic report governance FinancialS berkeley AnnuAl report 2015 finAnciAls 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 22.5m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation excluding profit on ground rent disposal, of 454.6m, of which it represents 5%.
We report to the audit committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 1.1m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 14 reporting components, we subjected 8 to audits for group reporting purposes.
Our procedures for group reporting purposes covered balances that accounted for 88% of Group revenue: 94% of Group profit before taxation and 86% of Group total assets.
For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The work on all components was performed by the Group audit team using component materialities ranging from 2.3m to 11.3m having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 86, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 60 relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 86, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Sean McCallion Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 30 June 2015 93 03 BERKAR15 IndAuditors 90-93. indd 93 14 07 2015 10:22
