Independent auditors report To the Members of Bodycote plc In our opinion: Opinion on the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys financial affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups and the Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: statements of Bodycote plc the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Statement of Group and Company Accounting Policies and the related notes to the consolidated financial statements notes 1 to 30 and to the company financial statements notes 1 to 14.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of Going concern the going concern basis of accounting on page 23 and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the and the directors Group on page 27. assessment of the principal We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: risks that would the directors confirmation on page 24 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks threaten the facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or solvency or liquidity: liquidity of the the disclosures on pages 24 to 26 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or Group mitigated: the directors statement on page 23 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the directors explanation on page 23 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm Independence that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit Our assessment strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The significant of risks of risks identified below are consistent with those in the previous year, with the addition of the risk regarding material Restructuring provisions for this report.
misstatement The Audit Committee has requested that, whilst not required under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we include in our report any significant key observations in respect of these assessed risks of material misstatement.
indd 75 04 03 2016 16:02:49 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report continued To the Members of Bodycote plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Impairment of non-current assets The Group has a significant non-current asset base We challenged the assumptions used in the Based on the procedures including tangible fixed assets of 429.6m and impairment model for intangible and tangible assets.
performed, no intangible assets including goodwill of 175.2m as As part of our procedures we: impairments were noted shown in notes 11, 12 and 13 respectively.
Current and we have concluded considered the appropriateness of the growth macro-economic uncertainties result in a risk regarding that the assumptions in rate assumptions by comparing them to historical the carrying value of these assets.
Performing an the impairment model trading performance and World Bank historical impaiment review of these non-current assets requires were appropriate.
GDP data across the Groups geographical and the exercise of significant judgement regarding market segments: future growth rates, discount rates and sensitivity assumptions, as described in note 11 and the key assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions sources of estimation uncertainty within the accounting concerning inputs to the discount rate against policies on page 86. latest market expectations.
In performing our procedures, we used our internal valuation specialists and third party evidence to assess the individual inputs to the discount rates of between 12.4% and 13.4% applied as described in note 11: and considered managements assertions of the future utilisation of assets supporting their carrying value by reviewing the strategic plan for the business by cash generating unit.
Environmental remediation provisions Given the nature of the Groups operations and We evaluated the environmental provisions by Based on the results potential environmental contamination which could undertaking the following testing: of work carried out have arisen historically, a risk arises in connection we concur that the comparing the basis for the recognition of with the appropriateness and completeness of the provision recognised provisions against the regulatory and legal 13.2m environmental remediation provisions.
The risk by management is in requirements: specifically applies to the level of judgement involved accordance with IAS in calculating the provisions required and to the 37.
We also concur assessing the value of the provision recognised: likely period of utilisation, as described in the Critical with managements and judgments within the accounting policies.
assessment that the challenging the status and utilisation of provisions.
impact of discounting the provision is not material.
As part of our audit procedures we reviewed the available third party evidence collated by managements experts and assumptions detailing the assessment of environmental liabilities for the Group together with correspondence from the Groups internal environmental remediation team.
We considered the appropriateness of the qualifications of managements experts and have benchmarked the Groups accounting policy against comparator companies.
We have also considered the requirement to discount the balance should the impact of doing so be material and audited managements calculation for this assessment.
76 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 9:11 AM PROOF 5 Bodycote Annual Report 2015 - back.
indd 76 04 03 2016 16:02:49 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Taxation deferred tax assets and tax provisions The tax risk concerns the judgements and estimates We have assessed and challenged the From the work performed applied in the determination of tax balances, in appropriateness of managements assumptions and we are satisfied that the particular in relation to the recognition of the 31.2m estimates in relation to the likelihood of generating assumptions applied in deferred tax asset balance for which an amount of future taxable, as opposed to accounting, profits respect of the Income 3.1m is recognised in relation to 14.1m of tax to support the recognition of deferred tax assets Statement and the losses across the Group based on future profitability, by comparing to forecast information and historical carrying value of amounts as disclosed in note 20 and provisions for liabilities trends in loss utilisation.
In conjunction with our held on the balance sheet attributed to specific uncertain tax positions linked to taxation audit specialists, we have also assessed regarding current and the Groups corporate arrangements.
the assumptions and judgements concerning the deferred tax balances are adequacy of tax provisions for uncertain tax positions appropriate.
by viewing the latest correspondence from the various tax authorities and drawing on the experience of our tax specialists in respect of similar situations.
Pensions liability assumptions for defined benefit We have assessed the appropriateness of the schemes From the work performed assumptions underpinning the valuation of the This risk concerns the appropriateness of the actuarial we are satisfied that scheme liabilities.
Specifically we challenged the assumptions applied in calculating the Groups defined the assumptions discount rate, inflation and mortality assumptions benefit liability of 99.9m 2014: 103.3m within the applied in respect of the applied in the calculation by using our internal pension net defined benefit liability of 2.7m 2014: 1.0m as valuation of the Groups specialists to benchmark the assumptions applied shown in note 30.
The valuation of the Groups IAS 19 IAS 19 liabilities are against comparable third party data and assessed the liability involves significant judgement as described materially correct and are appropriateness of the assumptions in the context of in note 30 and in the key sources of estimation considered to be towards the Groups own position.
uncertainty in the accounting policies, in particular in the prudent end of our relation to the discount rate, inflation and mortality benchmarked range.
Restructuring provisions During 2015 the Group has implemented a significant We evaluated the restructuring provisions by From the work performed global restructuring programme driven by the fall in comparing the basis for the recognition of provisions we are satisfied that the global oil prices along with widespread softer economic to assess whether the recognition criteria of a provisions recognised conditions, both of which have combined to cause constructive obligation arising from a past event were complete, valid and a notable fall in demand for many types of industrial are satisfied, assessing the value of the provision appropriately utilised and equipment and machinery.
This restructuring has led to recognised and challenging the status and utilisation appropriately presented management recognising a net exceptional charge of of provisions.
Additionally we have assessed the disclosure of the A risk exists regarding the completeness, utilisation costs incurred within the Income Statement to assess and validity of the provision as shown in note 23. whether those costs described as exceptional are in There is also a risk relating to ensuring the appropriate accordance with the Groups policy for exceptional classification of these costs in the Income Statement costs as per note 5. as exceptional items in accordance with the Groups policy.
indd 77 04 03 2016 16:02:49 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report continued To the Members of Bodycote plc The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by Our application the Audit Committee discussed on page 50 and 51. of materiality These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 4.8m 2014: 4.9m, which is below 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit, which has been determined to be the most stable basis of underlying performance 2014: 5% of pre-tax profit, and below 1% 2014: 1% of equity.
The adjustment to pre-tax profit relates to the adding back of exceptional restructuring costs of 20.0m in order to use an underlying pre-tax profit base for materiality.
There were no such exceptional costs in 2014.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.15m 2014: 0.145m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, An overview of the scope including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
of our audit Revenue Based on this assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at thirteen countries, being USA, UK, France, Italy, Germany, Poland, Sweden, Netherlands, Czech Republic, Turkey, Singapore, China and Mexico.
Consistent with the prior year and as agreed with the Audit Committee, the smaller components in territories such as China, Singapore and Mexico have remained in scope and we have maintained the scoping levels in territories such as Netherlands, Luxembourg, Germany and Turkey.
In 2015 we have continued to have direct Group oversight, leadership and control over the components of the Group accounted for in the US Shared Service Centre SSC and in conjunction with our Czech component audit team we jointly audited the components of the Group accounted for at the Prague SSC.
Full audit scope 86% As a consequence of the audit scope determined, we achieved coverage of approximately 86% 2014: 86% of revenue, 99% 2014: 97% of profit before tax and 91% 2014: 88% of net assets.
Review at group level 14% Our audit work at each location was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which was lower than Group materiality.
Component materiality ranged from 0.5m to 2.5m 2014: 0.5m to 2.9m.
Profit before tax The Group audit team continued to follow a program of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the locations included as full scope for the Group audit at least once every three years and the most significant of them at least once a year.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, attend close meetings by conference call and review documentation of the findings from their work.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of Full audit scope 99% specified account balances.
Review at group level 1% Net assets Full audit scope 91% Review at group level 9% 78 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 9:11 AM PROOF 5 Bodycote Annual Report 2015 - back.
indd 78 04 03 2016 16:02:50 In our opinion: Opinion on other matters the part of the Board report on remuneration to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the prescribed by the Companies Act 2006: and Companies Act the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the 2006 financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: explanations received we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or and accounting adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit records have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration remuneration have not been made or the part of the Board report on remuneration to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Statement the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the information in the annual report is: Annual Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for responsibilities of the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our directors and auditor responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
indd 79 04 03 2016 16:02:50 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report continued To the Members of Bodycote plc Scope of the audit An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to of the financial give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused statements by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Mullins FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 25 February 2016 80 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 9:11 AM PROOF 5 Bodycote Annual Report 2015 - back.
