Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Booker Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Measurement of onerous lease provisions 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is Refer to page 27 Audit Committee Report, page 68 accounting policy and page 84 financial disclosures.
unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Booker Group plc The risk The Group has recorded provisions at the year for the period ended 27 March 2015 set out on pages 58 to end in respect of onerous leases for vacant properties.
In our opinion: estimation of these provisions at each period end requires a significant degree of judgement and the application of certain the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assumptions, including the expected cash flows associated state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs with the properties over the remaining lease term, the expected as at 27 March 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year utilisation of the properties, and the rate used to discount future then ended: cash flows to account for the time value of money.
As such there the Group financial statements have been properly prepared is a risk that the provision, and associated charges or credits in accordance with International Financial Reporting in the statement of comprehensive income, are materially Standards as adopted by the European Union: misstated through the use of inappropriate assumptions.
the parent company financial statements have been Our response Our procedures included, for a sample of properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting properties, critically evaluating the underlying assumptions Standards: and applied by the Directors.
In doing so we compared the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance underlying assumptions described above to the Groups with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as supporting information, including the individual circumstances regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the relevant to each property and the Directors expectations going IAS Regulation.
We read Board minutes to compare the assumptions in relation to the proposed usage of the properties with the 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement documented plans noted in those minutes, where available.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements We held enquiries with the Groups internal qualified property the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect specialists in relation to the key assumptions within the on our audit were as follows: calculations, including the discount rate and the forecasts for sublet income within the calculations where the Directors Valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme are expecting to sublet vacant properties to third parties.
Refer to page 27 Audit Committee Report, page 65 We critically evaluated the discount rate used to discount accounting policy and page 82 financial disclosures.
forecast cash flows associated with the properties, through the utilisation of our valuation specialist, and by evaluating The risk Significant estimates are made in valuing the the sensitivity of the provisions to changes in the rate used.
Groups post-retirement defined benefit scheme, including in We performed additional sensitivity analysis to understand particular the discount rate used to discount the retirement the impact of changes to other key assumptions within the benefit obligation, the inflation assumptions adopted and the calculation of the provisions, including forecast cash outflow assumptions in respect of mortality.
Small changes in the and inflow assumptions and property utilisation rates.
We also assumptions used in the valuation of the Groups net pension re-performed the calculation of the provisions to ensure that deficit could have a significant effect on the results and financial they had been calculated correctly and that the discounting of position of the Group.
the cash flows had been correctly performed.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included testing of the controls over the maintenance of the schemes membership data, as well as sample testing from that data to the source documentation establishing the obligation to members, and vice versa.
With the support of our own actuarial specialists, we then challenged the key assumptions applied to that data to determine the Groups net deficit.
This included a comparison of these key assumptions against external market data, where appropriate, such as bond yield curves of comparable duration to the Groups scheme.
In addition, we developed an expectation for the amount of benefits paid in the year and compared that with the amount actually paid.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to the pension scheme.
56 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of you if, in our opinion: the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole adequate accounting records have not been kept by the was set at 7.1m, determined with reference to a benchmark of parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not Group profit before tax of 138.8m, of which it represents 5.1%.
been received from branches not visited by us: or We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected the parent company financial statements and the part of identified misstatements exceeding 0.35m, in addition to the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on agreement with the accounting records and returns: or qualitative grounds.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Of the Groups seven reporting components, we subjected we have not received all the information and explanations three to audits for Group reporting purposes and the remaining we require for our audit.
four to reviews including enquiry of financial information.
The latter were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but provided us Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: with additional audit coverage.
Our work covered 100% of the Groups profit before tax, revenues and total assets.
the Directors statement, set out on page 17, in relation to going concern: and The Group audit team carried out the work on all the components at the Groups offices in Wellingborough, Deeside and Eccles.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page Component materialities ranged between 5m and 6m.
20 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the specified for our review.
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
In our opinion: Scope and responsibilities the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Companies Act 2006: and Statement set out on page 55, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being the information given in the Strategic Report and the satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description Directors Report for the financial year for which the of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided financial statements are prepared is consistent with the on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters important explanations and disclaimers regarding our on which we are required to report by exception responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an we have identified other information in the annual report that understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: Nicola Quayle Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor we have identified material inconsistencies between the Chartered Accountants knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors 1 St Peters Square statement that they consider that the annual report and Manchester financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and M2 3AE understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business 20 May 2015 model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
