Auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Bovis Homes Group PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Bovis Homes Group PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual report and accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Balance sheets as at 31 December 2015: the Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group and Company statements of cash flows for the year then ended: the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 8,000,000 which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Materiality The Group primarily operates through one main trading entity, structured into six regions, being Central, Eastern, Western, Southern, South West and Northern.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of these six regional reporting units and the centralised group functions.
Audit We conducted our audit work at all six regions which together account for 100% of scope Group revenue, 99% of Group profit before tax and 99% of net assets.
Margin forecasting and recognition Areas of Carrying value of inventory focus Valuation of available for sale assets shared equity Accounting for complex land acquisitions 86 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Margin forecasting and recognition Refer to page 74 of the Audit Committee Report.
At a regional level we tested managements forecasting and monitoring controls, including attendance at a selection of The Groups margin recognition is based on the following: the surveyor and financial appraisal meetings.
We noted no instances where controls were not operating as stated.
Sales price allocated to each plot on an actual basis We have tested a sample of sales prices to receipts to support Build costs allocated to each plot on an actual costs basis the revenue recognised, noting no material exceptions.
Site wide costs, including infrastructure costs and land the We have tested a sample of costs incurred to third party total expected cost for the site including an estimated cost to supplier invoices, noting no material exceptions.
complete is allocated to each plot based on the Groups land factor model We gained an understanding of any significant differences that had arisen between the forecast cost and actual cost Periodic surveyor and financial appraisals are performed to incurred on ongoing sites, the drivers for these variances and determine the costs to date and work in progress based upon checked that the changes had been appropriately reflected in the stage of completion of each unit and the build costs and the accounting records.
We did not identify any sites where we estimated costs to complete are updated accordingly.
At each considered the underlying assumptions around site wide costs half year and full year the costs to date and estimated costs to for the remainder of the development to be inappropriate.
complete are reconciled to the value of production on site, via the CV model, in order to provide assurance to the cost of sales We have assessed the historical accuracy of managements recognised in the period.
forecasting through review of actual margins achieved on completed sites compared to initial expected margins, noting If the costs allocated to a unit are expected to exceed the no significant adverse trends.
estimated sales price then a shortfall is recognised in the Income Statement at that time.
We also tested that the CV model correctly recalculated the cost apportionment following cost and stage of completion There is uncertainty within the cost to complete estimate from amendments made by management.
We did not identify any potential changes in the market conditions e. g. cost inflation or material exceptions in this regard.
This could result in the assumptions being inaccurate and an incorrect margin being recognised.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 87 Auditors report Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Carrying value of inventory Refer to page 74 of the Audit Committee Report and page We considered margins for all major sites to identify those 101 of the financial statements.
with low or eroding margins, for example due to specific issues or underperformance.
We discussed the identified Inventory is comprised of land held for development, work sites with management, including considering the level of in progress, raw materials and completed units part provisions held against these sites and corroborated the exchange properties.
explanations with other external evidence in respect of the Land held for development and raw materials are held at carrying value of inventory.
Work in progress is made up of the cost of the land We tested the percentage completion of units across a being built on, direct materials and, where applicable, direct sample of sites and checked that forecasts have been labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred appropriately updated for costs incurred to date and in bringing the inventories to their present location and expected costs to completion.
Completed units are held at build cost and part exchange properties are held at the market value determined We also assessed the historical accuracy of managements at the time of exchange.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable We considered the composition of the inventory balance value NRV, NRV being the estimated net selling and the level and ageing of completed but unreserved price less estimated costs to complete based on units and part exchange properties in assessing the managements forecasts.
appropriateness of their recoverable amount.
Due to the cyclical nature of the housing industry and issues We checked that appropriate site acquisition approvals experienced during the build programme, there is a risk that considering site profitability had been obtained for the NRV of the inventory is lower than cost and therefore significant sites.
inventory is stated at an incorrect value.
Based upon the procedures performed, we did not identify any sites where we determined that additional impairments were required in the year, above those already made by management.
Valuation of available for sale assets shared equity Refer to page 74 of the Audit Committee Report and page We tested the mechanics and base data of the valuation 104 of the financial statements.
model and through discussion with management understood the key assumptions included within the model.
Shared equity assets are held at fair value and comprise longWe then evaluated and challenged these assumptions with term receivables from shared equity schemes.
The valuation our own independent research on house prices method for these assets is not capable of being based on and on private transactions in mortgage and secured observable market data and therefore the valuation model of loans portfolios.
these assets is highly subjective to management judgement and estimates including expected house price movements, We checked that the current assumptions are reflective credit risk of borrowers, discount rates, recoverability and of any historic trends of redemption of loans.
We also expected timing of receipt.
benchmarked the shared equity schemes against publicly available information on other shared equity schemes Fluctuations in the underlying assumptions used in to assess whether the assumptions are reasonable, in managements valuation model could have a material impact particular, focusing on house price inflation and the on the value of these assets.
Based upon the procedures performed, we noted no reasonable likely alternative assumptions that would result in a material change to the valuation.
88 88 || Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts || Our governance Our governance Our governance Our governance Accounting for complex land acquisitions Refer to page 74 of the Audit Committee Report and page 101 We tested key controls, including approval for land acquisitions of the financial statements.
and approval to enter into or extend a land purchase option, noting no exceptions The Group enters into certain land acquisitions with site specific terms attached such as overages, conditionality, options or We substantively tested material or complex land acquisitions specific agreements with the purchaser.
through examination of contracts and agreements to check that the acquisition and subsequent overage terms have been Acquisitions of land could be incorrectly accounted for due to identified and accounted for appropriately, and that all the the complex manner in which transactions can be structured.
related liabilities have been properly recorded within the financial statements.
How we tailored the audit scope In identifying these areas of focus and in ensuring that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, we took into account: the regional structure of the Group: the accounting processes and controls: and the industry in which the Group operates, and tailored the scope of our audit accordingly.
The Group consists of one main trading entity and is structured into six regions, being Central, Eastern, Western, Southern, South West and Northern.
We undertook work across each of the six regions which together account for 100% of the Group revenue and 99% of Group profit before tax.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and certain items, including defined benefit pension scheme balances, cash, accounts payable and share equity available for sale assets, were audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: How we determined it 5% of profit before tax Overall group materiality 8,000,000 Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax provides us with the most appropriate benchmark given the business listed status and stakeholder focus on profits.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 400,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 30, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups and companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 89 Auditors report Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 83, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to exceptions to report.
be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 73, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the exceptions to report.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 30 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 We have nothing of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, material to add or to including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing managed or mitigated.
material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 30 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of We have nothing the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have material to add or to done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether draw attention to.
they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or 90 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance Our governance adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 83, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently appli ed and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Christopher Burns Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London February 2016 Bovis Homes Group PLC | 91 The Homelands Cheltenham 92 | Annual report and accounts | Financial statements 2015 Financial statements
