Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Independent auditors report on the Annual Report and Accounts to the members of BP p. l. c. Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the groups loss for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice including FRS 101: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board As explained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the group in addition to applying IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise: Group Parent company Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2015.
Balance sheet as at 31 December 2015.
Group income statement for the year then ended.
Cash flow statement for the year then ended.
Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended.
Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended.
Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended.
Related Notes 1 to 15 to the financial statements.
Group cash flow statement for the year then ended.
Related Notes 1 to 37 to the financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom accounting standards United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice including FRS 101.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
These matters are unchanged from those we reported in our 2014 audit opinion.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee The determination of the liabilities, contingent liabilities For the Gulf of Mexico oil spill the primary audit engagement Based on our and disclosures arising from the significant uncertainties team performed the following audit procedures.
procedures we are related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill as described on page satisfied that the We walked through and tested the controls designed and 70 of the report of the audit committee and Notes 1 and 2 of the amounts provided by operated by the group relating to the liability accounts for the financial statements.
management are Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
On 2 July 2015, the group announced it had reached We met with the groups legal team to understand agreements in principle with the United States federal developments across all of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill matters We are satisfied that government and five Gulf states to settle all federal and state and their status.
We discussed legal developments with the management is claims arising from the incident.
groups external lawyers and read determinations and unable to determine judgments made by the courts.
a reliable estimate The proposed Consent Decree to resolve all United States and We reviewed the agreements in principle, verifying that for certain Gulf states natural resource damage claims and Clean Water Act specific matters were accurately reflected in the groups obligations as penalty claims is awaiting court approval.
The United States is accounting and disclosures.
disclosed in Note 2 expected to file a motion with the court to enter the Consent With regard to PSC settlements, we engaged EY actuarial of the financial Decree as a final settlement around the end of March, which the experts to consider the analysis of available claims data statements.
Although there is still risk, the undertaken by management.
We corroborated the data used agreements in principle have significantly reduced the uncertainty Given the in respect of all claim categories, with specific regard to associated with this element of the liability determination for 2015. agreements in business economic loss, this being the most complex to Following the agreements in principle, we concluded the principle signed on estimate.
Our testing included understanding and verifying remaining uncertainties were no longer fundamental to a users 2 July 2015 we trends in the actuarial models, considering the approach in understanding of the financial statements and therefore we have consider it respect of all claim categories which included comparing with removed the Emphasis of Matter from our 2015 audit opinion.
appropriate that the prior periods.
Emphasis of Matter There continues to be uncertainty regarding the outcome of We considered the accounting treatment of the liabilities, is no longer required Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC settlements, the most contingent liabilities and disclosures under IFRS criteria, to in our audit opinion.
substantial category being business economic loss claims.
The conclude whether these were appropriate in all the 8 June 2015 deadline for claims resulted in a significant number circumstances.
of claims received, which have not yet been processed and quantified.
Management concluded that a reliable estimation of the expected liability still cannot be made at 31 December 2015.
This page does not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
96 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Financial statements Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee The significant decrease in current and future oil and gas We extended the scope of our original planned procedures to BPs oil and gas prices during 2015 and the impact this has had on the address the changing risk.
This included further use of EY price assumptions carrying value of the groups Upstream assets as described valuation experts in critically assessing and corroborating the are comparable to on page 69 of the report of the audit committee and Note 1 of revised assumptions used in impairment testing, the most the range seen the financial statements.
significant of these being future market oil and gas prices and within the industry at discount rates.
We also focused on reserves and resources this time.
Declines in commodity prices have had a significant effect on volumes, as described elsewhere in our report.
the carrying value of the groups assets, as evidenced by the The reduction in the impairments recognized in the 2015 financial statements and in In addressing this risk, audit procedures were performed by the pre-tax discount rate the prior year.
component teams at each of the groups 14 Upstream locations from 12% to 11% scoped-in for the audit of asset impairment and by the primary and the post-tax The principal risk is in relation to managements assessment of audit engagement team for the remaining assets identified at discount rate from future cash flows, which are used to project the recoverability of risk of impairment.
8% to 7% are within tangible and intangible assets.
the range of our We walked through and tested the controls designed and expectation.
operated by the group relating to the assessment of the carrying value of tangible and intangible assets.
Based on our We examined the methodology used by management to procedures, we assess the carrying value of tangible and intangible assets believe the assigned to cash-generating units, to determine its impairment charge is compliance with accounting standards and consistency of appropriate.
Based on our We corroborated estimates of future cash flows and procedures on the challenged whether these were appropriate in light of future exploration portfolio price assumptions and the cost budgets.
We performed we consider the sensitivity analyses over inputs to the cash flow models.
write-offs were Together with EY valuation experts we assessed specific properly recorded inputs to the determination of the discount rate, including the and remaining risk-free rate and country risk rates, along with gearing and carrying values are cost of debt.
Such inputs were benchmarked against risk appropriate.
rates in international markets in which the group operates.
We performed procedures over the completeness of the impairment charge and exploration write-offs, also validating that base data used in the impairment models agreed to the underlying books and records.
The estimate of oil and gas reserves and resources has a Audit procedures were performed by the component teams at Based on our significant impact on the financial statements, particularly each of the groups 14 Upstream locations scoped-in for the procedures we impairment testing and depreciation, depletion and audit of reserves and resources and by the primary audit consider that the amortization DD&A charges as described on page 69 of engagement team.
reserves estimations the report of the audit committee and Note 1 of the financial are reasonable for We tested the groups controls over their internal certification statements.
useinthe process for technical and commercial experts who are impairment testing The estimation of oil and natural gas reserves and resources is a responsible for reserves and resources estimation.
and calculation of significant area of judgement due to the technical uncertainty in We assessed the competence and objectivity of these DD&A.
assessing quantities and complex contractual arrangements experts, to satisfy ourselves they were appropriately qualified dictating the groups share of reportable volumes.
to carry out the volumes estimation.
We confirmed that significant changes in reserves and Reserves and resources are also a fundamental indicator of the resources were made in the appropriate period, and in future potential of the groups performance.
compliance with the Discovered Resources Management Policy DRM-P. We gave specific consideration to BPs reported share of reserves in joint arrangements and associates, including Rosneft.
Where volumetric movements had a material impact on the financial statements, we validated these volumes against underlying information and documentation as required by the DRM-P, along with checking that assumptions used to estimate reserves and resources were made in compliance with relevant regulations.
We validated that the updated reserves and resources estimates were included appropriately in the groups consideration of impairment and in accounting for DD&A.
Unauthorized trading activity within the integrated Audit procedures on revenue and trading were performed by Based on our supply & trading function and the potential impact on component teams and the primary audit engagement team at 7 procedures we revenue as described on page 69 of the report of the audit locations across the US, UK and Singapore.
identified no matters committee and Note 1 of the financial statements.
to report to the Audit We walked through and tested the controls designed and Committee.
Unauthorized trading activity is a fraud risk associated with a operated by the group over unauthorized trading activity.
potential deliberate misstatement of the groups trading Using analytics software we identified trades with the highest positions or mis-marking of positions with an intention to: risk of unauthorized activity so as to focus our testing on these trades.
We obtained confirmations directly from third parties for a maximize trading profits.
understate profits or move profits to subsequent periods We verified the fair value of a sample of derivatives using when bonus ceilings have already been reached, to maximize contract and external market prices.
individual bonuses across financial years.
We tested the completeness of the amounts recorded in the financial statements through performing procedures to detect These acts would lead to an overstatement or understatement unrecorded liabilities as well as detailed cut-off procedures of the groups revenue and profits.
around sales, purchases, trade receivables and trade payables.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 97 Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee The current geopolitical environment in Russia and the For the Rosneft operating segment the primary audit Based on our existence of US and EU economic sanctions may impact engagement team performed the following audit procedures.
procedures we are BPs ability to exercise significant influence over Rosneft satisfied that the We assessed the impact of sanctions imposed by the US and and the consequent accounting for the groups interest in criteria in IFRS for EU to determine the effect on the groups ability to exercise Rosneft using the equity method as described on page 69 of equity accounting significant influence over Rosneft.
We did this through the report of the audit committee and Notes 1 and 16 of the are met in respect of discussion with the groups legal team and through observing financial statements.
Rosneft and that the the interaction between BP and Rosneft.
We verified the impact of sanctions Geopolitical developments such as further sanctions may second BP-appointed director to the board of Rosneft and extant at this time present changes which could diminish the ability of the group to considered whether BP demonstrated significant influence does not prevent the exert significant influence, through diminished participation in under IFRS criteria.
exercise of the financial and operating policy decisions of Rosneft.
We considered the adequacy of the financial and other significant influence information provided to BP to allow compliance with its by BP.
reporting obligations, observing that appropriate review was completed by BP on the information reported.
We provided instructions to Rosnefts independent auditors who reported in accordance with our timetable and instructions.
The scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organization of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each component.
In scoping the audit we reflect the groups structure Upstream, Downstream, Rosneft, Other businesses and corporate and Gulf of Mexico oil spill, plus the groups functions.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, we performed full or specific scope audit procedures over 47 components covering the UK, US, Angola, Azerbaijan, Germany, Russia, Singapore and the group functions, representing the principal business units within the group.
Of the 47 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 9 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 38 components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 43% of the groups loss before tax, 41% of the groups revenue and 11% of the groups property, plant and equipment.
The specific scope components contributed 29% of the groups revenue and 55% of the groups property, plant and equipment.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the group.
Of the 38 specific scope components, we instructed 7 of these locations to perform specified procedures over impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, recoverability of certain receivables and the carrying value of certain investments held by the group.
The remaining components not subject to full or specific group scoping are not significant individually or in the aggregate.
They include many small, low risk components and balances: each remaining component represents an average of 0.02% of the total group loss before tax and 0.04% of total group revenue.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including evaluating and testing managements group wide controls across a range of geographies and segments, specifically testing the oversight and review controls that management has in place to ensure there are no material misstatements in these locations.
We performed analytical and enquiry procedures to address the risk of residual misstatement on a segment-wide and component basis.
We tested consolidation journals to identify the existence of any further risks of misstatement that could have been material to the group financial statements.
Changes from the prior year In the current year we designed full and specific procedures for in-scope components, which represents a change from the prior year when specific scope components only, were included.
This change did not result in a significant change in the level of procedures undertaken at locations.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 9 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 5 of these directly by the primary audit engagement team.
For the 38 specific scope components, audit procedures were performed on 18 directly by the primary audit engagement team.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group as a whole.
98 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Financial statements The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits significant locations to ensure the audit is executed and delivered in accordance with the planned approach and to confirm the quality of the audit work undertaken.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the primary audit engagement team to the component teams in the US, Angola, Azerbaijan, Germany and Russia.
Part of the purpose of these visits is to confirm that appropriate procedures have been performed by the auditors of the components and that the significant audit areas were covered as communicated in the detailed audit instructions, including the risks of material misstatement as outlined above.
The primary audit engagement team review included examining key working papers and conclusions where these related to areas of management and auditor judgement with specific focus on the risks detailed above.
The primary audit engagement team also participated in the component teams planning, during visits made earlier in the audit period.
Telephone and video meetings were held with the auditors at locations which the primary audit engagement team did not visit in person.
This, together with additional procedures performed at group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the group financial statements.
One of the significant locations is Russia, which includes Rosneft, a material associate not controlled by BP.
We were provided with appropriate access to Rosnefts auditor in order to ensure they had completed the procedures required by ISA 600 on the financial statements of Rosneft, used as the basis for BPs equity accounting.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the group to be $0.5 billion 2014 $1 billion, which is 5.7% 2014 5% of underlying replacement cost profit as defined on page 258 before interest and taxation.
We believe that underlying replacement cost profit before interest and taxation is the most appropriate measure upon which to calculate materiality, due to the fact it excludes the impact of both changes in crude oil and product prices and items disclosed as non-operating items that can significantly distort the groups results.
During the course of our audit, we re-assessed initial materiality in the context of the groups performance and this resulted in no change from our original assessment of materiality.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2014 75% of our materiality, namely $375 million 2014 $750 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was $75 million to $300 million 2014 $150 million to $640 million.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of $25 million 2014 $50 million, which is set at 5% of materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, weread all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements andto identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 93, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 99 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial We have no information in the annual report is: exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys position and performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: We have no exceptions to report.
the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 94, and longer-term viability, set out on page 94: and the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add We have nothing or to draw attention to in relation to: material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the Directors report Directors statements, page 94 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
John C. Flaherty Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 4 March 2016 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the BP p. l. c. web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
This page does not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC 100 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
