BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of BTG plc for the year ended 31 March 2015 set out on pages 83 to 128.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Group financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our Group audit were as follows: Recoverability of goodwill 183.8m and other intangible assets 597.9m Refer to page 52 Audit Committee statement, page 90 accounting policy and page 104 financial disclosures.
The risk: Our response: The assessment of the recoverability of goodwill and In this area our audit procedures included the following: other intangible assets requires significant judgment in We considered the Groups impairment analysis, understood determining the forecast future performance of the cash and challenged the key judgments and sensitivities and generating units to which goodwill is allocated.
assessed the impact that each of these have in determining whether an impairment exists.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting In particular, we challenged managements assessment of and discounting future cash flows, which are the basis the revenue projections: by reference to those achieved of the assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key historically and external market data where available in terms judgmental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
of market size and expectations of market share: and assessed the discount rate.
We compared the sum of the discounted future cash flows to the Groups market capitalisation to assess the reasonableness of those cash flows.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Recognition of deferred tax assets Refer to page 52 Audit Committee statement, page 96 accounting policy and page 100 financial disclosures.
The risk: Our response: 80 The Group has significant tax losses which have been Our audit procedures included using our own tax specialists to Financials acquired as part of the business combinations or from past assist us in the following: business performance.
There is inherent uncertainty involved We considered the appropriateness of managements assessing both the availability of losses and in forecasting assumptions and estimates in determining the level of losses future taxable profits, which determines the extent to which to recognise.
We have assessed managements view of the deferred tax assets are or are not recognised.
This is one of likelihood of generating sufficient future taxable profits to the key judgmental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
support the recognition of deferred tax assets, in particular with regard to recent product launches, performance trends and acquisitions.
We assessed managements analysis of the historic losses acquired on the EKOS acquisition and which of those were impacted by a change of control clause.
We assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the recognition of deferred tax assets to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions reflected the associated inherent risks.
We also considered any offset of liabilities and assets to assess if this is appropriate.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 6.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group revenue of which it represents 1.6%.
We consider Group revenue to be the most appropriate benchmark as revenue remains a key performance indicator of the Group monitored by stakeholders.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 0.3m, in addition to other identified misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 25 reporting components, we subjected 14 to audits for group reporting purposes and 2 to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter 2 were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual audit risks that needed to be addressed.
In aggregate our audit procedures covered 99% of total Group revenue: 96% of Group profit before taxation: and 99% of total Group assets.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
Component materialities were all set, or approved, by the Group audit team, and ranged from 0.1m to 5.9m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on three of the 16 components, in the USA and Australia, was performed by component auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited 13 component locations in the USA and UK.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with all component auditors including the three that were not physically visited by the Group audit team.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or 81 the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in Financials agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors Statement, set out on page 77, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 40 to 49 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc only continued Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 78, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Richard Broadbelt Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 18 May 2015 82 Financials
