Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent auditors report To the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the Group financial statements is unmodified We have audited the Group financial statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the accounts.
These are crossreferenced from the Group financial statements and identified as audited.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Group financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Provisions and contingent liabilities in respect of litigations Refer to page 59 Audit Committee Report, page 135 accounting policy note and pages 178, 192201 financial disclosures The risk: The Group is subject to claims and class actions, which could have a significant impact on the Groups results if the potential exposures were to materialise.
Management applies significant judgement when considering whether, and how much, to provide for the potential exposure of each litigation.
We focused on this area given the number and magnitude of potential exposures across the Group, and the complexity and judgement necessary to determine whether to provide for or disclose certain exposures.
Our response: Our procedures included an assessment of the processes and controls over litigations operated by Management at a Group, regional and local level.
We met quarterly with the Groups in-house legal counsel including after the year end to discuss the nature of ongoing claims, and to validate the latest status and accounting and disclosure implications.
Our in-scope component audit teams reported to us on the status of open claims, and helped us to validate completeness of the matters discussed by us at a Group level.
We also obtained formal confirmations from the Groups external counsel for significant litigation matters to ensure completeness of provisioning and disclosure.
We assessed relevant historical and recent judgments passed by the court authorities alongside legal opinion from external lawyers to challenge the basis used for the provisions recorded or disclosures made by Management.
Where provisions were not required, we also considered the adequacy and completeness of the Groups disclosures in note 30 made in relation to contingent liabilities.
IT system change TaO Refer to page 59 Audit Committee Report The risk: The Group has continued to implement its revised Operating Model and single IT operating system in a number of end markets over the course of the year.
An IT migration project of this type presents inherent risks including the loss of integrity of key financial data being migrated, and the breakdown in operation or monitoring of IT dependent controls within critical business processes purchase to pay, order to cash, and record to report, which could lead to financial errors or misstatements and inaccurate financial reporting.
Our response: Our procedures included use of our IT specialists to assess and test the General IT control environment of the single IT operating system, including IT access and segregation of duties, as well as IT dependent controls within critical business processes.
In relation to the system migration itself, our IT specialists assessed and tested the controls specifically established over the implementation process and migration of key financial data from the legacy to the new single operating system, and reviewed the work of Internal Audit and other external specialists to corroborate our findings.
Additionally, where system migration occurred during 2015, our end market component audit teams performed independent validation of the data migration and reconciliation between legacy systems and the single IT operating system.
Global taxation exposures Refer to page 59 Audit Committee Report, page 133 accounting policy note and pages 145146, 160161, 201202 financial disclosures The risk: The Group operates in multiple jurisdictions governed by national tax laws and regulations and is required to estimate the tax effect of cross-border transactions including transfer pricing arrangements.
Where the precise impact of these laws and regulations on indirect taxes and the tax payable on profits is unclear, the Group seeks to make reasonable estimates to determine the tax charge arising.
The calculation of the amount of tax receivable or payable, in addition to any specific taxation provisions that are required, is often complex, and requires a significant level of expertise and judgement.
Our response: Our audit procedures included the use of our own international and local tax specialists to assess the Groups tax positions, its correspondence with the relevant tax authorities, and to analyse and challenge the assumptions used to determine tax provisions based on our knowledge and experience of the application of the international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 121 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent auditors report continued Goodwill and intangible asset impairment Refer to page 133 accounting policy note and pages 149150 financial disclosures The risk: As at 31 December 2015, the Group had 9,324 million of goodwill and 583 million of trademarks and similar intangibles, principally relating to the acquisitions of, among others, Rothmans, Imperial Tobacco Canada, ETI Italy, ST Scandinavia and Bentoel Indonesia.
There is significant judgement involved in forecasting and discounting of future cash flows, which is the basis of the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill balances.
Our response: In this area our audit procedures included testing of the Groups budgeting procedures upon which the forecasts are based and the integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow model.
We used our own valuation specialists to assist us in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used by the Group, in particular those relating to the Group and cash-generating unit level discount rates.
Where required, we compared the Groups assumptions to externally derived data as well as our own assessments in relation to key inputs such as projected growth, volumes, market share and competition, cost inflation and discount rates, as well as performing break-even analysis on the assumptions.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 245 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation adjusted to exclude: a current year one-off gain in relation to the investment to maintain a 42% shareholding in Reynolds American Inc. RAI of 601 million as disclosed in note 4: and a current year one-off gain in relation to the Groups share of divestiture of assets recorded in RAI following the Lorillard acquisition of 371 million as disclosed in note 5.
This represents 5.0% of the Groups reported profit before taxation as adjusted.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 12 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Scope of our audit In establishing the overall approach to our audit, we considered the centralised nature of the Groups operations, the risk profile of countries where the Group operates, and changes taking place within the business.
We also considered the financial significance of each business unit together with any local statutory audit requirements.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of over 300 end market and corporate reporting components, primarily structured across four geographic regions, being Asia-Pacific: Americas: Western Europe: and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa.
The Group has four centralised shared service centres that perform accounting and reporting activities, and together these shared service centres process a substantial portion of the Groups transactions.
The outputs from the centralised shared service centres are included in the financial information of the end market entities they serve.
Each of the shared service centres was subject to specified audit procedures, primarily to test the effectiveness of the financial controls that they operate.
For Group reporting purposes, we determined that 42 end market components required audits performed under our instruction.
Audits of these components were performed using materiality levels assigned by the Group audit team, which were lower than the materiality level for the Group as a whole, ranging from 2 million to 70 million, and determined by reference to the size and risk profile of the components.
Specified riskfocused audit procedures were performed by Group and component auditors on certain balances and transactions in respect of a further three end market components, one of which is an associate.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the Group engagement team centrally in London.
These included general IT controls, taxation, pensions, litigation, treasury, goodwill and intangible asset impairment, and earnings per share.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all auditors of in-scope components.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that we required to be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited component locations subject to audit in Brazil, Canada, Russia, South Africa, Turkey, UAE, Australia, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Denmark, Germany, Italy and Romania, as well as shared service centres in Romania, Malaysia and Costa Rica.
The Group team also held regional meetings with component teams subject to both audit and specified risk-focused audit procedures as part of the audit planning phase to explain our audit instructions and discuss the component auditors audit plans.
In addition to these visits, telephone and or online meetings were held with component auditors.
The findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail with component auditors as necessary, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
122 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Taken together, the end market components and Group functions in the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results: Group Profit before taxation Group Revenue Group Total assets Audit for Group reporting purposes 42 components 69 Audit for Group reporting purposes 42 components 75 Audit for Group reporting purposes 42 components 48 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 3 components Out of scope 25 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 3 components and centrally audited items 16 and centrally audited items 37 Out of scope 15 Out of scope 15 For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors statement of viability on page 38, concerning the principal risks, their management and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 2018: or the disclosures in page 35 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the Annual Report on page 58 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on pages 35 and 38, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 46 relating to the companys compliance with the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 123 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent auditors report continued 7 Other matter we have reported separately on the parent company financial statements We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2015 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 120, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Mark Baillache Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 24 February 2016 124 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015
