Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Independent auditors report To the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the parent company financial statements is unmodified We have audited the parent company financial statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise the parent company Balance Sheet, the parent company Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes.
In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2015: have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the accounts.
These are cross-referenced from the Group financial statements and identified as audited.
2 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
3 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception The Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
4 Other matter we have reported separately on the Group financial statements We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 120, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Mark Baillache Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 24 February 2016 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 213
