financial statements independent auditors report to the members of Britvic plc What we have audited Opinion on financial statements We have audited the financial statements of Britvic plc for the 52-week period ended 27 September 2015 which comprise the In our opinion: consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of comprehensive income expense, the consolidated balance sheet, the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 27 the consolidated statement of cash flows, the consolidated September 2015 and of the groups profit for the 52-week period statement of changes in equity, the company balance sheet and the then ended: related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is The group financial statements have been properly prepared in applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards financial reporting framework that has been applied in the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable The parent company financial statements have been properly law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Accounting Practice: and This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 73, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
76 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements independent auditors report to the members of Britvic plc continued Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identify below the risks of material misstatement which had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risks Our response to those risks Revenue recognition including the We tested controls over revenue recognition, including those relating to the timing of revenue treatment of discounts given to recognition: customers in the form of long-term We tested a sample of long-term discounts and promotional discounts by agreeing balances discounts or promotional discounts through to supporting documentation and ensured that the revenue recognition policies adopted and the timing of revenue recognition complied with IFRS: AC, AP We performed journal entry testing and analytical procedures including correlation of revenue to discounts to assess completeness of discounts: We performed revenue transaction testing, which included ensuring that, where necessary, the transaction had been appropriately recorded in the income statement: We performed cut-off testing on customer delivery notes around the period end: We looked for and tested journal entries relating to revenue for transactions close to the period end to ensure they were valid entries.
We also analysed and selected journals for testing which appeared unusual in nature either due to size, preparer or being manually posted.
We verified the journals to originating documentation to confirm that the entry was valid: and We ensured that the financial statement disclosures were in accordance with accounting standards.
Within International Standard on Auditing UK&I 240 there is a presumption that there are risks of fraud in revenue recognition.
We therefore evaluated the revenue transactions or assertions which give rise to such risk in the current year as noted above.
The risk of management override of We performed tailored procedures, including analytical procedures and journal entry testing, internal control sufficient to address the identified risk in respect of subjective areas which were considered to be most susceptible to management override which we considered to be revenue discounts, customer claim accruals, bonus accruals and the classification of exceptional and other items.
These risks are discussed in other areas of the annual report as noted by the following key.
AC See Audit Committee Report on pages 43 to 45 AP See note 3 accounting policies on page 84 In 2014 we also focused on: Our application of materiality The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite We determined materiality for the group to be 7.5 million 2014: lived assets.
Although this has remained an area of audit focus in 6.3 million, which is approximately 5% 2014: 5% of adjusted the current year, this has had a lesser effect on our overall audit pre-tax profit because, in our view, this is the most relevant measure strategy due to the continued growth in profitability of the group of the underlying financial performance of the group.
For 2015, we and a well-established methodology which supports the annual used pre-tax profits adjusted for the transaction costs in relation to impairment review: the purchase of Britvic Brazil as disclosed in note 5 of the annual report.
For 2014 we used adjusted pre-tax profits to exclude those The valuation of the groups derivatives and assessment of items classified as exceptional and other items as disclosed in hedging activities.
Whilst this remained an area of audit focus in Note 5.
This materiality provided the basis for determining the the current year, the effective adoption of IFRS 7 in the prior year nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures, and identifying coupled with the implementation of a new derivatives valuation and assessing the risk of material misstatement.
model meant this had a lesser effect on our overall audit strategy: and On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment The assessment of the assumptions used to assess the of the groups overall control environment, our judgement was that obligations for the defined benefit pension schemes.
This has also overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in remained an area of audit focus, but due to the well-established an individual account or balance for the group should be 75% methodologies and processes used to derive the pension liabilities 2014: 75% of planning materiality, namely 5.6 million 2014: 4.7 assumptions this had a lesser effect on our overall audit strategy.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that the total corrected and uncorrected audit differences did not exceed our materiality of 7.5 million for the financial statements as a whole.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 77 financial statements independent auditors report to the members of Britvic plc continued Our application of materiality continued Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage of our total performance materiality.
The performance In our opinion: materiality set for each component is based on the relative size of The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has the component and our view of the risk of misstatement at that been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act component.
In the current year the range of performance materiality 2006: allocated to components was 0.6 million to 4.8 million 2014: 0.5 The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors million to 4.5 million.
Report for the financial period for which the financial statements We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.38 million 2014: The information given in the Corporate Governance Report set out 0.32 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our on pages 33 to 73 with respect to internal control and risk view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light statements.
of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Matters on which we are required to report An overview of the scope of our audit by exception In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the group financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following: statements, our group audit scope in addition to auditing the group Under the ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, in level functions focused on four businesses, of which GB and France our opinion, information in the annual report is: were subject to a full scope audit for the 52-week period ended 27 Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial September 2015.
Certain operations of the remaining two businesses statements: or - Ireland Britvic Ireland Limited and International Britvic Americas Limited and Britvic EMEA Limited - were subject to a specific scope Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent audit, where the extent of the audit work was based on our assessment with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of of the risk of material misstatement in specific account balances and performing our audit: or the materiality of those operations to the groups business.
Together with the group functions, which were also subject to a full In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified scope audit, these operations represent the principal business units any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the of the group and account for 95% 2014: 98% of the groups total audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual assets, 96% 2014: 100% of the groups revenue and 94% 2014: report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual 100% of the groups adjusted profit before tax.
For 2015, the full report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated scope components contributed 97% of the groups adjusted profit to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
The three specific scope components contributed 8% of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to the groups revenue and 1% of the groups adjusted profit before you if, in our opinion: tax.
The audit scope of these components did not include testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent the coverage of significant accounts tested for the group.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or For the remaining locations, we performed other procedures, The parent company financial statements and the part of the including analytical reviews, testing of consolidation journals and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation agreement with the accounting records and returns: or recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the group financial statements.
Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of We have not received all the information and explanations we the group as a whole which assisted us in identifying and assessing require for our audit: or risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
A Corporate Governance Report has not been prepared by the company.
The Senior Statutory Auditor leads the audit of GB, the audit of both specific scope locations, and the group functions.
The Senior Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Statutory Auditor visited France, the other full scope location, The directors statement, set out on page 72, in relation to going participated in the component teams planning including the concern: and discussion of fraud and error and attended the closing meeting.
The part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the companys compliance with those provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Simon ONeill Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 24 November 2015 78 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015
