Financial statements | Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Bunzl plcs Group and Company financial statements the 'financial statements' give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 'IFRSs' as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 'IASB'.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Bunzl plc Annual Report the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2015: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: and the Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the Notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 15m which represents approximately 5% of profit before taxation Audit scope We performed audits of the financial information of 76 components spread across 23 different countries across North America, Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World Specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, pensions, acquisitions and the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, were performed by the Group audit team centrally Areas of focus Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets Corporate tax exposures Suppliers rebate accounting purchase volume based rebates Defined benefit pension schemes Business combinations 134 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements | Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland 'ISAs UK & Ireland '.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as 'areas of focus' in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report, page 93 Accounting policies and pages 103 and 104 Note 9.
The Group has material goodwill balances of 999.3m 2014: In our testing of managements annual goodwill and other intangible 922.3m and customer relationship intangible assets of 632.7m assets impairment calculations, we used valuation experts to assist 2014: 556.5m spread across multiple geographies and relating our evaluation of the appropriateness of the models and the key to multiple cash generating units 'CGUs'.
In assessing whether the carrying amount of these assets has We evaluated the reasonableness of the directors cash flow been impaired, management considers forecast cash flows of the forecasts by comparing the assumptions made to internal and individual CGUs which are identified on a market or geographical external data.
In particular: We focused on the CGUs with the highest goodwill and intangible we compared short term revenue growth rates to the latest balances the most material being North America, France Hygiene, strategic plans and found them to be consistent: the Netherlands and UK Hospitality as well as the CGUs where there were smaller goodwill and intangibles balances but lower we determined that long term growth rates are generally levels of headroom.
consistent when compared to third party nominal GDP rates: Managements impairment assessment involves significant we found the achievability of future margins to be plausible based estimation, principally relating to short and long term revenue on past and current performance and consistent with budgets: and growth, future profitability and discount rates.
Due to the acquisitive nature of the Group and the magnitude of the we challenged the discount rate used to determine the present aggregated related goodwill and intangible assets, together value by assessing the cost of capital for the Company and with the subjectivity of the principal assumptions, a significant comparable organisations and considered them to be reasonable.
amount of audit effort was required, particularly as some of these assumptions are dependent on economic factors and Furthermore, we obtained evidence to assess adequate historical trading conditions specific to overseas territories.
accuracy in managements forecasting process.
As described in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, management concluded that, based on their own sensitivity calculations, no reasonable change in assumptions would lead to an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.
Having ascertained the extent of changes in key assumptions either individually or collectively that would be required for goodwill and other intangible assets to be materially impaired, we considered such a change in those key assumptions to be unlikely.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 135 Financial statements | Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Corporate tax exposures Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report, page 92 Accounting policies and pages 100 and 101 Note 6.
The Group operates in a number of international territories with We discussed with management their assessment of uncertain complex taxation rules and regulations.
The interpretation of tax positions and used our taxation specialists to assist us in these complex regulations and the unknown future outcome of challenging the appropriateness of managements judgements pending judgements by the tax authorities result in the need to in relation to these positions.
These procedures assisted in our provide against a number of uncertain tax positions.
corroboration of managements position on the amount of significant tax exposures and the provisions and disclosures made in the We focused on this area because of the risk surrounding the level financial statements.
of estimation and judgement that is necessary in determining the provisions required.
In assessing the adequacy of the tax provisions, we also considered factors such as possible penalties and interest.
Furthermore, we determined that the calculations were in line with the accounting standards and that the methodology and principles had been applied consistently.
We consider the current level of tax provision to be reasonable.
Supplier rebate accounting purchase volume based rebates Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report and page 92 Accounting policies.
We focused on this area as purchase volume based rebate income We evaluated the processes in place across the Group for the from suppliers is material to the Consolidated financial statements.
recognition of purchase volume based supplier rebates and found these to be consistently applied.
We agreed the nature of rebate Given the degree of estimation involved in accounting for purchase arrangements to contracts or other supporting agreements and volume based supplier rebates, we focused our audit procedures agreed the rates indicated in the agreements with those used in on the accuracy, occurrence and cut-off of these transactions and the calculations.
We also reperformed rebate calculations and the valuation of amounts held on the balance sheet.
assessed managements estimates of purchases.
No material exceptions were noted from this testing.
Where appropriate, we also agreed the post year end settlement of year end receivable amounts included in the opening and closing Consolidated balance sheets to bank receipts, with no material exceptions noted.
Defined benefit pension schemes Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report, page 95 Accounting policies and pages 114 to 118 Note 20.
The Group has defined benefits pension schemes with material We used our own actuarial experts to satisfy ourselves that the schemes in the US and the UK with a net deficit of 40.0m at the assumptions used in calculating the US and UK pension scheme current year end 2014: 70.3m, which is material in the context liabilities are appropriate, including confirming that salary increases of the Consolidated balance sheet.
and mortality rate assumptions were consistent with relevant national and industry benchmarks.
We determined that the discount Management estimation is required in relation to the measurement and inflation rates used in the valuation of the pension scheme of pension scheme obligations, and management employs liabilities were consistent with our internally developed benchmarks independent actuarial experts to assist it in determining and, where available, with those disclosed in the published financial appropriate assumptions such as inflation levels, discount rates, statements of other companies as at 31 December 2015.
In each salary increases and mortality rates.
case we considered the assumptions made by management to be Movements in these assumptions can have a material impact on the reasonable in light of the available evidence.
determination of the liability and, therefore, the extent of any surplus or deficit.
Business combinations Refer to page 57 Audit Committee report, page 91 Accounting policies and pages 119 to 122 Note 24.
Given that the Group continues to make significant investment in Management relies on external valuation specialists to value acquisitions, accounting for business combinations is an area of significant intangibles acquired in business combinations.
Where focus due to the level of judgement involved.
management has relied on such specialists, we assessed their competency and tested the results of their work and found no Business combinations can involve judgements in relation to the material issues.
value of assets and liabilities that are recognised on acquisition, particularly the allocation of purchase consideration to goodwill We used our own valuation experts to challenge the methodology and separately identified intangible assets.
Any misstatement and key assumptions used in determining the value of the customer made in the identification and or valuation of acquired intangibles relationship assets for the more significant acquisitions.
We gives rise to an equal, compensating misstatement in goodwill.
determined that the cash flows applied within the valuation models and the key assumptions such as the discount rates, growth rates, customer attrition and period for amortisation, were appropriate.
136 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements | Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is organised geographically into four business areas, being North America, Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World.
We identified one financially significant component, being North America, where a full scope audit has been performed.
In addition to this, we identified eight components across Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World for which a full scope audit of their financial information was required.
In order to satisfy the request of the Audit Committee and management, we performed full scope audits on a further 67 components.
The components where we performed audit procedures covered over 95% of Group revenue, profit before taxation and total assets.
Component audits were performed to respective statutory materiality levels of the individual components.
These local statutory materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged up to 14.7m.
Where work was performed by component auditors, detailed instructions were issued by us and the Group audit team visited North America, UK, France and Brazil.
Telephone discussions were also held with component auditors at these locations and with the majority of the components that the Group audit team did not visit in person.
In addition, specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, pensions, acquisitions and the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, were performed by the Group audit team centrally.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 15 million 2014: 15m Overall Group materiality How we determined it Approximately 5% of profit before taxation Rationale for benchmark applied Given that the Groups businesses are profit orientated and the directors use profit measures to assess the performance of the business, we believe that profit before taxation provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 750,000 2014: 750,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 91 in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 137 Financial statements | Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc continued Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 53, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Group and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 57, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 36 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision We have nothing material to add or to draw C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks attention to.
facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are We have nothing material to add or to draw being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on pages 54 and 55 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to add or to draw provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, attention to.
over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
138 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements | Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance report relating to 10 further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 133, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 29 February 2016 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 139
