Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the Strategic Report: the Directors Report: Report on the Group financial statements the Directors Remuneration Report: and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Our opinion In our opinion, Burberry Group plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted then ended: by the European Union, and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group European Union: and and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements the directors have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: What we have audited Burberry Group plcs financial statements comprise: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2015: state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial statements the Group Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: respectively: and the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company the Analysis of Net Cash as at 31 March 2015: and will continue in business.
the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys information.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and presented elsewhere in the Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2014 15 the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to other irregularities.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Our audit approach governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 20 million which represents approximately 5% of profit before tax 2014: 20 million.
Audit The directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the We identified six reporting units which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or Scope their risk characteristics, providing 78% 2014: 79% coverage over Group revenue and 92% 2014: 91% coverage over profit before information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level relating primarily to taxation, litigation, impairment and earnings per share, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 62 to 63 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Areas of Inventory provisioning.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Focus Completeness and valuation of provisions for tax exposures.
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and China put option liability valuation.
Impairment of fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset.
the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Impairment of property, plant and equipment.
Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Presentation of results and non-GAAP measures.
These statements were approved by the Board on 19 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, Sir John Peace Carol Fairweather we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of Chairman Chief Financial Officer bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
111 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Inventory provisioning The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to For both finished goods and raw materials, we critically reviewed the changing consumer demands and fashion trends, increasing the level basis for the inventory provisions, the consistency of provisioning of judgement involved in estimating inventory provisions refer to note in line with policy and the rationale for the recording of specific 16 to the financial statements.
Judgement is required to assess the provisions.
In particular, for Beauty inventory, we assessed appropriate level of provisioning for items which may be ultimately managements provision methodology, which has been updated destroyed or sold below cost as a result of a reduction in consumer to reflect more historical information that is now available and the demand.
Such judgements include managements expectations for refined sales forecasting process.
future sales and inventory liquidation plans, especially in relation to In doing so we understood the ageing profile of inventory, the relatively new business operations such as Beauty.
process for identifying specific problem inventory and historical loss rates.
As a result, we satisfied ourselves that both finished goods and raw materials inventory provisions have been prepared in line with policy and are supportable on the basis of historical trends as well as managements expectations for future sales and inventory management plans.
Completeness and valuation of provisions for tax exposures The directors are required to apply significant judgement when Through discussions with management, we understood the determining whether, and how much, to provide in respect of tax Groups process for identifying uncertain tax positions and the assessments leading to uncertain tax positions in a number of related accounting policy of provisioning for tax exposures.
jurisdictions refer to notes 9 and 14 to the financial statements.
Based on this, we understood the extent to which provision Given the inherent uncertainty over the outcome of pending tax adjustments are supported by underlying changes in circumstances assessments, significant judgement is applied by the directors and confirmed that they are being made on a consistent basis to in estimating the final outcome of such tax assessments.
We focused on this area due to the inherent complexity and We assessed the appropriateness of provisions recorded in the judgement in estimating the amount of provision required, financial statements, or the rationale for not recording a provision, which is increased due to the numerous jurisdictions in which by using our specialist tax knowledge, reading the latest the Group operates.
correspondence between the Group and the various tax authorities As noted in note 30 to the financial statements, the Group is subject and advisors, and by obtaining written responses from the Group's to tax audits and claims in a number of jurisdictions, including a external advisors on the material tax exposures.
dispute with the Spanish tax authorities.
These procedures assisted in our corroboration of managements position in respect of significant tax exposures, and with our assessment that the disclosures and provisions recorded in the financial statements, including whether any provisions sufficiently addressed probable penalties and interest, were appropriate and reflected the latest developments.
China put option liability valuation Following the acquisition of the Burberry retail and distribution Given the inherent judgement in forecasting in a high-growth business in China, Sparkle Roll Holdings Limited, a non-Group market such as China, the most judgemental input is the forecast company, retains a 15% economic interest in the Groups business performance of the Groups business in China.
We agreed this to in China.
A put option exists over this interest, which is exercisable latest available information including managements forecasts of the after 1 September 2020.
At 31 March 2015 the option is recorded future performance of the Groups business in China, actual historic at 54.4m 2014: 51.3m.
results of the China business and GDP growth forecasts for the Chinese economy as published by third-party sources.
The valuation of the put option over the non-controlling interest in the Groups business in China is based on a number of assumptions, The average historical Burberry Group plc multiple is in line with the key ones being the future performance of the Groups business in our recalculation of the multiple based on the Groups actual China: the average historical Burberry Group plc multiple: and the risk multiple and is consistent with the average multiple for adjusted discount rate for China, taking into account the risk free rate Burberrys peer group.
in China refer to note 19 to the financial statements.
We focused on Similarly, we critically assessed the risk adjusted discount rate for this area because of the inherent judgement involved in determining China to confirm this was in line with the China business cost of these assumptions and the magnitude of the put option liability.
capital and with the discount rate of comparable luxury retailers.
Changes in the fair value of the liability will be made through We tested the calculation of the liability to determine whether it was the Income Statement and could result in fluctuations in profit.
consistent with prior periods and with the terms of the put option, with no material exceptions or inconsistencies noted.
We confirmed the appropriateness of disclosures relating to the valuation, including the related sensitivities.
We confirmed that the net present value of the put option has been recognised as a noncurrent financial liability under IAS 39 and that related disclosures are in line with the disclosure requirements contained within IFRS 7.
112 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Inventory provisioning Impairment of fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to For both finished goods and raw materials, we critically reviewed the In FY13, the Group reacquired the licence to sell Beauty products, We challenged managements assessment of Beauty performance changing consumer demands and fashion trends, increasing the level basis for the inventory provisions, the consistency of provisioning resulting in the recognition of a fragrance and beauty licence by comparing actual results to forecasts, including assessing sales of judgement involved in estimating inventory provisions refer to note in line with policy and the rationale for the recording of specific intangible of 70.9m, which is being amortised on a straight-line patterns and levels of credit notes and returns.
Having compared 16 to the financial statements.
In particular, for Beauty inventory, we assessed basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017. the Groups future plans and forecasts for Beauty products to actual appropriate level of provisioning for items which may be ultimately managements provision methodology, which has been updated results and market conditions, we are satisfied that future performance An underperformance of the Beauty business would expose the destroyed or sold below cost as a result of a reduction in consumer to reflect more historical information that is now available and the is expected to support the current carrying value of the licence.
Group to the risk of impairment of the Beauty licence, the value demand.
Having discussed Beauty performance with management we are future sales and inventory liquidation plans, especially in relation to In doing so we understood the ageing profile of inventory, the satisfied that management has carried out a suitable assessment We have focused on this area due to the size of the Beauty licence relatively new business operations such as Beauty.
process for identifying specific problem inventory and historical of whether any impairment indicators exist for the Beauty intangible and the inherent judgement involved in forming a valuation loss rates.
of the intangible, particularly regarding future sales and profit As a result, we satisfied ourselves that both finished goods and forecasts in this fast-growing part of the business.
We also considered the related disclosures and are satisfied that the raw materials inventory provisions have been prepared in line financial statements adequately disclose the potential risk of future with policy and are supportable on the basis of historical trends impairment if the performance of the Beauty business does not meet as well as managements expectations for future sales and inventory managements expectations.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment Completeness and valuation of provisions for tax exposures The Group has a material operational asset base which may be We tested managements assessment of impairment triggers and are The directors are required to apply significant judgement when Through discussions with management, we understood the vulnerable to impairment in the event of trading performance being satisfied that they appropriately took into account both internal and determining whether, and how much, to provide in respect of tax Groups process for identifying uncertain tax positions and the below expectations.
external impairment indicators, including the trading performance of assessments leading to uncertain tax positions in a number of related accounting policy of provisioning for tax exposures.
The value-in-use models used to assess the risk of impairment jurisdictions refer to notes 9 and 14 to the financial statements.
Based on this, we understood the extent to which provision are based on assumptions including revenue forecasts, gross and We tested the value-in-use models for assets where an impairment Given the inherent uncertainty over the outcome of pending tax adjustments are supported by underlying changes in circumstances operating margins and discount rates, all of which are countryas well trigger has been identified, including challenging management assessments, significant judgement is applied by the directors and confirmed that they are being made on a consistent basis to as store-specific refer to note 13 to the financial statements.
Such forecasts and other assumptions including discount rates and longin estimating the final outcome of such tax assessments.
stores may be located in both emerging markets such as Brazil, which term growth rates, and found that these assumptions were reasonable.
We focused on this area due to the inherent complexity and are typically more volatile than developed markets, as well as more In particular we focussed on the forecasts for sales growth and are We assessed the appropriateness of provisions recorded in the judgement in estimating the amount of provision required, established economies such as the USA and Italy, where the Group satisfied that they reflect reasonable expectations for each store, financial statements, or the rationale for not recording a provision, which is increased due to the numerous jurisdictions in which is working towards consolidating its position within the market.
taking into account the maturity of each store and the market in by using our specialist tax knowledge, reading the latest the Group operates.
Managements assessment resulted in the recognition of a net which it is located.
correspondence between the Group and the various tax authorities impairment charge for FY15 of 4.1m FY14: 12.3m.
As noted in note 30 to the financial statements, the Group is subject and advisors, and by obtaining written responses from the Group's We also performed sensitivity analysis on key assumptions, particularly to tax audits and claims in a number of jurisdictions, including a external advisors on the material tax exposures.
We focused on this area because of the inherent judgement revenue growth, and agreed with managements conclusion that dispute with the Spanish tax authorities.
involved in determining key assumptions such as future sales growth, reasonably possible changes to the assumptions would not result These procedures assisted in our corroboration of managements profit margins and discount rates, and the magnitude of the assets in a material difference to the charges already recognised.
position in respect of significant tax exposures, and with our under consideration.
assessment that the disclosures and provisions recorded in the financial statements, including whether any provisions sufficiently Presentation of results and non-GAAP measures addressed probable penalties and interest, were appropriate and The presentation of results continues to be a focus area for We considered managements assessment of adjusting items and the reflected the latest developments.
regulators, particularly the use of adjusted and underlying measures related presentation and accompanying disclosures and are satisfied China put option liability valuation to explain business performance, and the classification of items as that the selection of adjusting items is consistent with prior years and adjusting, especially where they recur each year.
There is a risk that adequately explained in the financial statements.
Following the acquisition of the Burberry retail and distribution Given the inherent judgement in forecasting in a high-growth the use of such measures means that the overall presentation of business in China, Sparkle Roll Holdings Limited, a non-Group market such as China, the most judgemental input is the forecast We noted no instances of inappropriate or inconsistent presentation results is not fair, balanced and understandable.
company, retains a 15% economic interest in the Groups business performance of the Groups business in China.
We agreed this to of results and non-GAAP measures.
Specifically, we are satisfied in China.
A put option exists over this interest, which is exercisable latest available information including managements forecasts of the Consistent with prior years, the Group has identified two adjusting that non-GAAP measures are adequately explained and reconciled after 1 September 2020.
At 31 March 2015 the option is recorded future performance of the Groups business in China, actual historic items, being Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence to GAAP measures.
results of the China business and GDP growth forecasts for the intangible and Put option liability finance income charge.
Chinese economy as published by third-party sources.
The valuation of the put option over the non-controlling interest in the Groups business in China is based on a number of assumptions, The average historical Burberry Group plc multiple is in line with How we tailored the audit scope the key ones being the future performance of the Groups business in our recalculation of the multiple based on the Groups actual We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial China: the average historical Burberry Group plc multiple: and the risk multiple and is consistent with the average multiple for statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, adjusted discount rate for China, taking into account the risk free rate Burberrys peer group.
and the industry in which the Group operates.
We focused on Similarly, we critically assessed the risk adjusted discount rate for this area because of the inherent judgement involved in determining China to confirm this was in line with the China business cost of The Group operates across three regions and is structured across two channels to market, being retail wholesale and licensing.
these assumptions and the magnitude of the put option liability.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 97 reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and Changes in the fair value of the liability will be made through We tested the calculation of the liability to determine whether it was the Income Statement and could result in fluctuations in profit.
holding companies across the two channels to market.
Based on our risk and materiality assessments, we determined which entities were required to report full-scope audit opinions We confirmed the appropriateness of disclosures relating to the valuation, including the related sensitivities.
We confirmed that the to us having considered the relative significance of each entity to the Group, locations with significant inherent risks and the net present value of the put option has been recognised as a nonoverall coverage obtained over each material line item in the consolidated financial statements.
We identified six reporting units current financial liability under IAS 39 and that related disclosures which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics, are in line with the disclosure requirements contained within IFRS 7. providing 78% 2014: 79% coverage over Group revenue and 92% 2014: 91% coverage over profit before taxation.
113 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc How we tailored the audit scope continued In addition to the audits performed on full-scope components, we gathered other audit evidence across the rest of the Group through testing of the Groups global monitoring controls and global SAP system, Group-level analytical procedures and testing at the London and Hong Kong Shared Service Centres.
In addition, we performed statutory audits for many of the entities not in scope for reporting to Group.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Our Group engagement teams involvement included various site visits and component auditor working paper reviews across each of the Groups three regions, together with conference calls with the component audit teams and participation in all in scope component audit clearance meetings.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 20 million 2014: 20 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation.
Rationale for benchmark applied Burberry is a profit orientated entity and hence profit before taxation has been selected as the benchmark.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.75 million 2014: 0.75 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 107, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors on page 110, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance We have no exceptions Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable to report arising from this and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy responsibility.
is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 77, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no exceptions Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
to report arising from this responsibility.
114 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc How we tailored the audit scope continued Adequacy of information and explanations received In addition to the audits performed on full-scope components, we gathered other audit evidence across the rest of the Group Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and through testing of the Groups global monitoring controls and global SAP system, Group-level analytical procedures and testing explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
at the London and Hong Kong Shared Service Centres.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the specified by law are not made.
reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of Corporate Governance Statement involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Our Group Companys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having performed engagement teams involvement included various site visits and component auditor working paper reviews across each of our review.
the Groups three regions, together with conference calls with the component audit teams and participation in all in scope component audit clearance meetings.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors Materiality As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 110, the directors are responsible for the The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole as follows: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or Overall Group materiality 20 million 2014: 20 million.
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation.
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.75 million reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
2014: 0.75 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and Going concern adequately disclosed: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 107, in relation to going concern.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, ability to continue as a going concern.
substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies Other required reporting with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, Consistency of other information or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of Companies Act 2006 opinion any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Other matters We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Burberry Group plc for the year ended ISAs UK & Ireland reporting 31 March 2015 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or responsibility.
Andrew Kemp The statement given by the directors on page 110, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance We have no exceptions Senior Statutory Auditor, Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable to report arising from this for and on behalf of  LLP, and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy responsibility.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
London, 19 May 2015 The section of the Annual Report on page 77, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no exceptions Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
