Independent auditors report to the members of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Our response We have audited the financial statements of Cable & Wireless Our audit procedures over preliminary acquisition accounting included, Communications Plc for the year ended 31 March 2015 set out among others: on pages 92 to 168 excluding pages 93 and 97.
In our opinion: Using our own valuation specialists to assist us in critically assessing: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the the methodology for and inputs used in the valuation of shares Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 issued and options granted: and and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the appropriateness of the identified intangibles, against the criteria The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in of the relevant accounting standards, and the appropriateness of accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as the discount rates: and comparing the inputs used in determining adopted by the European Union: the discount rate to externally derived data.
The Parent Company financial statements have been properly Testing the principles and integrity of the Groups cash flow model prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and used in determining fair value of acquired intangible assets.
We The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with compared the Groups forecast revenue growth and margins the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the assumptions to our own assessments in relation to key inputs such as Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
market performance and economic conditions in each of the regions.
We gained an understanding of the principles applied by the Directors in determining their acquisition date fair value information.
In respect 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement of significant adjustments we challenged the Groups assumptions In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the based on our knowledge and experience of the industry in which risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our Columbus operates.
We agreed significant transactions to supporting audit are set out below.
documentation, such as underlying contracts, third party The Audit Committees consideration of these significant risks is set confirmations and valuation reports discussed above.
out in the Audit Committee report on pages 62 to 63.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the acquisition and the related judgements in note 3.11.
Acquisition accounting Acquisition accounting see note 3.11 and note 5.1.
3 for accounting Valuation of trade receivables and accrued income policy and note 5.2.
7 for critical accounting estimates and judgements.
Net trade receivables US$330 million and accrued income US$84 million see notes 3.1 and 5.1.
4 for accounting policy Risk and notes 5.2.
3 for critical accounting estimates and The acquisition of Columbus on 31 March 2015 for a consideration of judgements.
US$2,121 million was a significant acquisition for the Group.
Accounting for the acquisition requires the Group to determine the Risk preliminary fair value of consideration transferred and the net assets The Group has significant trade receivables and accrued income with acquired as part of the acquisition.
customers in Panama and the Caribbean.
This requires the Group to make a number of judgements, which focus Given the age profile and high debt levels in these regions and the level on, but are not limited to: of judgement required in determining the provision levels on these balances, this is considered a significant risk.
Valuation of the shares issued and options granted as part consideration for the acquisition: Our response Identification of intangible assets acquired: and Our audit procedures on the existing businesses included among others: Determining the 31 March 2015 Columbus balance sheet.
Testing of controls over the Groups collection procedures, and the Groups assessment of the provision required at every period end: In determining the fair value of the acquired intangible assets, medium-term cash flow forecasts have been prepared by the Group.
Testing the receipt of cash after the year end for enterprise and The inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting future cash flows and government customers: and the judgement involved in the selection of the appropriate discount We have critically assessed the Groups provision levels by considering rate makes this a key area of focus.
the historical cash collection trends and the local economic Due to the timing of the Groups acquisition of Columbus, the Groups environment in each of the regions.
acquisition accounting information is preliminary and is based on the On Columbus trade receivables, we critically assessed the provision most recently available Columbus information, adjusted for significant levels by considering the historical cash collection trends in the in transactions to the acquisition date.
Identifying and measuring these scope businesses.
adjustments is complex and can require the Directors to use estimates.
As a result this was one of the focus areas of our audit.
On all receivables, we have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provision.
Annual Report 2014 15 159 Independent auditors report continued 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Revenue recognition Carrying value of PPE and assets held for sale Revenue US$1,753 million see note 2.1, note 5.1.
14 for accounting PPE US$2,523 million and assets held for sale US$137 million policy and note 5.2.
3 for critical accounting estimates and judgements.
5 for accounting policies and note 5.2.
1 for critical accounting estimates and judgements.
Risk The Groups revenue consists primarily of mobile, broadband, TV, fixed Risk line and Managed Services contracts.
There is a risk of impairment of the Groups PPE assets particularly Revenue from mobile, broadband and fixed line products is considered in the Caribbean region in light of recent impairments in that region, a significant risk due to both the bundling of these services and together with technological change, challenging economic conditions the complexity of the Groups systems and processes used to and changing competitive and regulatory landscapes.
During the year the Group recorded assets write-offs and impairment charges in LIME as a result of technological change and the acquisition Our response of Columbus expected to render parts of the existing network Our audit procedures over revenue included, among others: redundant.
The Group has determined the impacted assets from the Testing of controls, assisted by our IT specialists including those over: integration plans and the value in use is determined based on set-up of customer accounts, pricing data, segregation of duties, estimates for the following: average revenue rates, engineering and the linkage to usage data that drives revenue recognition.
estimates of timing of migration to acquired networks and an Compensating manual controls were tested for certain legacy estimated allocation of costs for the total business.
Also judgement is system issues in LIME and BTC: involved in the selection of the appropriate discount rate which makes this a key area of focus for our audit.
To assess the relative fair value of each separable component within a price plan, we tested the controls over the Groups estimate of As part of obtaining regulatory approvals for the acquisition of standalone value.
This included comparing the standalone fair Columbus in Trinidad and Tobago, the Group agreed to divest its 49% values to published information on the standalone price for each shareholding in Telecommunication Services of Trinidad and Tobago component: and TSTT.
As such, the investment in TSTT has been classified as an asset held for sale as at 31 March 2015.
In determining fair value of TSTT, Performing an analysis of revenue and deferred revenue based on our the Group is required to make a number of judgements which focus industry knowledge, forming an expectation of revenue based on key on, but are not limited to: recent trading performance, economic and performance indicators taking into consideration disconnections, market conditions and data from comparable market transactions in installations, changes in rates and trends in deferred income days.
We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the accounting policies on revenue recognition set out in 5.1.
Our response Our audit procedures included among others: PPE: Assessing the appropriateness of the assets impacted by 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope technological change based on capital expenditure plans and discussing of our audit the key changes with the Groups technology teams.
We agreed the The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set value of the assets written off to the underlying fixed asset registers.
at US$12 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation for continuing operations normalised to exclude Inspecting the integration plans and discussing the key terms with the exceptional costs as disclosed in the Group Consolidated Income engineering teams to critically assess the appropriateness of the Statement of which it represents 4.5%.
Groups determination of assets impacted by the acquisition and the assumptions used in the value in use models.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding US$0.6 million, in addition to We challenged the assumptions used in the value in use models by other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on forming an expectation of the assumptions in light of our knowledge qualitative grounds.
of the client and experience of the telecom industry in each of the markets the Group operates in.
Our Group audit scope focused on the key operating locations Panama, The Bahamas and the four principal operating locations TSTT: Using our own valuation specialists to assist us in critically within LIME, together with the Groups Associate in Trinidad and assessing the appropriateness of the judgements made and comparing Tobago, which were all subject to a full scope audit for the year ended the inputs used in determining fair values to internally and externally 31 March 2015 and were performed by component auditors in these derived data.
Following the acquisition of Columbus at year end, opening We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures and assessed balance sheet audits were performed at Columbus Jamaica and whether disclosures for PPE and assets held for sale about the Columbus Trinidad by component auditors in these countries and at sensitivity of the outcome of the assessment to changes in key Columbus Networks by the Group audit team.
assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the key In addition, the Group audit team performed specified audit assumptions and the requirements of accounting standards.
procedures on the Group Functions using a materiality of US$10 million.
These locations represent the principal business units of the Group and account for 95% of the Groups total assets, 88% of the Groups revenue and 91% of the total profits and losses that made up 160 Cable & Wireless Communications the Groups profit before tax from continuing operations.
For the Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated not made: or Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no We have not received all the information and explanations we significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit The Directors statement, set out on page 58, in relation to going team approved the component materialities which ranged from concern: and US$4 million to US$6 million, having regard to the mix of size The part of the corporate governance statement on pages 48 to 58 and risk profile of the Group across the components.
relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the The Group audit team visited five out of the nine full scope locations 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
not audited by the Group audit team.
Telephone meetings and video We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
conferences were also held with the auditors at all locations throughout the audit.
At these meetings, the findings reporting to the Scope of report and responsibilities Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set required by the Group audit team was then performed by the out on page 89, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of component auditor.
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act uk auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made solely to the Companys 2006 is unmodified members as a body and subject to important explanations and In our opinion: disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at The part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an 2006: and understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
The information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared John Edwards Senior Statutory Auditor is consistent with the financial statements.
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which London E14 5GL we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based 19 May 2015 on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or The Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Annual Report 2014 15 161
