Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CAIRN ENERGY PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR OPINION In our opinion: Cairn Energy PLCs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the groups loss and the groups and the parent companys cash flows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Group Balance Sheet and the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015: the Group Income Statement and the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Group Statement of Cash Flows and the Company Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Context The context for our audit is set by Cairn Energy PLCs Cairn major activities in 2015, together with the sustained low world oil prices throughout the year.
In the year, Cairn has continued to progress their development assets in the Catcher and Kraken North Sea fields and commenced a three well appraisal programme offshore Senegal.
They also farmed-down a 10% interest in the Catcher field to Dyas in January 2015.
Away from core operations, Cairns main focus has been dealing with the continuing restriction on the ability to sell the remaining 10% holding in Cairn India, the ongoing discussions with the Indian Tax Authorities in relation to the draft assessment order issued in March 2015, and the final assessment order received in February 2016.
OVERVIEW Overall group materiality: $23.1 million 2014: $30.2 million, which represents 1% of group total assets.
Materiality The group is structured into 49 reporting units or components.
We performed a full scope audit on six components due to the contribution they made to group total assets.
A further three components were subject to full scope audit on a risk basis due to the carrying value of their exploration and development Audit scope assets.
We performed the majority of audit work in the UK, with PwC Norway performing the audit work on the North West Europe component.
The group audit team visited Norway as part of the audit process.
Areas of Our audit obtained coverage of over 97% of group total assets.
focus Risk of impairment of exploration & development assets and goodwill.
Potential impact on tax provisions of tax enquiry in relation to Cairn India Limited.
Other tax judgements, which were an area of focus last year, have been considered to be of lower risk this year due to there being fewer events which triggered industry-specific tax considerations, and accordingly are not an area of focus for the current year audit.
THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT AND OUR AREAS OF FOCUS We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 105 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CAIRN ENERGY PLC CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of impairment of exploration development assets and goodwill This risk has increased compared to the prior year due to the current outlook We tested managements impairment review of goodwill, capitalised exploration for the market prices for oil remaining low, impacting the value associated with and capitalised development costs by performing the following work.
We read managements assessment of impairment triggers and did not identify Exploration assets of $425.0m relate to costs incurred where there is expected any further triggers which had not been considered by management.
future activity but no approved development plan.
Development assets of $579.6m reflect spend to 31 December 2015 on Catcher and Kraken.
Both of these tangible fixed asset categories require an impairment review only if Specific work we performed over the impairment review included: an impairment trigger is identified.
comparing the assumptions used within the impairment review model to approved budgets and business plans and other evidence of future The goodwill balance of $131.9m arose on the acquisitions of Agora and Nautical intentions for individual exploration properties, which we found to be in 2012.
As required by IAS 36, an annual impairment review is performed on materially consistent: this balance.
comparing reserves and production profiles and matching capital and Relevant indicators of impairment in the Oil & Gas industry include: operating expenditure forecasts to group approved values or operator unsuccessful exploration such as experienced in Cap Boujdour and Crossbill estimates, which we found to be materially consistent: during the year: benchmarking of key assumptions including commodity price and discount rate the sustained environment of low oil price outlook: and inflation against our own internal data and recent public announcements changes to exploration plans: from other oil companies.
We found certain assumptions used by Cairn, changes to reserves estimates: and including the long-term oil price, to be at the upper end of a reasonable range, consolidated net assets being more than $0.7bn greater than the market while other assumptions, for example the use of a 3 year forward curve, were capitalisation of the group.
towards the lower end of a reasonable range: in combination, we consider the assumptions used by Cairn to be reasonable and in line with our expectations When an impairment review and calculation are performed, there are significant based on information that is publicly available about other market participants: judgements in relation to the assumptions made such as: we read managements sensitivity analysis and performed additional long-term oil price: sensitivity analysis over key assumptions in the model in order to assess the reserve estimates: potential impact of a range of possible outcomes.
For Catcher and Kraken, production volume profiles: we determined that the calculation was most sensitive to assumptions cost profiles and escalation applied: and relating to the oil price: and discount rates.
assessed the inclusion of all appropriate assets and liabilities in the cash generating unit and in particular given that the recoverable amount is We focused on this area due to the significant values and the nature of the determined based on a fair value less costs of disposal, the inclusion or judgements and assumptions management are required to make in determining exclusion of certain tax related balances and agreed that all relevant whether there are any impairment triggers or impairments.
Refer to Notes 2.1, 2.2 and 2.6 to the financial statements.
None of the items described above resulted in a change to the impairment charge recorded by management.
106 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Potential impact on tax provisions of tax enquiry in relation to Cairn India Limited We focused on this area because on 22 January 2014 the Group received a In assessing the potential impact of the draft assessment order from the Indian request for information from the Indian tax authorities in respect of amendments tax authorities we: introduced in the 2012 Indian Finance Act which seek to tax prior year transactions read the correspondence received by the Group from the Indian under legislation applied retrospectively.
At the same time the Group received an tax authorities: order not to sell the remaining shares in Cairn India.
understood the group reconstruction under review, and the potential basis for any claim, including the relevant legislation and other precedent: On 10 March 2015, a draft assessment order was received from the Indian tax discussed with management the advice and action they had taken with authorities for an amount of $1.6 billion plus interest and penalties.
Cairn are continuing to contest this draft assessment order and there is no certainty over regards to the enquiry and reviewed any associated documents: and the outcome.
discussed certain aspects of the matter directly with the groups legal advisers.
A final assessment order was received in February 2016, which Cairn are contesting, quantifying the interest at $2.8bn, bringing the total potential We concluded that the position adopted in the financial statements was exposure to $4.4bn.
reasonable based on the work we performed, in particular: Management have made judgements relating to the likelihood of an obligation managements view that no provision for tax should be made at this time: arising and whether there is a need to recognise a provision or disclose a the adequacy of the disclosure in the Annual Report: and contingent liability.
the impact of the restriction on sale of Cairn India shares on the future funding requirements for the Group.
Although Cairn received a final demand from the Indian Tax Authorities in February 2016, we consider the level of risk to be the same as last year We also considered whether this ongoing enquiry would have any impact on the as the Group is going through due process in relation to this tax issue.
carrying value of the investment in Cairn India Limited of $384.0m.
We noted that while the group are restricted from selling the investment, this is a restriction Refer to Note 5.5 to the financial statements.
directly on them and not all market participants, and therefore it does not affect the fair value of the underlying investment, which is the basis on which it is carried in the consolidated balance sheet.
Going concern We believe this risk has increased from last year as the Group has continued to incur In assessing the appropriateness of the going concern assumption used in operating and capital expenditure and does not yet have revenue-producing assets.
preparing the financial statements, we: In addition, the lower oil price has reduced the level of funding available under the reviewed the cash flow requirements of the Group over the next 18 months RBL facility.
based on budgets and forecasts: understood what forecast expenditure is committed and what could be We focused on this area as the Group is in the exploration and development phase considered discretionary: and is therefore reliant on having sufficient funding to progress their asset portfolio.
considered the liquidity of existing assets on the balance sheet, including the As the group currently has no significant cash-generating assets in operation, there Cairn India investment: is a finite cash resource to fund ongoing activities and therefore we have focused on reviewed the terms associated with the debt agreement and the amount of whether there are sufficient cash resources in place to allow the group to continue the facility available for drawdown: and as a going concern.
considered potential downside upside scenarios and the resultant impact on available funds.
In addition, the restriction on selling the remaining Cairn India shares noted above means the Group is currently unable to access the value in this investment to fund Our conclusion on going concern is below.
During 2014, the group negotiated a debt facility to partially fund the development of Catcher and Kraken, and are required to meet a liquidity test to allow them to drawdown this facility.
Cairn are also planning to drill one exploration well in North West Europe and complete the three well appraisal program in Africa over the next 12-18 months which will be funded from existing cash resources.
HOW WE TAILORED THE AUDIT SCOPE We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
For operating purposes, the group is structured around three key segments: Atlantic Margin, North West Europe and Other.
During 2015, North West Europe has seen the most significant development activity, with the main exploration activity being undertaken in the Atlantic Margin, consistent with 2014.
For accounting purposes, the group is structured into 49 reporting units or components.
The majority of the finance function is based in Edinburgh, other than North West Europe which is primarily accounted for in Norway.
Our PwC Norway audit team performed the audit work on the North West Europe components and all other audit work was performed by our UK audit team.
Our group scoping was based on total assets, consistent with our approach to materiality, and identified six financially significant components, comprising a high proportion of total group assets, which required an audit of their complete financial information.
A further three components were identified as significant from a risk perspective due to the carrying value of their exploration and development assets, which were subject to a full scope audit.
Two components were subject to specified procedures on certain financial statement line items FSLI to obtain sufficient coverage.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 107 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CAIRN ENERGY PLC CONTINUED The UK team attended audit planning and closing meetings in Norway, as well as being directly involved in the scoping and review of the work performed by PwC Norway.
Our group audit approach resulted in coverage of over 97% of the group total assets, our key benchmark for planning and scoping our audit.
MATERIALITY The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality $23.1 million 2014: $30.2 million.
How we determined it 1% of total assets.
We believe that total assets is an appropriate measure for an exploration and development Oil and Gas group that does not Rationale for benchmark applied currently have producing assets.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $1.15 million 2014: $1.50 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
GOING CONCERN Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 117, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 67 to 75 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
108 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information ISAS UK & IRELAND REPORTING Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 66, in accordance with provision We have no exceptions to report.
C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 76 to 80, as required by provision We have no exceptions to report.
C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 38 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
how they are being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 43 of the Annual Report, in accordance We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
ADEQUACY OF ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND INFORMATION AND EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 109 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CAIRN ENERGY PLC CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 66, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
MICHAEL TIMAR SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Glasgow 14 March 2016 a The maintenance and integrity of the Cairn Energy PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
110 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information CONTENTS 112 Group Income Statement 112 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 113 Group Balance Sheet 114 Group Statement of Cash Flows 115 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 116 Section 1 Basis of Preparation 116 1.1 Significant Accounting Policies 117 1.2 Going Concern 118 Section 2 Oil and Gas Assets, Decommissioning Provisions and Related Goodwill 119 2.1 Intangible Exploration Appraisal Assets 121 2.2 Property, Plant & Equipment Development Producing Assets 122 2.3 Gain on Disposal of Oil and Gas Assets 122 2.4 Provisions Decommissioning 123 2.5 Capital Commitments 123 2.6 Intangible Assets Goodwill 124 2.7 Impairment Testing Sensitivity Analysis 125 Section 3 Financial Assets and Working Capital 125 3.1 Available-for-sale Financial Assets 126 3.2 Cash and Cash Equivalents 127 3.3 Other Receivables 127 3.4 Trade and Other Payables 128 3.5 Financial Instruments 129 3.6 Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies 131 Section 4 Results for the Year 131 4.1 Segmental Analysis 133 4.2 Pre-award Costs 134 4.3 Net Operating Expenses 134 4.4 Employee Benefits: Staff costs, Share-based payments and Directors emoluments 137 4.5 Finance Income 138 4.6 Finance Costs 138 4.7 Earnings per Ordinary Share 139 Section 5 Taxation 139 5.1 Tax Strategy and Governance 140 5.2 Tax Charge Credit on Loss for the Year 141 5.3 Income Tax Assets 142 5.4 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 143 5.5 Contingent Liability Indian Tax Assessment 144 Section 6 Capital Structure and Other Disclosures 144 6.1 Issued Capital and Reserves 145 6.2 Capital Management 145 6.3 Guarantees 146 6.4 Auditors Remuneration 146 6.5 Post Balance Sheet Events 147 Company Balance Sheet 148 Company Statement of Cash Flows 149 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 150 Section 7 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 150 7.1 Basis of Preparation 150 7.2 Cash and Cash Equivalents 150 7.3 Other Receivables 150 7.4 Trade and Other Payables 151 7.5 Financial Instruments 151 7.6 Investments in Subsidiaries 153 7.7 Capital Management 154 7.8 Related Party Transactions CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 111
