Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital & Counties Properties PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion: Capital & Counties Properties PLCs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report & Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Group and Company Balance sheets as at 31 December 2015: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company Statements of changes in equity and the Group and Company Statements of cash flows for the year then ended: and the Notes to the accounts, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the Notes to the accounts.
These are crossreferenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Context Our 2015 audit was planned and executed having regard to the fact that Capital & Counties Properties PLCs operations were largely unchanged in nature from the previous year, additionally, there have been no significant changes to the valuation methodology and accounting standards relevant to the Group.
In light of this, our approach to the audit in terms of scoping and areas of focus was largely unchanged.
Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 42 million 2014: 31 million which represents 1% of total assets.
Audit scope We audited the complete financial information of each of the Groups four business lines of which Covent Garden, Earls Court and Venues are financially significant.
Areas of focus Valuation of central London investment and development properties.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
com 91 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital & Counties Properties PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of investment and development properties Experience of Valuers and relevance of their work Refer to pages 62 to 64 Audit Committee Report, pages102 to 106 Principal Accounting Policies and pages 102 to 142 Notes to We read the Valuers reports from CB Richard Ellis and Jones Lang the accounts LaSalle, who between them, value the entire property portfolio.
We confirmed that the approaches used were consistent with RICS and the The valuation of the Groups investment and development properties is requirements of IFRS.
We assessed the Valuers competence and the key component of the net asset value and underpins the Groups capabilities and read their terms of engagement with the Group, result for the year.
The result of the revaluation this year was a gain determining that there were no matters that affected their independence of 454m 2014: 454m, which is accounted for within Gain on and objectivity or imposed scope limitations upon them.
revaluation and sale of investment and development property and is a significant component of total consolidated income.
The Groups Data provided to the Valuers property portfolios, which comprise investment property including, For investment and development properties we sample tested data retail, restaurants, offices, exhibition and residential and development provided to the Valuers by management and found that it was accurate property located in central London are not uniform in nature, and and reliable.
This data included tenancy schedules, capital expenditure therefore a number of different assumptions are made by the Groups details, cost schedules and square footage details which we agreed external valuers in determining fair value: back to appropriate supporting documentation.
For development properties we agreed that the planned schemes being valued were Investment properties The valuation of investment properties consistent with the actual planned developments and, where principally Covent Garden is inherently subjective, due principally appropriate, had achieved planning consents.
to the individual nature of each property including its location which heavily influences the future rental it is expected to generate.
The Assumptions and estimates used by the Valuers assumptions on which the property values are based are influenced We met with the Valuers independently of management and by tenure and tenancy details for each property, prevailing market challenged the valuation methods and assumptions used.
The nature yields and comparable market transactions.
of assumptions used varied across the portfolio depending on the nature of each property but they included estimated capital values, investment Development properties The valuation of development property yields, construction costs and developers margins.
In each of these is also inherently subjective.
Development properties principally areas, and on a sample basis, we compared the estimates and Earls Court, are valued using the residual appraisal method i. e. by assumptions used by the Valuers against our own expectations, using estimating the fair value of the completed project using either a sales evidence of comparable market transactions.
Where we identified comparison or income capitalisation method less estimated costs to estimates and assumptions that were outside the typical ranges used, completion and market based profit margin providing a return on we discussed these with the Valuers to understand the rationale development risk.
and then assessed, based on all the available evidence and our The valuations were carried out by third party valuers, Jones Lang experience in this sector, whether the use of the estimate or assumption LaSalle and CB Richard Ellis the Valuers.
They were engaged by was justified.
the Directors, in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards RICS.
The Valuers used by the Group are well-known Our testing which involved the use of our internal real estate valuation firms, with considerable experience of the Groups market.
specialists, qualified chartered surveyors with deep market knowledge, indicated that the estimates and assumptions used were appropriate in The fact that only a small percentage difference in individual property the context of the Groups property portfolios.
valuations, when aggregated, could result in a material misstatement, warrants specific audit focus on this area.
Taxation Refer to pages 62 to 64 Audit Committee Report, pages 102 to 106 We assessed the principal assumptions and judgements made in Principal Accounting Policies and pages 102 to 142 Notes to arriving at the current and deferred tax position by using our experience the accounts of similar matters in the industry.
Tax is a specific risk for the Group due to the degree of judgement We used our tax specialists to evaluate tax provisions and potential involved in some of the ongoing activities of the Group and the wider exposures as at 31 December 2015, challenging the Groups Group restructuring.
This gives rise to material tax considerations on the assumptions and judgements through our knowledge of the tax calculation, recognition, and classification of current and deferred tax circumstances and by reading relevant correspondence between the balances from both a tax compliance and accounting perspective.
Group and Her Majestys Revenue & Customs and the Groups external tax advisors.
Judgements are made by management to arrive at the current and deferred tax position.
These judgements include the impact of the Our testing did not identify any matters that the Directors had not transfer of investment properties and the Group holding structure.
adequately reflected in their calculation of the necessary current and deferred tax provisions.
92 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured along four business lines, Covent Garden, Earls Court Properties including the Lillie Square development joint venture, Venues and Other.
The Group engagement team audited all business lines except Venues a significant component, where the detailed audit procedures were performed by a separate PwC engagement team.
The Group team issued the Venues audit team with detailed instructions that explained the work that the Venues audit team needed to do and highlighted, in particular, the areas of focus insofar as they were relevant to the Venues business line.
Throughout the audit, the Group team communicated with the Venues team to make sure that we obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to form a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 42 million 2014: 31 million.
How we determined it 1% of total assets.
Rationale for benchmark The key area of focus in the audit is the valuation of investment and development properties and the balance applied sheet as a whole.
Given this, consistent with the prior year, we set an overall Group materiality level based on total assets.
In addition, a number of key performance indicators of the Group are driven by income statement items and we, therefore, applied a lower specific materiality of 16 million 2014: 13 million based on a three year average profit before tax for testing net rental income, finance costs and administrative expenses.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 2 million 2014: 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Statement, set out on page 89, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
com 93 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital & Counties Properties PLC continued OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 56 to 61 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 90, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report.
Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 63, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 14 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 We have nothing material to add or to of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, draw attention to.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add or to managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 17 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing material to add or to of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they draw attention to.
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
94 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 90, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Craig Gentle Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 24 February 2016 a The maintenance and integrity of the Capital & Counties Properties PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
