S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Card Factory plc Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit.
1 OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED We have audited the financial statements of Card Factory plc for the year ended 31 January 2015 set out on pages 76 to 114.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 January 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : and the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: IPO accounting and disclosures Refer to page 45 Audit and Risk Committee Report, page 81 accounting policy and page 87 financial disclosures The risk: The restructuring and subsequent listing of the Group in May 2014 led to a number of one-off unusual transactions including a share for share exchange on the introduction of a new holding Company and the issue of additional share capital.
Further, a significant level of professional and legal costs arose.
Due to the one-off, unusual nature of the transactions and the judgement involved in the classification of the IPO costs in the financial statements between profit and loss and equity, this has been an area of focus for our audit this year.
Our response: We considered the appropriateness of presentation and the level of disclosures of the share for share exchange and issue of share capital by obtaining and reading the relevant agreements, external legal step plans and Board minutes.
We evaluated the Groups classification of IPO costs as an expense or deduction from equity by obtaining supporting invoices for significant items and considering the nature and presentation of each cost.
Foreign exchange hedging Refer to page 45 Audit and Risk Committee Report, page 85 accounting policy and page 101 financial disclosures The risk: The Group hedges a high proportion of foreign currency stock purchases.
Where appropriate, hedge accounting is adopted by the Group.
Due to the degree of judgement and estimation in determining forecast cash flows there is a risk that the assumptions made in the prospective effectiveness testing are inappropriate, which would lead to the presentation of the fair value movement on the financial instruments in equity being incorrect.
Our response: We have assessed whether the controls in place around foreign exchange hedging are sufficient, appropriate and operate effectively by assessing whether effectiveness testing has been carried out prospectively and retrospectively on a monthly basis.
We have agreed all existing foreign exchange forward contracts at the year end to the hedge documentation prepared at the inception of the contract to assess whether this criteria for hedge accounting has been met.
We have obtained and considered the Directors assessment of prospective and retrospective hedge effectiveness and reperformed the calculation at the year end to assess their accuracy.
We have assessed historical accuracy of forecast foreign currency purchases to assess the reliability of the Groups forecasting.
We have determined whether the ineffective portion of the hedges have been charged to the income statement in line with accounting policies.
The mark to market value of the forward contract has been agreed to third-party confirmation for all contracts outstanding at the year end.
We assessed the adequacy of the financial instrument disclosures in the financial statements.
Inventory Refer to page 45 Audit and Risk Committee Report, page 86 accounting policy and page 93 financial disclosures The risk: Due to the nature of the business there is a high volume of items held in inventory.
Elements of the costing calculations are manual in nature as are certain controls around store inventory.
These controls include stock counts and review of stock levels by store.
Due to the significant volume of stock items and the broad product range there is a risk that a material misstatement could arise due to the volume or cost of inventory being incorrectly recorded.
C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 73 73 Our response: Our audit procedures included attendance at a sample of store inventory counts to test whether the quantities are stated correctly.
Because of the manual nature of the stock controls at the stores we performed additional testing which involved a comparison of actual store stock levels to our expectations, based on our understanding of the business, taking into consideration store size and the nature of the inventory.
We formed an expectation of stock levels for each of the stores investigated.
Where we found the level of stock was not in line with our expectations we evaluated the characteristics specific to the store to assess whether this supported the stock level held.
We performed testing over a sample of inventory lines to assess whether all elements of the costs attributed to them had been accurately input into the costing calculations.
We tested the cost inputs by obtaining supporting documentation and re-performing standard cost calculations.
We assessed whether the disclosures in relation to inventory were appropriate.
3 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole has been set at 3.5m determined by reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation of 65.5m, normalised to exclude this years exceptional IPO costs and amortisation of existing loan costs as disclosed in note 3: of which it represents 5%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 50,000 in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups three reporting components we subjected one to an audit for Group reporting purposes.
We conducted reviews of financial information to Group materiality including enquiries at the remaining two components as these entities were not material for Group reporting purposes.
These procedures covered 100% of total Group revenue: 100% of Group profit before taxation and 100% of total Group assets.
4 OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 IS UNMODIFIED In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF THE MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit and Risk Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 34 to 42 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
74 74 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 72, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Chris Hearld Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 The Embankment Neville Street Leeds LS1 4DW 24 March 2015 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 75 75
