Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Carillion plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit obtaining detailed position papers from the Group to support 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified estimates made, challenging these estimates with senior operational, We have audited the Group financial statements of Carillion plc for the commercial and financial management and assessing whether or not year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise the Group consolidated these estimates showed any evidence of management bias: income statement, the Group consolidated and Parent Company completing a number of site visits across the UK, Middle East and balance sheets, the Group consolidated statement of comprehensive Canada, meeting local management and overseas auditors, physically income, the Group consolidated and Parent Company statement of inspecting the stage of completion of individual projects and identifying changes in equity, the Group consolidated cash flow statement and the areas of complexity through observation and discussion with site related notes.
In our opinion: personnel: challenging the Groups judgement in respect of forecast contract the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the out-turn, quantum and allocation of contingencies, settlements and Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 the recoverability of contract balances with reference to our own and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: assessments, historical outcomes and industry norms: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in assessing the profile of aged work in progress on service contracts and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as challenging aged amounts for recoverability with a focus on claims and adopted by the European Union: variations recognised on individual contracts: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared analysing correspondence and meeting minutes with customers in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS101 around variations and claims, obtaining assessments of these from Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Groups legal or technical experts, if applicable: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the we also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group of these judgements.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Carrying value of goodwill 1,544.0 million 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Refer to page 54 Report of the Audit Committee, page 85 note In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the 1.
Significant accounting policies Goodwill and other intangible assets risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, and pages 98 to 99 note 11.
in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows unchanged from 2014 : The risk The Groups balance sheet includes goodwill, principally arising from historical acquisitions in the UK.
The risk is that the Recognition of contract revenue, margin, and related receivables goodwill allocated to cash generating units CGU is not recoverable and liabilities total revenue 4,586.9 million and should be impaired.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in Refer to page 54 Report of the Audit Committee, page 86 note forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which are the basis of the 1.
Significant accounting policies Revenue recognition and page 118 assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key judgemental areas note 32.
Accounting estimates and judgements Revenue recognition.
The risk The Group recognises revenue based on the stage of The Group annually carries out an impairment assessment of goodwill completion of construction contracts by taking the proportion of costs using a value-in-use model which is based on the net present value of incurred to the balance sheet date compared to the estimated final the forecast earnings of the cash-generating unit value-in-use.
This is costs of the contract at completion and therefore relies on estimates in calculated using certain assumptions around discount rates, growth rates relation to the final out-turn of costs on each contract.
Changes to these and cash flow forecasts.
estimates could give rise to material variances in the amount of revenue and margin recognised.
Cost contingencies may also be included in Given the relative size of the goodwill in the Group balance sheet, these estimates to take account of specific risks, or claims against the particularly in the UK Services CGU, relatively small changes in these Group, arising within each contract.
These contingencies are reviewed assumptions could give rise to material changes in the assessment of by the Group on a regular basis throughout the contract life and the carrying value of goodwill.
Finally, variations and claims are recognised on a contract-by-contract basis, both on service and Our response Our procedures included critically assessing the key construction contracts, where the Group believes the rights and assumptions applied by the Group in determining the recoverable obligations exist given the progress of negotiations.
There is therefore amounts of each CGU.
In particular, we: a high degree of judgement in: assessing the level of the cost considered the consistency and appropriateness of the allocation contingencies to recognise: appropriately recognising variations and of businesses and related goodwill balances into CGUs: claims: and estimating the revenue recognised by the Group based on considered the underlying assumptions in determining the cash the projected final out-turn on contracts.
flows and growth assumptions applied with reference to historical forecasting accuracy and wider macro environment conditions: Our response We evaluated the controls designed and implemented challenged the assumptions used in the calculation of the discount by the Group to monitor amounts owed on service and construction rates used by the Group, including comparisons with external data contracts, and in particular, the claims and variation elements across sources and consideration of the potential risk of management bias: the Group.
We attended and inspected minutes from certain meetings, performed our own sensitivity analysis, including a reasonably which form a key part of the Groups risk process to fully challenge at a possible reduction in assumed growth rates and cash flows to identify lower executive level both new tenders and contract bids, and ongoing areas to focus our procedures on and we also assessed whether the performance on existing contracts.
We then selected a sample of Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the contracts using a variety of quantitative and qualitative factors in order impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions appropriately to assess and challenge the most significant and more complex contract reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
In this area our audit procedures included: 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope considering the financial performance of the selected contracts of our audit against budget and historical trends to assess the historical accuracy Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 8.0 of judgement in the recognition of claims and variations as well as million 2014: 9.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of the final out-turn on contracts: Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude the acquisition costs set inspecting the contracts for key clauses, identifying relevant out in note 4, of which it represents 5.1 per cent 2014: 5.9 per cent.
contractual mechanisms such as pain gain shares, liquidated damages and success fees and considered their impact on the We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected completeness and existence of the amounts recognised in the identified misstatements exceeding 0.4 million 2014: 0.45 million in financial statements: addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77 Independent auditors report to the members of Carillion plc only continued Of the Groups 10 reporting components, we subjected five to audits In particular, we are required to report to you if: for Group reporting purposes and three to specified risk-focused audit procedures scoping unchanged from 2014.
The latter were not we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as to be addressed.
a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position The components, subjected to audits for Group reporting purposes and performance, business model and strategy: or covered 92 per cent of Group revenue, 86 per cent of Group profit the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address before tax and 80 per cent of Group total assets.
The components matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
subjected to specified risk-focused audit procedures covered 3 per cent of Group revenue, 13 per cent of Group profit before tax and 15 per cent Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, of Group total net assets.
in our opinion: For the remaining components, we performed analysis at a Group level adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received material misstatement within these.
from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed accounting records and returns: or above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not approved the component materialities, which ranged from 6.0 million made: or to 6.5 million 2014: 7.0 million to 7.5 million, having regard to the we have not received all the information and explanations we require mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
work on three of the five audited components was performed by component auditors with the remaining two, as well as all three not Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: individually financially significant components, by the Group audit team.
the Directors statements, in relation to going concern page 40 and The Group audit team visited five component locations in the United longer-term viability page 27 : and Kingdom, Canada, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Oman.
the part of the Corporate Governance statement on pages 45 to 49 Video and telephone conference meetings were also held with these relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of component auditors and the majority of the others that were not the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act set out on page 76, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 2006 is unmodified of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true In our opinion: and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been at www.
This report is made solely properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which consistent with the Group financial statements.
are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors viability statement on page 27, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three Peter Meehan Senior Statutory Auditor years to 2018: or for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor the disclosures in note 1.
Significant accounting policies basis of Chartered Accountants preparation of the financial statements concerning the use of the going One Snowhill concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we B4 6GH are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based 3 March 2016 on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 78
