Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 105 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements independent auditors report to the members of Centamin plc Report on the Group financial statements The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards In our opinion, Centamin plcs Group financial statements the on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
financial statements : We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective then ended: judgments, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future have been properly prepared in accordance with International events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, European Union: and including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due Companies Jersey Law 1991. to fraud.
What we have audited The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on The financial statements, included within the Annual our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are Report, comprise: identified as areas of focus in the table on page 106.
We have the consolidated statement of financial position as at also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific 31 December 2015: areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our year then ended: procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then list of all risks identified by our audit.
ended: Changes in areas of focus the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year In 2015, one addition was made to our areas of focus whilst two then ended: and others were removed.
Taxation was added as an area of focus as the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary the Group made taxable foreign exchange gains that gave rise to of significant accounting policies and other explanatory a material tax liability.
The Group also continues to invest within information.
multiple jurisdictions where tax practices are evolving, and therefore has to adopt tax positions that can be uncertain.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs The first area of focus removed was accounting for the Groups as adopted by the European Union.
interest in the Sukari Gold Mine.
Our work last year led us to concur with the directors determination that the Group satisfied Our audit approach context both the control and exposure to variable returns requirements for consolidation under IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements Centamin plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange and its IFRS 10.
We considered whether any material facts or principal operation is the Sukari Gold Mine in Egypt.
Although circumstances underlying this conclusion had changed in 2015, and production of gold has increased in 2015, following the completion satisfied ourselves that they had not.
As a result, this was not an of the Stage 4 expansion in 2014, weakening of the gold price has area of audit focus this year.
resulted in lower profitability than in the prior period.
In addition to the operation of Sukari, the Group continues its exploration Impairment of the Sukari Gold Mine was also not an area of program in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire, having decided in focus this year.
Our work last year identified that the gold price 2015 to conclude its exploration activities in Ethiopia.
would have to fall significantly below current levels to trigger an Overview impairment if other variables remained constant.
During 2015, management performed an impairment indicator analysis and Overall Group materiality: $5.4 million which represents 5% of concluded that no indicators existed.
We concurred with this view, threeyear average profit before tax, after exceptional items and consequently did not focus our audit work on this area.
The lower materiality in 2015 reflects the lower profitability of the Group, principally due to the fall in gold price.
We focused our audit procedures on the Sukari Gold Mine, as well as performing full scope audits over the Groups significant exploration and corporate operations.
This resulted in six components 2014: three being subject to an audit of their complete financial information and involved performing the related audit work in Egypt and Jersey.
As a consequence of the lower Group materiality and increased exploration activity, we brought additional business units into scope this year and performed extended audit procedures at inscope business units to maintain audit coverage levels comparable with the prior year.
All audit work on the areas of focus was performed by the Group audit engagement team.
106 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements independent auditors report continued to the members of Centamin plc area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We held discussions with management regarding their calculation taxation of taxes payable and obtained managements calculation.
Where Refer to page 127 note 7 to the financial statements and management had obtained independent tax advice, we obtained page 34 Principal risks.
that advice and our own tax specialists in the relevant jurisdictions The Group operates across a number of jurisdictions and, like evaluated it, using their relevant experience and knowledge.
most Groups, is subject to periodic challenges by local tax We also used our specialists to assist in the audit of the calculation authorities on a range of tax matters during the normal course of current tax payable in note 7 to the financial statements and of business.
determined that it was accurate and complete.
We also reviewed Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, the Group the disclosure of taxes payable in note 7 and determined that it establishes provisions based on managements best judgment was consistent with the requirements of IFRS and the results of of the probable amount of the liability.
In addition, as at 31 December 2015 the Group has current tax For matters where the amount of tax payable was uncertain, we payable of $6.8 million as the result of taxable foreign exchange tested managements assessment of the probable amount of the gains realised during the year, which we considered merited liability, involving our tax specialists to satisfy ourselves that tax our focus.
provisions had been appropriately recorded where required.
the appeal before the supreme administrative court in egypt We discussed the legal case with the Groups legal team, and concerning the validity of the sukari concession agreement considered appropriate documentation to understand the Refer to page 134 note 20 to the financial statements and page legal position and the basis of the directors assessment of the 34 Principal risks.
outcome of the court case.
The Group is in the process of appealing a ruling passed by the We assessed the competence, capability and objectivity of Egyptian Administrative Court in October 2012. internal and external legal counsel by considering professional qualifications, fee arrangements and other relevant factors.
These If the ruling is upheld, the Groups operations at the Sukari site will procedures satisfied us internal and external legal counsel were be significantly reduced and there is, therefore, a risk of material competent, capable and objective.
impairment in property, plant and equipment at Sukari, which had a carrying value of $961.5 million at 31 December 2015.
We also obtained and read a copy of the Concession Agreement, as signed by the relevant parties.
The outcome of this case is subject to significant uncertainty due to ongoing political, social and economic volatility in Egypt.
The directors assessed that the Groups case has strong legal merit and will ultimately be successful.
Based on our work, we determined that the directors had reflected all available information in their assessment.
We tested the disclosures in note 20 to the financial statements and determined that they were consistent with the requirements of IFRS and the results of our audit work.
the claim before the administrative court concerning diesel We discussed the legal fuel subsidy cases with the Groups legal fuel disputes team, and considered appropriate documentation to understand Refer to page 133 note 20 to the financial statements and page the legal position and to evaluate the directors assessment of the 34 Principal risks.
The Group is involved in an ongoing legal case relating to We assessed the competence, capability and objectivity of historical and current fuel subsidies.
The potential amount that internal and external counsel, by considering professional could be recouped by the Group relating to the current subsidy qualifications, fee arrangements and other relevant factors.
These case is $208.0 million and the potential amount that the Group procedures satisfied us internal and external legal counsel were could have to pay if they lose the historical case is EGP403 million competent, capable and objective.
approximately US$51 million at current exchange rates.
The results of the procedures we performed, as described above, To date, the Group has not provided for the historical case, based supported the directors accounting treatment, under which no on internal and external assessments of the merits of the case, liability was recognised in respect of the historical case and no but has made disclosure of a contingent liability.
asset was recognised in respect of the current subsidy case.
In 2015, the Group has disclosed the impact of the current We considered whether any new factors had arisen this year subsidy case, being the difference between international that would impact the appropriateness of continuing to disclose and subsidised diesel price that has impacted the Groups this item as exceptional.
There were no new developments of results for the year, as an exceptional item in the consolidated this nature.
No contingent asset has We also considered the sufficiency of the disclosure regarding been recognised.
the case and found that it was consistent with the requirements of IFRS and gave a balanced description of the case.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 107 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements How we tailored the audit scope Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial Overall Group materiality $5.4 million 2014: $7.7 million.
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure How we determined it 5% of threeyear average profit of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the before tax, after exceptional items.
industry in which the Group operates.
Rational for We used the profit before tax after Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the benchmark applied exceptional items benchmark, a Group and its environment, including Groupwide controls, and generally accepted auditing practice assessing the risks of material misstatement at Group level.
The and took a threeyear average Group is headquartered in Jersey and has production operations to eliminate the effects of gold in Egypt, with exploration activity in Ethiopia, Burkina Faso and price volatility.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to Based on that assessment, our Group audit scope focused primarily them misstatements identified during our audit above $270,000 on the Sukari Gold Mine in Egypt, the Groups principal operation, 2014: $385,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, which was subject to a fullscope audit, as was Pharaoh Gold Mines, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
which holds the Groups interest in Sukari.
In addition the Groups Going concern principal exploration asset Ampella Mining Ltd was subject to a full scope audit this year reflecting the increased activity in 2015, whilst The directors have voluntarily complied with Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R the reduced profit this year meant that Centamin Group Services, 3 a of the Financial Conduct Authority and provided a statement which incurs some of the Groups operating expenses, was also in relation to going concern, set out on page 103, required for UK subject to a full scope audit this year.
We visited the Sukari Gold companies with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Mine and conducted audit fieldwork in Alexandria and Jersey.
The directors have requested that we review the statement on During these visits, we observed and discussed mining operations going concern as if the company were a premium listed UK with local management and met with the Groups external company.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
incountry legal counsel in Cairo.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we Furthermore, we performed work over the consolidation of the have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation Groups components and significant head office and consolidation to the directors statement about whether they considered it adjustments.
This approach enabled us to have greater than 90% appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the coverage of profit before tax, revenue and total assets within the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw consolidated financial statements.
All audit work was performed by attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded Materiality that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
108 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements independent auditors report continued to the members of Centamin plc Other required and voluntary reporting consistency of other information isas UK & ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report.
information in the Annual Report is: i materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or ii apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or iii otherwise misleading.
the explanation given by the directors on page 104, in accordance with provision We have no exceptions to report.
C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, as to why the Annual Report does not include a statement that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the explanation given by the directors on page 98, as required by provision C. 3.8 of We have no exceptions to report.
the Code, as to why the Annual Report does not include a section that appropriately addresses matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under isas UK & ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 104 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to add or to provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the draw attention to.
principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are We have nothing material to add or to being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 37 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to add or to provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the draw attention to.
Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 109 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & the principal risks facing the Group, and the directors have Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing requested that we review the directors statement in relation to Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the longerterm viability of the Group required under the Listing This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only Rules for UK companies with a premium listing on the London for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Stock Exchange.
Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no other Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired What an audit of financial statements involves by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and report having performed our review.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Adequacy of information and explanations received assurance that the financial statements are free from material Under Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and assessment of: explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the report arising from this responsibility.
Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and Corporate governance statement adequately disclosed: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the directors: and the Code.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinions on additional disclosures We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors remuneration report directors judgments against available evidence, forming The company voluntarily prepares a directors remuneration report our own judgments, and evaluating the disclosures in the in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. financial statements.
The directors have requested that we audit the part of the directors We test and examine information, using sampling and other remuneration report specified by the Companies Act 2006 to be auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide audited as if the company were a UKquoted company.
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information corporate governance statement in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the The company prepares a corporate governance statement that audited financial statements and to identify any information that is includes the information with respect to internal control and risk apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent management systems and about share capital structures required with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the by the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Conduct Authority.
The directors have requested that we report on or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
the consistency of that information with the financial statements.
In our opinion, the information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 67 and 68 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital Richard Spilsbury structures is consistent with the financial statements.
for and on behalf of  LLP Opinion on other matters Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor In our opinion the information given in the strategic report and London the directors report for the financial year for which the financial 21 March 2016 statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit a The maintenance and integrity of the Centamin plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does Our responsibilities and those of the directors not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
set out on page 104, the directors are responsible for the b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in they give a true and fair view.
