80 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the members of Centrica plc REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
Our opinion These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are In our opinion: identified as audited.
Centrica plcs Group financial statements and Company financial The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the statements the financial statements give a true and fair view preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit and cash flows framework that has been applied in the preparation of the for the year then ended: Company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Accounting Practice.
the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Accounting Practice: and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Inparticular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective What we have audited judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting The financial statements, included within the Annual Report estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future andAccounts the Annual Report, comprise: events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015: addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015: including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the the Group Income Statement and the Group Statement Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: tofraud.
the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year identified as areas of focus on page 81.
We have also set out how then ended: and we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of comments we make on the results of our procedures should be significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
This is not a complete list of all risksidentified by our audit.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Audit scope business units not Overall Group materiality: We conducted our audit included in the scope 78 million which work across the Groups ofthe audit where they represents 5% of 3 year locations including the UK, contained material average pre-tax profit the Republic of Ireland, financial balances.
adjusted for exceptional The Netherlands, Norway, Areas of focus Materiality items and certain the US and Canada: Our areas of focus re-measurements as Senior members of comprised: defined in the financial theGroup audit team Impairment assessment: statements.
performed site visits Valuation of derivative across the Groups transactions in commodity locations.
This included trading: Direct Energy in Houston, Audit scope Presentation of the Exploration & exceptional items and Production business in certain re-measurements: Norway and the significant Onerous contracts: parts of the UK business Downstream revenue including British Gas and recognition: Centrica Energy: and Pensions: and Areas of focus Taken together, the Going concern.
territories and functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 94% of Group revenues and 77% of Group profit before tax.
We also performed specific audit procedures on the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 81 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We assessed and challenged the impairment analysis prepared by the Impairment assessment Directors as outlined below.
The Group has 4.6billion of property, plant and equipment, the majority of which relates to gas production and storage assets and power With regard to the overall impairment assessments performed by the generation assets: 1.8billion of intangible assets and 2.0billion of Directors, we evaluated the design of internal controls in place to check goodwill, arising predominantly from historical acquisitions in Centrica that the Groups assets are valued appropriately including those controls Energy Exploration & Production in Europe.
in place to determine any asset impairments or impairment reversals.
We also reviewed the assets not assessed by management for Impairment assessments of these assets require significant judgement impairment indicators and no indicators were identified.
and there is the risk that valuation of the assets may be incorrect and anypotential impairment charge miscalculated.
We evaluated the Directors assumptions and estimates used to determine the recoverable value of the gas production and storage The value of Centricas assets is supported by either value in use assets, power generation assets, intangible assets, and goodwill.
calculations, which are based on future cash flow forecasts or fair Thisincludes those relating to operating cost forecasts and expected valueless costs of disposal.
Market conditions in 2015 have been very production profiles.
We tested these assumptions by reference to challenging.
Falling forecast oil and gas prices have had a significant thirdparty documentation where available, such as commodity price impact on the Exploration & Production business and outages and falling forecasts, and consultation with operational management.
We used power prices have put pressure on power generation.
These unfavourable PwC valuation specialists to help us assess the commodity prices macro-economic factors have heightened the possibility ofadecline in anddiscount rates used by the Directors.
We benchmarked these to the assets value in use and fair values.
As a result, taking account of external data and challenged the assumptions based on our knowledge declining oil, gas and power prices and expected future performance, of the Group and its industry.
In addition we tested managements the Directors have determined that certain Exploration & Production sensitivity and stress test scenarios and found they had applied assets and power generation assets, including the associated goodwill, appropriate judgement.
With regard to both the international Exploration & Production assets This has resulted in a total pre-tax impairment charge of 1,004 million and power generation assets, we focused on the Directors assertion being recognised in relation to the UK, The Netherlands and Norwegian that the fall in forecast commodity prices has been the key driver gas and oil assets, 210 million being recognised on Canadian of impairment.
We did this through discussions with management to Exploration & Production assets and 42 million in relation to gasassets understand the basis of their forecasts, comparing them to available in Trinidad and Tobago.
A further impairment charge of 609million was industry data, including price and consumption, and performing recognised in relation to goodwill.
sensitivity analysis on their assessments.
We also challenged the Also, in assessing their value in use, as a result of the significant fall Directors on the assessment of exceptional one-off drivers, such as in spark spreads and low capacity markets, the Group has recognised commodity prices, that have impacted value as opposed to operational a pre-tax impairment charge of 31 million in relation to the assets held issues incurred in the normal course of business.
under a finance lease on the Spalding power station.
The Group also We challenged the key assumptions used in each impairment model recognised a pre-tax impairment charge of 372 million on its nuclear and performed sensitivity analysis around key drivers of cash flow investment, due to declining forecasts of base load power prices and forecasts, including output volumes, commodity prices, operating capacity market auction prices.
costs and expected life of assets.
Impairment indicators were identified for the Storage facility following Based on our analysis and the analysis performed by our valuations operational issues and declining market spreads.
No impairment team, we did not identify any material issues with the valuation of chargewas recorded: however, the model remains highly sensitive international Exploration & Production, storage, power generation tokeyassumptions.
assets and goodwill, the accuracy of the impairment charges and Refer to pages 56 and 57 for details on the Audit Committee reviews the disclosures in the financial statements.
and conclusions and notes 3, 7, 13, 15 and S2 in the financial statements.
We assessed the overall commodity trading process, including internal Valuation of derivative transactions in risk management procedures and the system and controls around commoditytrading origination and maintenance of complete and accurate information The Group enters into a number of forward energy trades to help protect relating to derivative contracts.
We found the controls in place over and optimise the value of its underlying production and storage assets, this process to be operating effectively and therefore placed reliance power generation assets, and transportation assets, as well as to meet on these controls in our testing.
the future energy and supply needs of customers.
We tested the valuation of derivative contracts at the year-end date Certain of these arrangements are accounted for as derivative financial which require the use of management valuation models.
Our audit instruments and are recorded at fair value.
procedures focused on the integrity of these valuation models and the Judgement is required in valuing these derivative contracts, particularly incorporation of the contract terms and the key assumptions, including where the life of the contract is beyond the liquid market period.
The fair future price assumptions and discount rates.
We verified input prices value calculation requires bespoke models to be used that are specific into the system and recalculated valuations for a sample of derivatives, to the derivative and, as such, we gave particular focus to the valuation as well as performing sensitivity analyses for more complex derivatives.
of derivative contracts at the balance sheet date.
Our testing identified that the models used to value the contracts were Refer to pages 56 and 57 for details on the Audit Committee reviews appropriate and we did not identify any material issues over the and conclusions and notes 2 and 7 in the financial statements.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 82 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus For each of the material exceptional items we considered Directors Presentation of exceptional items and certain analyses of why they were determined to be exceptional and performed re-measurements our own, independent assessment by looking, primarily, at the nature The middle column of the income statement represents exceptional items of the items.
The detailed work we performed on the exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
In the current year there is a total pre-tax relating to the impairment charges, which is the most significant item, exceptional charge of 2,358 million and a 103 million pre-tax gain is described on page 81. relating to net re-measurements included within operating profit.
For certain re-measurements we audited the principles management use Exceptional items to determine whether a trade should be recognised as part of business The exceptional items are expected to be non-recurring and are disclosed performance or presented separately.
We evaluated whether the agreed separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence.
The current year principles had been applied consistently by testing that a sample of the pre-tax charge comprises a 1,865 million impairment of Exploration trades have been presented correctly as own-use or speculative trading.
&Production assets, a 121 million impairment of UK power generation assets and provisions for onerous power procurement contracts and a Based on the work performed we did not identify any material issues with 372million impairment of nuclear assets.
The charge is offset by the presentation, classification or disclosure of exceptional items and a512million tax credit comprising the net of taxation on exceptional certain re-measurements.
items of 477 million, an impairment charge of Exploration & Production deferred tax assets of 81 million and a 116 million credit arising from the change of UK tax rates.
The appropriate classification of exceptional items involves subjective judgement by management including whether the item is truly exceptional and non-recurring.
Our focus was on testing that the presentation and disclosure of these items is materially correct.
Certain re-measurements as defined in the financialstatements Certain re-measurements, which resulted in pre-tax gains totalling 103million, relate to the fair valuing of forward energy trades as described above in our area of focus on the valuation of derivative transactions in commodity trading.
There are two main types of trades: Optimisation trades It is the Directors view that movements in the fair value of optimisation trades do not reflect the underlying performance of the business because they are economically related to parts of thebusiness which are not fair valued, for example Exploration & Production Assets or downstream demand.
As such these trades are only reflected in business performance when the underlying transaction or asset impacts profit or loss.
Speculative trading is entered into for the purpose of making profit.
Therefore all fair value movements associated with it are disclosed as part of underlying business performance.
Our focus was on testing the correct classification of optimisation and speculative trades.
Refer to pages 56 and 57 for details on the Audit Committee reviews and conclusions and notes 2 and 7 in the financial statements.
We tested the identification and completeness of onerous contracts Onerous contracts through discussions with management, examination of board minutes, The Group enters into a number of significant and complex contracts, obtaining and reading the new significant contracts during the year forexample, forward gas purchase contracts and metering contracts.
and testing managements assumptions for a sample of contracts.
Macro-economic factors, such as forecast commodity price, can have a significant impact on the profitability of these contracts, and therefore the We tested the valuation of the onerous contract provisions by evaluating Directors make an assessment as to whether the impact of such factors whether appropriate judgements and assumptions had been applied has resulted in contracts becoming onerous.
in determining the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligation and the estimate of the expected benefits to be received under the contract.
A new onerous contract provision of 70 million has been recognised for the Spalding power station tolling agreement subsequent to the recording The Spalding power station tolling agreement was identified as onerous of an impairment.
The Directors existing assessment of expected costs as the contractual outflows exceed the forecast future economic benefit inrelation to the Rijnmond tolling contract, European gas transportation in the period to September 2021 due to the decline during 2015 in spark contracts and Direct Energy wind farm power purchase agreements spread forecasts together with updated operating cost forecasts.
have evaluated the cash flow model used by management to value the contract and are satisfied with managements approach to modelling Our focus on onerous contracts was assessing whether material onerous and the assumptions underpinning the cash flows.
contracts have been identified and that the valuation of any provision is materially correct.
Refer to pages 56 and 57 for details on the Audit Committee reviews and conclusions and notes 3 and 21 in the financial statements.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 83 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus In order to test the accuracy of the unread billed and unbilled revenue Downstream revenue recognition atBritish Gas and Bord Gis, we assessed the IT general controls, The accuracy of the recognition of energy services revenue within British system application controls and management controls in relation to Gas, Direct Energy and Bord Gis and its presentation in the income therevenue and billing systems.
Our testing found that the IT general statement is dependent on complex estimation methodologies algorithms controls and system application controls were sufficient to enable us used to assess the amount of energy supplied to customers between the to place reliance on the controls for the year end audit.
In Direct Energy date of the last meter reading and the year end unread.
Unread gas and our testing found that certain manual controls were sufficient to enable electricity comprises both billed and unbilled revenue.
The specific risk us to obtain some audit evidence from the operation of manual controls over unread revenue is the accuracy of the estimation.
Where an unread for the year-end audit.
estimate is billed this gives the customer opportunity to challenge the amount which when applicable can lead to the correction of estimates.
Given the relatively short time period between the end of the financial Where unread estimates are unbilled there are risks over accuracy, year and the audit, the majority of unbilled revenue as at 31 December recoverability and therefore correct recognition in the income statement remained unbilled and uncollected.
We therefore focused our and balance sheet.
substantive testing on the manual processes over revenue recognition, assessing the appropriateness of the estimation methodologies and Furthermore, migration issues arising from the implementation of a new the level of subsequent true-ups to actual bills raised.
We also tested billing system in British Gas Business in 2014 have resulted in the need for the reconciliation of unbilled reports to the general ledger at the year management to perform additional levels of review over revenue and debt end.
Where manual adjustments were made to the unbilled revenue we including judgements over the level of provisioning.
challenged the basis of the adjustments made, the source of the data Refer to pages 56 and 57 for details on the Audit Committee reviews and used and the consistency of the adjustments with prior years to confirm conclusions and notes 3 and 4 in the financial statements.
we were comfortable with the adjustments.
In assessing the methodology used to derive the unbilled revenue at the balance sheet date and testing the performance of historical billing and collections, we did not identify any material issues with the recognition of unbilled revenue.
With regard to the implementation of the new billing system in British Gas Business we increased our scope of work in order to assess the impact of the migration of customers to the new system, specifically on revenue, debt and debt provisioning.
This included testing the revenue adjustments, recoverability of debt and additional procedures over the debt provision at year end.
Based on our work we did not identify any material misstatements with downstream revenue recognition.
We compared the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of Pensions the pension liability to our internally developed benchmarks.
We have The Group has a net defined benefit pension liability of 119 million, aninternally developed range of acceptable discount rates for valuing consisting of a 6,642 million asset, offset by a 6,761 million liability.
pension liabilities, which is based on our view of various economic The assumptions used in valuing the pension liability are both indicators.
While our range is, itself, subjective, the discount rate judgemental and sensitive to change.
For example, a 0.25% increase assumption lies in the middle of our range of expected assumptions decrease in the discount rate has a 6% impact on the scheme liabilities.
andis reasonable for accounting purposes.
As a result there is a risk that a small change in the judgements used will Based on the work performed, we did not identify any material issues have a significant impact on the valuation of the pension liability.
As such over the assumptions used in valuing the pension liability.
our area of focus was on the assumptions used in calculating the liability.
Refer to pages 56 and 57 for details on the Audit Committee reviews and conclusions and notes 3 and 22 in the financial statements.
We assessed managements liquidity analysis and downside Going concern sensitivities, including the scenario of borrowing restrictions continuing Under Article 94 of the Articles of Association Articles, the Groups after the Companys AGM.
borrowings are currently restricted to the higher of 5 billion and three times its adjusted capital and reserves.
Based on the work performed which included assessing managements analysis above and review of legal advice, including discussion with Whilst preparing the Annual Report, the Group became aware that, external legal advisors and having considered the possible actions predominantly due to the impairments noted above and the resulting available to management, we did not identify any material issues in reduction in capital and reserves, the Groups borrowing limit under the relation to the Companys and Groups assessment of going concern.
Articles would be restricted to 5 billion from the date of approval of thesefinancial statements.
There will therefore be a technical breach We also evaluated the disclosures provided in the Annual Report ofArticle94.
inrelation to going concern and we were satisfied that these areappropriate.
As a result of this, our focus was on the Directors evaluation of the Groups liquidity position and availability of cash reserves over the period of the going concern assessment, including the scenario of restrictions continuing after the Companys AGM.
Refer to pages 56 and 57 for details on the Audit Committee reviews and conclusions and notes 24 and S3 in the financial statements.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 84 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report continued Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality How we tailored the audit scope for the financial statements as a whole as follows: We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 78 million 2014: 101 million.
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic Overall Group structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, materiality andthe industry in which the Group operates.
5% of 3-year average pre-tax profit The Group is structured along three business lines being How we determined it adjusted for exceptional items and International Upstream, International Downstream and Centrica certain re-measurements.
Storage, each made up of different business units.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of these business lines The Group materiality benchmark Rationale for benchmark andcomprise the Groups operating businesses and centralised has been calculated as 5% of profit applied functions.
from continuing operations, adjusted to exclude the effect of Accordingly, based on size and risk characteristics, we performed volatility on underlying performance afull scope audit of the financial information for the following from disclosed exceptional items business units: British Gas Business, British Gas Residential, and certain re-measurements.
DirectEnergy, Centrica Energy Exploration & Production These items have impacted the and Centrica Energy Midstream.
Centrica income statement on a non-recurring basis and to a Where the work was performed by component auditors, we quantitatively material degree.
To determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the eliminate furthervolatility in trading auditwork at those business units to conclude whether sufficient performance, a 3-year average on appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our the same benchmark was used in opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Across the Group, the Group team involvement comprised of site For each business unit in our audit Component materiality visits, conference calls, review of component auditor work papers, scope, we allocated a materiality attendance at component audit clearance meetings and other that is less than our overall Group forms of communication as considered necessary.
The range of materiality theGroup team are also directly involved in the component audits allocated across business units was 10 million to 60 million.
Certain of British Gas and Centrica Energy.
In addition, senior members of business units were audited to a the Group audit team performed a number of site visits throughout local statutory audit materiality the year to Direct Energy in Houston and the Exploration & thatwas also less than our overall Production business in Norway.
Taken together, the business units where we performed our audit work accounted for 94% of Group revenues and 77% of Group We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them profit before tax.
We also performed specific audit procedures misstatements identified during our audit above 10 million 2014: onthe business units not included in the scope of the audit where 10 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in they contained material financial balances.
our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Materiality Going concern The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
statement, set out on page 62, in relation to going concern.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to Wehave nothing to report having performed our review.
determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, tothe Directors statement about whether they considered it both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not aguarantee as to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 85 OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors and Corporate Governance Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors and Corporate Governance Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors and Corporate Governance Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 62, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 We have no exceptions to report.
ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 56 and 57, as required by provision C. 3.8 We have no exceptions to report.
of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 62 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to add or to draw provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the attention to.
principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they We have nothing material to add or to draw are being managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 62 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to add or to draw provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the attention to.
Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 86 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report continued Adequacy of accounting records and information and What an audit of financial statements involves explanations received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable in our opinion: assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes we have not received all the information and explanations we an assessment of: require for our audit: or whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups adequate accounting records have not been kept by the and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been applied and adequately disclosed: received from branches not visited by us: or the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors bythe Directors: and Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming Directors remuneration ourownjudgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 financialstatements.
opinion We test and examine information, using sampling and other In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to auditingtechniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide beaudited has been properly prepared in accordance with the a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit Companies Act 2006. evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive Other Companies Act 2006 reporting procedures or a combination of both.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration inthe Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report audited financial statements and to identify any information that is arising from this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Corporate Governance Statement with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements theDirectors and Corporate Governance Report relating to ten or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
further provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having Withrespect to the Strategic Report and Directors and Corporate performed our review.
Governance Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required byapplicable legal requirements.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Charles Bowman Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Senior Statutory Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities for and on behalf of  LLP statementset out on page 62, the Directors are responsible for Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors thepreparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied London that they give a true and fair view.
18 February 2016 Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financialstatements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S STR TRA ATE TEG GIIC C R RE EP POR ORT T G GO OVE VER RNA NAN NC CE E F FI IN NAN ANC CI IAL AL S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S S SH HA AR RE EHOL HOLDE DER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA AT TIIO ON N 87 88 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial 92 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statements General information 92 1 S ummary of significant new accounting policies and reporting changes 93 2 Centrica specific accounting measures 94 3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Group Income Statement including Dividends 97 4 Segmental analysis 103 5 Costs of operations 104 6 S hare of results of joint ventures and associates 105 7 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 107 8 Net finance cost 108 9 Taxation 110 10 Earnings per ordinary share 111 11 Dividends Group Balance Sheet 112 12 Acquisitions and disposals 114 13 Property, plant and equipment 115 14 Interests in joint ventures and associates 116 15 Other intangible assets and goodwill 118 16 Deferred tax liabilities and assets 119 17 Trade and other receivables 120 18 Inventories 120 19 Derivative financial instruments 122 20 Trade and other payables 123 21 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 124 22 Post retirement benefits 128 23 Commitments and contingencies Capital structure and financing 131 24 Sources of finance 133 25 Share capital Post-balance sheet events 134 26 Events after the balance sheet date 135 Supplementary information 135 S1 General information 135 S2 Summary of significant accounting policies 145 S3 Financial risk management 151 S4 Other equity 152 S5 Hedge accounting 153 S6 Fair value of financial instruments 156 S7 Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts 157 S8 Related party transactions 157 S9 Auditors remuneration 158 S10 Related undertakings 169 COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 170 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET 171 N OTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 181 GAS AND LIQUIDS RESERVES UNAUDITED 182 FIVE YEAR SUMMARY UNAUDITED 183 OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT C Ce en nt tr riic ca p a pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5
