Independent Auditors report to the members of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Report on the financial statements Our audit approach Our opinion Overview In our opinion: Overall Group materiality: 720,000 which Circassia Pharmaceuticals plcs Group financial statements and represents 1% of total expenses.
parent company financial statements the financial statements We performed an audit of the complete Materiality give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the financial information of 4 components and parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the specified procedures of 2 components Groups loss and the Groups and the parent companys cash which accounted for 93% of the Groups flows for the year then ended: Audit scope expenses, 100% of the Groups revenue the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in and 91% of the Group loss before tax.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Of these, two were financially significant the parent company financial statements have been properly components.
The Group engagement Areas of focus prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European team conducted the audit of one of the Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the financially significant components and we Companies Act 2006: and visited our component team in Sweden the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with who performed the audit of the other the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the significant component.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Group engagement team also What we have audited conducted the audit of the complete The financial statements, included within the Annual report and financial information of two components accounts the Annual Report, comprise: that were not deemed to be financially the Consolidated statement of financial position as at significant.
31 December 2015 The Group engagement team and our the Parent company statement of financial position as at component team in the USA performed 31 December 2015: specified procedures on the financial the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for information of a further two components.
the year then ended: the Group and parent company statement of cash flows for The components where an audit was the year then ended: performed by the Group engagement the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then team accounted for 73%, 27% and ended: 78% of the work over Group expenses, the Parent company statement of changes in equity for the year Group revenue and Group loss before tax then ended: and respectively.
the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of Accounting for business combinations.
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information Impairment of goodwill and other The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the intangible assets.
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company Deferred tax assets may not be realisable.
financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of Measuring the fair value of awards under the Companies Act 2006. share options schemes and the related accounting treatment.
Accounting for share issue costs.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 79 Independent Auditors report to the members of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for business combinations We assessed managements accounting for the business The Group made two acquisitions in the year, Aerocrine AB combinations under IFRS 3 Business combinations IFRS 3.
Aerocrine and Prosonix Limited Prosonix.
On 19 June 2015, We obtained managements valuation models and used our firms 92.6% of Aerocrine was acquired for cash consideration of 129.6m.
valuation specialists in assessing the robustness and appropriateness By 31 December 2015 the Group owned 97.9% of Aerocrine.
of the valuation methodologies and the reasonableness of key On 15 June 2015, 100% of Prosonix was acquired for cash assumptions and judgements made by management.
consideration of 70m plus a further 30m in contingent We assessed the cash flow forecasts and key assumptions and consideration.
The contingent consideration became due on 23 judgements made by management with particular focus on the December 2015. following: long term growth rates, working capital assumptions, Our main area of focus and the area of most complexity and existing customer growth rates, tax rates and royalty rates.
We judgement was the identification and valuation of intangible assets.
worked with our valuation specialists to assess the reasonableness of managements assumptions by using our understanding of the Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, page 92, Critical businesses and performing the following: accounting estimates and judgements, and pages 116-117 in the notes.
We obtained and reviewed the underlying licence agreements to assess the royalty rates used and managements forecasted licence cash flows: We assessed the assumed revenue growth rates for existing products: We assessed the appropriateness of working capital assumptions by considering historical working capital trends and managements plans for future working capital: We ascertained the life of the patents and assessed whether the cash flow forecasts appropriately reflected patent expiries: We obtained an understanding of the assumed product development phases and timings and benchmarked this to industry standards: We obtained an understanding of expected market penetration and timelines and benchmarked this to industry standards: We agreed the tax rates used in the models to those enacted in the prospective markets: We benchmarked the discount rate to comparable companies.
Along with our valuation specialists, we determined that managements assumptions fell within a reasonable range.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 80 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets We obtained managements impairment analysis and gained an We focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill 81.2m and understanding of the key assumptions and judgements underlying other intangible assets 165.6m balances and because of the level the assessment.
of judgement in the impairment assessment, specifically the future We assessed managements allocation of Goodwill between CGUs results of the businesses and products and the discount rates applied and determined the allocation to be reasonable.
We assessed the key assumptions including those driving the cash The future results of the businesses are particularly judgemental given flows underpinning the analysis, including the following: that a large portion of forecast cash flows are dependent upon sales from products currently in the research and development phase.
Forecast accuracy: We compared historical forecasts to actual results achieved.
Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, page 92 Critical Future revenue streams: We compared forecast growth to accounting estimates and judgements, and pages 102-104 business plans and the latest developments.
Future product revenue streams: We compared forecast growth to business plans and obtained an understanding of the stage of product development and managements expected timeline, including updates on expected milestone achievement.
Expenses and overheads: We reviewed historical budget to actual results achieved and assessed the appropriateness of changes to these assumptions for forecast growth and management identified efficiency savings.
Discount rate: We recalculated managements discount rate and benchmarked the rate against companies of a similar nature.
We obtained and inspected managements impairment analysis including the sensitivity analysis, which showed sufficient headroom.
We performed our own sensitivities over the forecasted cash flows and discount rates, the results of which did not indicate an impairment to goodwill.
However, our sensitivities did indicate that if the phase III trials of Cat-Spire are not successful and or there are delays to other key product launches, these events may trigger an impairment to goodwill.
We found the assumptions to be supportable and in line with our expectations and the headroom to remain sufficient using assumptions sensitised to what we considered to be a range of realistically possible alternative outcomes.
Deferred tax assets may not be realisable We have obtained managements assessment to support the deferred Deferred tax assets of 17.2m 2014: nil were recognised in relation to tax asset recognised.
We have inspected managements cash flow accumulated losses.
Refer to our discussion above for procedures performed around the cash flow forecasts.
We worked with our tax specialists in All of the Groups businesses have brought forward tax losses assessing whether a deferred tax asset could be recognised under capable of offset against future profits.
Management must make IAS12 and the key judgements applied in determining the level of judgements in relation to the probability of future profits in determining deferred tax asset recognised.
the extent to which deferred tax assets are recognised.
The key points we considered in managements assessment were as Management have recognised deferred tax assets only to the extent follows: of deferred tax losses relating to the same taxation authority and the same taxable entity.
Whether the entities have sufficient taxable differences relating to the same taxation authority.
The Group has a history of losses and the cash flow forecasts The impact of any forfeiture or expiry of losses to be carried underpinning the recognition of the deferred tax assets are forward.
judgemental as they are largely dependent upon sales from products Whether taxable differences will result in taxable amounts currently in the research and development phase.
These elements against which the unused tax loses can be utilised.
create a level of uncertainty as to whether it is appropriate to The likelihood of sufficient profits being recorded.
recognise the deferred tax asset under IAS12 and if so, at what level the asset should be recognised.
On the basis of our knowledge of the historical losses of the entities in the Group and of the tax flow projections, we evaluated Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, page 92, Critical managements judgements in relation to the probability of utilising accounting estimates and judgements, and page 110 in the notes.
We concurred with managements judgement that deferred tax assets should be recognised only to the extent of deferred tax liabilities arising in the same jurisdiction.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 81 Independent Auditors report to the members of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc continued Measuring the fair value of awards under share options We obtained the paperwork supporting the grant award and scheme schemes and the related accounting treatment details and discussed with management the accounting applied and The Group has in place a number of share incentive schemes which key judgements made.
are accounted for in accordance with Share based payments We considered the reasonableness of the judgements made by IFRS 2, and the details of which are explained in note 24.
All share management in determining the relevant assumptions utilised in incentive schemes require a level of judgement.
However, the incentive calculating the fair value of the options.
schemes that include market vesting performance conditions are more complex, requiring various judgements to be made, including We tested managements fair value calculation and support for key the likelihood of specific performance criteria being achieved, all of assumptions.
The share options issued included market vesting which directly impact the fair value of the options.
Accordingly, management have applied the Monte Carlo method in valuing the options granted.
As a result there is a risk that the share option compensation charge could be measured incorrectly.
Our approach was underpinned by the following testing: Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, page 93 Critical Assumed volatility was compared to the historical share price accounting estimates and judgements, and pages 110-112 in the volatility of the Group since listing and also benchmarked against notes.
other companies in similar industries.
We considered the dividend rate against the Groups dividend history and in the light of managements assessment that no dividends will be declared in the foreseeable future.
The exercise price was agreed to the Group share option award agreements and the board meeting minutes approving the transaction.
The interest rate was compared to the UK Gilt rate at the date of issue for a comparable period.
The share price at grant date was compared to the listed share price on the day of grant.
The leaver rate was agreed to historical actuals, adjusted for an expected increase as the business expands.
In light of the above, we found that the method of calculating the fair value of share options has been applied consistently and with supportable assumptions.
The charge booked was not materially sensitive to what we considered to be a range of realistically possible alternative outcomes as to the levels of performance attained.
We obtained a detailed listing and selected a sample of invoices.
For Accounting for share issue costs these capitalised expenses, we tested managements assessment of The Group incurred 8.8m of costs in completing a Placing and whether legal and professional fees incurred were directly attributable Open Offer in June 2015 to finance the acquisitions of Aerocrine and to the share issue.
We assessed the capitalised costs for completeness by reviewing a Incremental costs that are directly attributable to the equity sample of legal and professional invoices expensed.
transaction are accounted for through equity.
There is an element of judgement in determining what costs are directly attributable to the Having tested the appropriateness of the split in expenditure, we then equity issue.
traced the amounts into the financial statements and tested they were appropriately included and disclosed.
Refer to page 47 Audit Committee Report, page 92 Critical accounting estimates and judgements, and page 110 in the notes.
As a result, we found no material exceptions with managements allocation of the costs to equity and found that the appropriate accounting treatment and disclosures had been applied.
How we tailored the audit scope In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors from whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, other PwC network firms under our instruction.
Where the work the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of Group operates.
involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting components to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate As described in note 3, the Group is structured into three segments: audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Allergy, NIOX and Respiratory.
The Group financial statements are a Group financial statements as a whole.
The reporting components are located in Sweden 1, USA 2, Switzerland 1, Germany 1 For each reporting component we determined whether we required and the UK 5. an audit of their complete financial information, specified procedures over select financial information or an analytical review based on both quantitative and qualitative factors.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 82 An audit of the complete financial information of Circassia Limited As part of our year end procedures, the Group engagement leader and Aerocrine Sweden was performed because they each make up visited our Swedish component team the only significant component greater than 15% of total Group expense.
Full scope audits for 2 further not audited directly by the Group engagement team, reviewed their UK reporting components were undertaken where a statutory audit working papers and met with local management.
In addition to this, is required.
Specified procedures over select financial information the Group engagement team attended all clearance meetings either in was performed for 2 further reporting components and analytical person or by call.
This, together with the procedures performed at the procedures were performed over the remaining reporting components.
Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Taken together, the components where we performed our audit work procedures excluding analytical procedures provided us with Materiality coverage of 93% of expenses, 100% of revenues and 91% of loss The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
The components where an audit was performed by the We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together Group engagement team accounted for 73%, 27% and 78% of the with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of work over Group expenses, Group revenue and Group loss before tax our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures respectively.
on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the As part of the Group engagement team procedures, we were involved financial statements as a whole.
in determining the audit approach of our component teams, reviewing the procedures performed and in addressing any issues arising from Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for our work.
the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 720,000 2014: 463,000.
How we determined it 1% of total expenses.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have determined the most appropriate measure on which to base materiality to be total expenses as the majority of the Groups products are in the research and development stage and the spend to progress these to commercialisation is expected to continue to be significant over the coming years.
As a result, we regard that investors will remain interested in the progression of product development and the level of expenditure more so than the loss generated by the Group.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
For each component in our audit scope, we allocate a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 140,000 and 700,000.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded misstatements identified during our audit above 36,000 2014: that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 23,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
the Group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least Going concern one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going statement, set out on page 77, in relation to going concern.
We have concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or nothing to report having performed our review.
conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have to the Groups and parent companys ability to continue as a anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the going concern.
directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 83 Independent Auditors report to the members of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc continued Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement as set out on pages 40 to 45 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 78, in accordance We have no exceptions to report.
with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 46, as required by provision We have no exceptions to report.
C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 44 of the Annual Report, in We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 37 of the Annual Report, in We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 84 Adequacy of accounting records and information and What an audit of financial statements involves explanations received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable in our opinion: assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an we have not received all the information and explanations assessment of: we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been and the parent companys circumstances and have been received from branches not visited by us: or consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the parent company financial statements and the part of the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in the directors: and agreement with the accounting records and returns.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, Directors remuneration and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a Companies Act 2006. reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or Other Companies Act 2006 reporting a combination of both.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the this responsibility.
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Corporate governance statement with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Simon Ormiston Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of London the Code.
11 March 2016 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibility set out on page 78, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 85
