STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cineworld Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit the level of sensitivity of the provision to changes in the 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified inputassumptions.
We have audited the financial statements of Cineworld Group plc Cineworld or Group for the 52 week period ended Carrying value of property, plant and equipment 31December 2015 set out on pages 84 to 135.
In our opinion: 345.4m Refer to page 49 Audit committee report, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the page 91 accounting policy and pages 103 to 104 state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs financialdisclosures.
as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the The risk: The carrying value of property, plant and 52week period then ended: equipment balances at an individual cinema level may not the group financial statements have been properly be recoverable through future cash flows as local factors, prepared in accordance with International Financial such as increased competition, can materially affect site Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: performance.
The key sensitivities in the calculation are the parent company financial statements have been the assumptions used in calculating the discount rate and properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting the difficulties in accurately predicting the performance of Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure sites operated by the Group.
As explained in the Onerous Framework: and lease provision risk above, there is inherent uncertainty the financial statements have been prepared in accordance involved in forecasting revenues.
Given this uncertainty and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, the number of sites across the Group, this is deemed to be as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the oneof the Groups key judgement areas.
Our response: Our principal audit procedures included 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement challenging the cinema cash flow forecasts by comparing In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial them against historical performance trends, together statements the risks of material misstatement that had with assessing the basis for and impact of both expected thegreatest effect on our audit were as follows: changes in market conditions and the future plans of the business.
We considered the underlying assumptions within Onerous lease provisions 5.6m the forecasts, including comparing revenue growth and Refer to page 49 Audit committee report, page 95 discount rates against our internal and external benchmark accounting policy and page 120 financial disclosures.
We assessed managements sensitivity analysis and The risk: The Group provides for an onerous lease when it the resulting headroom on the value-in-use estimates considers that the unavoidable cost of the lease obligation across all cinemas and considered the appropriateness from operating a cinema is in excess of the expected ofthe associated disclosures.
economic benefits, but where continuing to operate the cinema is rational because it contributes towards mitigating Recognition of Virtual Print Fee VPF income 11.1m the impact of that unavoidable cost.
There is a risk that the Refer to page 49 Audit committee report, page 95 provision may be misstated if inappropriate estimates and accounting policy.
assumptions are applied in the valuation model.
The risk: VPF income is recognised on an accruals basis, dependent on the number and type of screenings made The onerous lease provision is revisited annually using a using digital display equipment.
The terms of the VPF valuation model to determine whether any further provision contract in the UK that determine when revenue can be or release is required.
Estimating future operating cash recognised include requirements regarding the number, flows at a cinema level requires consideration of current type, timing and overlap of screenings: as such the and expected market conditions both nationally and locally.
calculation of the accrual is complex.
This complexity is The value of the provision is particularly sensitive to the enhanced by the large volume of screening data and the assumptions used in relation to the discount rate and to limitations of the Groups information systems, which require forecast revenues.
The latter is mainly because: the Group manual intervention to fully reflect the contract terms.
has no direct control over the films released for distribution: there is limited visibility over the release schedule more Further, a third party is involved in agreeing the level of than 12 months into the future: and there can be variation income due to the Group.
The need for clarification on in performance of the films over the diverse geographic interpretation, data mismatches and processing delays footprint of the Group.
have historically led to differences between the third party and the Groups income calculations.
This results in a six Our response: Our principal audit procedures included month gap between the income being recognised and challenging the operating cash flow forecast of each the balances being fully reconciled with the third party cinema for which a provision has been made by considering supplier.
This delay means the size of the year end accrual the forecast cash flows against historical cash flow trends issignificant.
and assessing the basis for and impact of both expected changes in market conditions and the future plans of the There is an added complexity in this year as the maximum business.
We also considered the appropriateness and eligible amount that can be earned under the contract has accuracy of the valuation model, including assessing the almost been reached.
This requires the Group to agree the key assumptions driving revenue growth and the discount final amount due by demonstrating both the total amount rate against our internal and external benchmark data: eligible to be reclaimed per screen under the terms of the and considered likely sensitivities and their quantum by agreement and the amount previously reclaimed.
There is adjusting the input assumptions.
We further considered a risk that the amount recognised may differ from the final the adequacy of the Groups disclosure around the degree third party calculation.
VPF income is therefore deemed to of estimation involved in arriving at the provision and remain one of the Groups key judgement areas.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 81 GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Cineworld Group plc only Our response: Our principal audit procedures included: The Group operates in nine countries across the UK and testing the Groups controls over the VPF data collection Ireland, Central and Eastern Europe and Israel, each of and recognition process: assessing, in comparison to which is considered to be a reporting component.
We information received from the third party supplier, the performed audits for group reporting purposes on five of accuracy and detail of the Groups screening information: these components, resulting in coverage of 88% of total and considering the accuracy of the prior period Group revenue: 81% of Group profit before taxation: and accrued income by reference to receipts during the 93% of Group total assets.
For the remaining components, year.
We considered the appropriateness of the level of we performed analytical procedures at a group level to income recognised by reference to the terms of the VPF re-examine our assessment that there was no significant agreementand by calculating the expected income.
riskof material misstatement within these.
In relation to the finalisation of the contract, we inspected The work was performed by component auditors across supporting documentation, including correspondence fourcomponents in Poland: Israel: Hungary and Romania, with the third party supplier and the terms of the original andby the Group audit team for the UK.
contract, to compare the amounts under discussion with the total revenue expected to be recognised over the life The Group team instructed the KPMG component auditors as of the contract.
As final agreement over the total amount to the significant areas to be covered including the relevant due under the contract has not yet been reached, we also risks detailed above and set out the information required to considered the adequacy of the disclosure over the degree be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit of estimation involved in determining the income accrued team approved component materiality, which was set at pending final agreement and the period remaining revenue 2.6m 2014: 1.8m for all components, having regard to the under the contract is expected to be recognised.
mix of size and risk profile of the businesses within the Group.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the The Group audit team visited two component locations in scope of our audit Hungary and Romania to assess the audit risk and strategy The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole and gain an understanding of the local finance environment.
This has been determined Meetings were held between the auditors of components and with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before the Group audit team throughout the audit.
At the planning taxation of which it represents 3.5% 2014: 4% of Group stage these meetings focussed on the audit approach, while profitbeforetaxation.
during the fieldwork and reporting stage they focused on the findings and observations reported to the Group audit team.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and All findings were discussed in more detail, and any further uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 175,000 work deemed necessary by the Group audit team was then 2014: 135,000, in addition to other identified misstatements performed by the component auditor.
that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Scoping and Coverage Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: Group Revenue % the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to beaudited has been properly prepared in accordance withtheCompanies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and Group audited 60% Component audited 28% theDirectors Report for the financial year for which Out of scope 12% the financial statements are prepared is consistent withthefinancial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages with respect to internal controland risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital Group profit Before Taxation % structures isconsistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of Group audited 69% principalrisks Component audited 12% Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we Out of scope 19% have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors statement of long term viability on page 40, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations Group Total Assets % of the groups continuing in operation over the three years to 31 December 2018: or the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis Group audited 73% ofaccounting.
Component audited 20% Out of scope 7% | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 82 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE 6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters Scope and responsibilities onwhich we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you Statement set out on page 80, the directors are responsible if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we for the preparation of the financial statements and for being have identified other information in the annual report that satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to In particular, we are required to report to you if: important explanations and disclaimers regarding our we have identified material inconsistencies between the responsibilities, published on our website at www.
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into statement that they consider that the annual report and this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work understandable and provides the information necessary wehaveundertaken and the basis of our opinions.
for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or Mark Summerfield the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately Senior Statutory Auditor address matters communicated by us to the for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor AuditCommittee.
Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report London toyou if, in our opinion: E14 5GL adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 10 March 2016 parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not inagreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified bylaw are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our auditor a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statements, set out on page 40, in relation togoing concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 35 to 53 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for the Period Ended 31 December 2015 52 week 53 week periodended periodended 31December 1 January 2015 2015 Note m m Revenue 2 705.8 619.4 Cost of sales 504.3 438.9 Gross profit 201.5 180.5 Other operating income 3 8.7 2.0 Administrative expenses 107.1 106.5 Operating profit 4 103.1 76.0 Analysed between: Operating profit before depreciation and amortisation, onerous leases and other nonrecurring charges, impairments and reversals of impairments, transaction and reorganisation costs, profit on disposals of assets 155.3 126.6 Depreciation and amortisation 4 49.4 46.6 Onerous leases and other nonrecurring charges 4 1.7 1.9 Impairments and reversals of impairments 4 9.0 1.0 Transaction and reorganisation costs 4 1.9 6.9 Profits on disposals of assets classified as held for sale 6.4 Finance income 7 8.7 6.6 Finance expenses 7 12.1 15.2 Net finance costs 3.4 8.6 Share of loss of jointly controlled entities using equity accounting method, net of tax 0.1 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 99.7 67.3 Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 8 18.4 12.8 Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company 81.3 54.5 Basic earnings per share pence 5 30.7 22.1 Diluted earnings per share pence 5 30.4 21.9 The Notes on pages 89 to 135 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 84
