Governance Governance I Independent auditors report to ndependent auditors report to t the members of Clarkson PLC he members of Clarkson PLC Report on the consolidated financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Clarkson PLCs consolidated financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the annual report, comprise: the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain share-based payment and directors remuneration disclosures which are required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements in notes 21 and 28 respectively and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall group materiality: 2.5m which represents 5% of profit before taxation, adjusted for exceptional items and acquisition costs.
Materiality Audit scope We performed audit work over the complete financial information for reporting units which accounted for approximately 91% 2014: 81% of the groups revenue and 93% 2014: 92% of the groups profit before taxation adjusted for exceptional items and acquisition costs.
These reporting units comprised certain operating businesses and centralised functions.
Audit scope Conducted specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions in respect of a number of other reporting units.
Areas of focus Acquisition accounting for RS Platou ASA: Areas of focus Recoverability of trade receivables: Revenue recognition: and Classification and recognition of the adjusting items exceptional items and acquisition costs.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
62 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 62 Clarkson plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Acquisition accounting for RS Platou ASA Platou Refer to page 58 audit committee report, note 12 of the financial We assessed the completeness and quantum of intangible assets identified statements and note 2.3 for the directors disclosures of the related by management against our own expectations, formed from review of the accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further information.
due diligence reports prepared by managements professional advisors during the acquisition, and disclosures surrounding the rationale for the The group acquired RS Platou ASA on 2 February 2015 for consideration transactions.
We determined that the analysis prepared by management of 249.9m.
Accounting for the acquisition required a fair value exercise from these reports appropriately reflects the fair value exercise based on to assess the assets and liabilities acquired, including valuing any separately our understanding of Platous particular circumstances and our knowledge identifiable intangible assets and goodwill.
The valuation of intangibles can and experience of the industry.
We assessed the work performed on the purchase price allocation by Fair value adjustments managements external expert, utilising our in-house expertise to evaluate Management engaged an external expert to support them with quantifying the purchase price allocation.
In doing so we evaluated the professional fair values of identified intangibles.
Management identified 21.9m of competence and objectivity of that expert and performed the following: intangible assets in respect of Platous forward order book, customer in relation to the forward order book, we compared assumptions made relationships and brand.
on attrition and recoverability with historical patterns in the business to The fair value of these intangible assets was judgemental as it required verify that assumptions were reasonable: management assumptions including on customer attrition rates, we challenged management on the completeness of customer recoverability of the forward order book and growth rates for existing relationships and whether these existed in other areas of the business customer revenues.
The determination of the discount rate applied to not included in the determined fair value: and the fair value models was also judgemental as it required the calculation we sensitised the discount rate and other key inputs and assumptions of a risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital.
to ascertain the extent of change that would be required for the fair value Carrying value at 31 December 2015 to be materially misstated.
Given the quantum of goodwill and intangible asset additions in the year From our procedures, we concluded that the identified intangibles were 254.5m and the current economic backdrop as described by the complete and the arising values were within a materially reasonable range.
directors in the business review section of this annual report and in the In forming this conclusion, we considered the level of resulting goodwill as 3 November 2015 market trading update, we also focused on the a proportion of the total consideration paid and benchmarked this against goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessment at the year-end, similar transactions in the market.
We discussed the results of this analysis including the related disclosures made by management.
No impairment with management and managements expert and ensured appropriate charge has been recorded by management against these balances at disclosure was included within the annual report which describe the nature 31 December 2015. of the arising goodwill.
Based on the work performed in this area, we have determined that the relevant intangible assets and goodwill had been identified and valued appropriately.
In addition, we verified that the basis for allocating the Platou-acquired goodwill and intangibles to both functional currency and CGUs is reasonable and consistent with internal management reporting and, where relevant, the purchase price allocation exercise described above.
We found the allocation exercise was carried out satisfactorily.
At the year-end, we evaluated the directors future cash flow projections for all CGUs and the process by which they were drawn up, including testing the underlying calculations.
Based on the work performed in this area we have determined that managements impairment assessment has been carried out appropriately and that the disclosure made in note 12 appropriately highlights the current market risk.
com 63 Governance Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Clarkson PLC continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recoverability of trade receivables Refer to page 58 audit committee report, note 14 of the financial We tested aged balances where no provision was recognised to check that statements and note 2.3 for the directors disclosures of the related there were no indicators of impairment.
This included verifying if payments accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further information.
had been received since the year-end, reviewing historical payment patterns and any correspondence with customers on expected settlement dates.
At the year-end the group had trade receivables of 62.1m before provisions for impairment of 12.3m.
As set out in the business review We selected a sample of the larger trade receivable balances where section of the strategic report, the shipping industry has faced a a provision for impairment of trade receivables was recognised and challenging year and the global shipping market continues to be impacted understood the rationale behind managements judgement.
In order to by certain macro-economic factors such as oil prices and certain freight evaluate the appropriateness of these judgements we verified whether rates.
Accordingly, the group experienced uncertainty over the collectability balances were overdue, the customers historical payment patterns and of trade receivables from specific customers.
whether any post year-end payments had been received up to the date of completing our audit procedures.
The determination as to whether a trade receivable is collectable involves management judgement.
Specific factors management considers include We also obtained corroborative evidence including correspondence the age of the balance, location of customers, existence of disputes, supporting any disputes between the parties involved, attempts by recent historical payment patterns and any other available information management to recover the amounts outstanding and on the credit concerning the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
status of significant counterparties where available.
Management uses this information to determine whether a provision By performing the procedures mentioned above we also considered for impairment is required either for a specific transaction or for a managements rationale where provisions were recognised on transactions customers balance overall.
We focused on this area because it requires that were not overdue as at the balance sheet date and verified these were a high level of management judgement and due to the materiality of the appropriately supported.
In assessing the appropriateness of the overall amounts involved.
provision for impairment we considered the consistency of managements application of policy for recognising provisions with the prior year and in the context of the current macro-economic challenges.
Specifically we considered: i how much of prior years provisions had been utilised for bad debt write offs during the year: and ii prior year provision amounts released where a customer had paid.
Releases of the provision during the year as disclosed in note 14, included some infrequent payments of overdue amounts from customers where a provision continues to be recognised for new invoices raised.
Despite these payments, management continues to provide for such customers on the basis there still remains ongoing uncertainty over their underlying financial condition as indicated by the ad hoc timing of payments beyond dates due.
From the work we have performed we consider the level of provisioning to be consistent with the evidence obtained.
Revenue recognition For the sale and purchase, offshore and securities transactions near the Refer to page 58 audit committee report, notes 3 and 4 of the financial year-end, we tested that revenue cut-off was appropriately determined.
statements and note 2.3 for the directors disclosures of the related We selected a sample of transactions and agreed the details of these accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further information.
transactions to underlying contractual information or other supporting The groups entitlement to commission revenue in the broking and documents which demonstrated the timing of when obligations had been financial segments is dependent upon the fulfilment of certain obligations, fulfilled by the parties to the transaction.
for example stage completion of a vessel build in broking or formal From the evidence obtained, we found no material instances of revenue approval of a debt or equity transaction in securities between two or being recognised in the incorrect period.
more third parties over which the group has no control.
Consideration is therefore required as to whether the parties obligations have been fulfilled and the commission revenue can be recognised.
Some of these transactions, such as within the sale and purchase, offshore or corporate finance revenue streams, are individually significant in value.
Consistent with the prior year, we therefore focused on these areas, particularly around the year-end, where there is a risk that large transactions may be recorded in the incorrect period.
The other revenue streams, such as support and research, involve limited judgement and are comparatively less significant.
Revenue in respect of these streams is recognised when the service is completed or when the products are despatched, as explained further in note 2 of the financial statements.
There is therefore less risk of a material cut-off error in these streams.
64 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 64 Clarkson plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Classification and recognition of adjusting items exceptional items and acquisition costs Refer to page 58 audit committee report, note 2.1 basis of preparation We assessed the nature of these exceptional items to confirm they are of the financial statements and note 2.3 for the directors disclosures non-recurring in nature and recognised and presented in accordance of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates for with the groups disclosed accounting policy.
With respect to the inclusion of the dilapidation provision release as an The group excludes adjusting items exceptional and acquisition costs exceptional item, we considered FRC guidance on the presentation and consistency of reporting exceptional items, which requires a consistent from its underlying earnings measure.
The directors believe that treatment for income statement items from one year to the next.
As the alternative or additional performance measures can provide the users provision was established through underlying earnings, it could be argued of the financial statements with a better understanding of the groups that this treatment as exceptional appeared inconsistent.
Managements underlying financial performance and strategy, if properly used.
If improperly view was that, whilst the charge was historically in underlying earnings, used and presented these measures could mislead the users of the this was spread across 10 years but the release in one year which is more financial statements by obscuring the real profitability and financial position material to understanding the 2015 performance.
Separating the items of the group.
provides users with clearer visibility.
We accepted this view as the FRC Management judgement is required as to what items qualify for this guidance has been considered and there is clear disclosure of the item classification.
There can also be judgement as to the point at which in the annual report.
costs should be recognised and the amount to record.
In relation to overlapping rent we examined lease agreements, confirmed Included in adjusting items were: office vacation dates and verified the accuracy of managements Exceptional items: 2.3m in respect of the groups head office move computation of the amount of overlapping rent.
inclusive of 1.9m overlapping rent, reorganisation costs of 1.2m and We tested directly attributable transaction and subsequent restructuring a 1.3m dilapidation provision release in respect of St. Magnus House.
costs to supporting invoices, payroll records and agreements with advisors Exceptional items are explained further in note 5. to verify these related to the Platou acquisition and were incurred during the year.
Acquisition costs: 9.2m in respect of amortisation of intangibles acquired as part of the Platou and other prior acquisitions, 1.1m finance costs in In respect of other adjusting items we verified that managements respect of loan notes issued in respect of the Platou acquisition, 2.8m computations of the costs were accurate by agreeing to corroborating cash and share-based payment charges linked to acquisition-related documentation and, where applicable, re-performing managements calculations.
We have also assessed the extent to which underlying employee service and 3.1m transaction costs.
Acquisition costs are financial information is given prominence in the annual report, whether explained further in note 6. it is clearly, accurately and consistently applied and whether the underlying We focused on the accuracy of charges included in adjusting items, which financial information is not otherwise misleading in the form and context are presented consistent with prior periods.
in which it appears in the annual report.
From the evidence obtained, we found no material exceptions to the presentation of adjusting items as adopted by management, in line with the disclosed accounting policy.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
The financial statements are a consolidated number of reporting units, comprising the groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, or by component auditors of other PwC network firms and other firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
We identified 7 reporting units, 3 of which were significant due to their size.
These comprised certain operating business and centralised functions which required an audit of their complete financial information.
We also conducted specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions in respect of a number of other reporting units.
This gave us coverage of 93% of the groups profit before taxation adjusted for exceptional items and acquisition costs and 91% of revenue, and, together with the additional procedures performed at the group level, including testing the consolidation process, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 2.5m 2014: 1.7m.
How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation, adjusted for exceptional items and acquisition costs.
Rationale for benchmark applied In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to profit before taxation, adjusted for exceptional items and acquisition costs, because, in our view, this represents the most appropriate measure of underlying performance.
com 65 Governance Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Clarkson PLC continued Materiality continued We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 125,000 2014: 170,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors report, set out on page 60, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors report about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors report, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 40 to 42 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the annual report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the explanation given by the directors on page 61, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions Governance Code the Code, as to why the annual report does not include a statement that they consider the to report.
annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions the section of the annual report on page 58, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the to report.
audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 32 of the annual report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that We have nothing material to they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten add or to draw attention to.
its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 32 of the annual report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how We have nothing material to they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that add or to draw attention to.
period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and the directors report in relation to the longer-term viability of the group, set out on page 32.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in 66 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 66 Clarkson plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 61, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Clarkson PLC for the year ended 31 December 2015 and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
John Waters Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 4 March 2016 67 www.
