Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cobham plc Report on the Group Financial Statements Our opinion The scope of our audit and our areas of focus In our opinion, Cobham plcs Group Financial Statements the financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on statements : Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended: We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, wealso addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including What we have audited evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
the Annual Report, comprise: The Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, ofComprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2015: including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015: focus in the following table.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial The Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: and statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our The Notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the EuropeanUnion.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality: Overall Group materiality: 14m which represents 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Audit scope: We conducted audit work in five countries covering 31 reporting units: We performed full scope audits of 17 reporting units in the UK, Australia, France and Denmark: Our work conducted in the US was executed at 12 reporting units where wecompleted audit procedures on specific line items such as revenue orinventory, and 2 further reporting units where we performed other limitedprocedures.
Areas of focus: Revenue and profit recognition on contracts: Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment assessments: Inventory provisioning: Identification and measurement of non-underlying costs: Accounting for uncertain tax provisions: and Accounting for acquisitions and disposals.
com 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue and profit recognition on contracts Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report and page 83 note 1, Accounting We tested the recognition of revenue transactions close to the period end policies, management judgement and estimation uncertainty contract risk toestablish whether they were recorded in the correct period.
This included and programme execution.
agreement to external shipping evidence or authorised milestone documentation, with customer acceptance where appropriate.
Misstatements identified were For revenue from the sale of goods, we focused on cut-off around the year end discussed with management and corrected within the financial statements.
because material revenue transactions can occur close to that date.
Additional cut-off testing was performed in the businesses where misstatements were identified to check that the correction adjustments were correct.
We are The Group also has a number of significant contracts which span more than satisfied that the adjustments made were materially correct.
In particular, we focused on complex development andproduction contracts on aerial refuelling aircraft including KC-46, KC-390, We assessed, through reviews of significant contracts, the basis of profit recognition A400Mand 330MRTT.
The nature of much of the contracting work done by on the Groups significant contracts, together with whether it is appropriate to theGroup means that there are reasonably frequent contractual issues, variations account for them as separate or linked contracts.
We evaluated the accounting in and renegotiations that arise in the ordinary course of business, whose resolution the context of the Group accounting policies and contract terms.
We found the is uncertain.
accounting, in all material respects, to be in accordance with the policies and contract terms.
Costs incurred can significantly exceed amounts estimated at inception as a resultof material enhancements to the specifications originally assumed under We challenged the reasonableness of the assumptions behind estimated costs thecontracts.
For the contracts detailed above, we focused on: tocomplete by considering managements track record of achieving estimates, meeting with engineering staff regarding project estimates, confirming the basis The recognition of significant revenue milestones which often involve ofoverhead rates used and obtaining purchase orders for materials.
We found judgement surrounding the achievement of those milestones: theassumptions to be supported by the evidence we examined.
The amount of revenue assumed as recoverable from customer claims whichare subject to commercial negotiation: We agreed total contracted revenue to either original signed customer contracts, Whether contracts with the same customer should be accounted for as approved change orders or to evidence of customer discussions and agreements.
separate or linked: We evaluated the reasonableness of estimated revenue through a review of, and Whether the profit recognised on revenue in the year is appropriate: and discussion on, customer claims submitted to recover additional costs incurred, Whether associated assets held on the balance sheet work in progress including considering correspondence with the customer and legal advice received andaccrued income are recoverable or whether a contract loss provision where appropriate.
Customer claims reflect changes in project scope for which we should be recorded.
rely on the achievement of historic management estimates.
We assessed the contract loss provisions recorded through a combination of the procedures above in respect of the overall margin anticipated on the contract andvalidating that fixed overheads had been appropriately excluded.
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment assessments Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 83 note 1, Accounting We assessed managements impairment testing relating to all of the 18 CGUs policies, management judgement and estimation uncertainty impairment byobtaining the supporting model and assessing the methodology and key ofgoodwill, pages 94 and 95 note 10, Intangible assets and page 112 assumptions made: note 27, Business combinations prior year restatement.
Future cash flow forecasts: we evaluated the Directors future cash flow The Group has goodwill of 1,147m and intangibles of 582m on its Balance forecasts and tested the underlying values used in the calculations by Sheet.
There is the risk that these balances cannot be supported by the future cash comparing the Directors forecast to the latest Board approved five year flows of the CGUs.
Management conducts an annual impairment test of goodwill strategic plan: balances and intangibles are reviewed whenever there is an indicator that an asset Discount rates: we have an internally developed range of acceptable discount may be impaired.
rates for valuing CGUs, which is based on our view of various economic indicators.
We are satisfied that the discount rates used by the Directors During 2015, the goodwill relating to two out of the total of 18 CGUs was fully fallwithin this range for all territories with the exception of Europe, where impaired as follows: theDirectors have adopted a more conservative rate.
This did not result in amaterial misstatement: The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Telerob was impaired by 27m Long term growth rates: we compared the rates applied by management to following a year of poor trading performance: our own internally developed published rates.
Following the decision by management to sell the business the goodwill relating to the Surveillance business was also fully written down, resulting We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions for all 18 CGUs in inan impairment charge of 45m.
order to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions required individually or collectively to result in a further impairment of goodwill or intangible assets.
Forthose business units which were most sensitive, we discussed the basis for thesecash flows with senior management and the Audit Committee.
In particular we have focused on the recoverability of the goodwill and intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition of the Aeroflex business in the prior year, which generated goodwill and intangible assets of 947m and the SATCOM business unit which has experienced trading headwinds in the year, which had a goodwill balance at the year end of 222m.
We challenged management over the sensitivity disclosures presented in the financial statements to ensure all reasonably possible changes to assumptions that could lead to a material impairment had been appropriately considered and where necessary disclosed.
We are satisfied that the disclosures made and the overall impairment testing performed by management are appropriate.
com Cobham plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cobham plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Inventory provisioning Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 83 note 1, Accounting We assessed the process, methods and assumptions used to develop the policies, management judgement and estimation uncertainty inventory provision for slow moving, excess or obsolete items.
This included comparing provisions and page 97 note 13, Inventories.
managements calculations for consistency against those used in the prior year and considering whether there was any indication of management bias such The nature of much of the Groups business means that the products developed asmanual overrides to the established methodology.
Manual overrides are can become technically obsolete.
It is also necessary to hold additional spare parts typically in respect of spares held for the servicing of products on aircraft in order to support key customers and programmes should the products require whichhave a long service life.
Where overrides were material, we considered replacement or servicing.
The Group had gross inventory of 459m and provisions theappropriateness of managements judgement based on historical usage for obsolescence of 49m on its Balance Sheet.
We focused on this area because inventory provisions include subjective estimates For reporting units included within full scope we tested the reliability of the and are influenced by assumptions concerning future realisable value and usage.
underlying data used by management to calculate the inventory obsolescence provisions, typically an aged inventory analysis showing last movements, by In addition, the methods used for this estimate vary between reporting units re-performing the ageing calculation driven by the system.
We also tested the depending on the nature of the business and inventory.
accuracy of the resultant calculation by assessing the calculation criteria and recalculating the provision for a sample of products.
No material misstatements were identified.
Identification and measurement of non-underlying costs Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 83 note 1, Accounting We tested the presentation of the business restructuring costs as non-underlying policies, management judgement and estimation uncertainty definitions by assessing whether the classification was in line with the Groups accounting andpage 88 note 2, Underlying measures.
policy on such items on page 88 of the financial statements.
This included testing a sample of the costs incurred to supporting evidence such as external purchase The financial statements include business restructuring costs of 68m which invoices, redundancy agreements and personnel costs for staff dedicated to these aredisclosed as non-underlying and are excluded from underlying operating restructuring projects.
We also assessed the appropriateness of this policy and no profit.
Wefocused on this area because IFRSs do not define which items may material issues were identified.
beexcludedfrom underlying operating profit and it therefore requires judgement around the justification for such exclusion.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items to be excluded from underlying operating profit is important to maintain comparability of the results year on year.
In 2015 these business restructuring costsrelate primarily to the integration of the Aeroflex business acquired in 2014.
Accounting for uncertain tax provisions Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 83 note 1, Accounting We discussed with management the known uncertain tax positions and read policies, management judgement and estimation uncertainty taxation.
correspondence from tax authorities and external legal counsel on open tax enquiries.
The Group has a wide geographic footprint and is subject to tax laws in a number ofjurisdictions.
The Group has a number of open tax enquiries and has recognised We assessed the adequacy of the Directors taxation provisions by considering anumber of centrally held provisions against uncertain tax positions, the valuation factors such as the risk profile of each matter and whether the provision addresses of which is a highly judgemental area.
Where tax positions are not settled with the possible penalties and interest.
We met with senior management and challenged tax authorities, the Directors take into account precedent and the advice of the judgements made in relation to the likelihood of litigation from tax authorities externalexperts.
by comparing managements assessment against our own independent views which are based on our independent perception of risk.
We found that the judgements made by management were within our expected ranges.
Accounting for acquisitions and disposals Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 100, 112 and 113 notes We have assessed the final fair value adjustments made to the opening 16 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale, 27 Business Aeroflexbalance sheet and have understood the rationale for managements combinations prior year restatement, and 28 Business divestments.
calculations of the adjustments to provisions.
We have obtained the supporting documentation for the additional provisions recognised and have not identified The acquisition accounting of the Aeroflex business in the prior year required any material misstatements.
We reviewed the presentation of the prior year anumber of judgements surrounding the fair value adjustments to net assets restatement with no material misstatements identified.
This year, the final adjustments have been recorded by management resulting in a reduction in net assets acquired of 46m with an equal increase in We have reviewed the sale and purchase agreements relating to the divestments, goodwill.
In accordance with IAS 8, the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014 and have agreed the cash consideration received to bank statements.
We aspreviously reported has been restated.
challenged management on their decision to carve out the goodwill and intangibles based on underlying profits and not total assets and concur with this The Group has undertaken a number of divestments during the year which has assumption on the basis that the initial valuation of the business was based on resulted in a 31m net profit after tax.
As some disposals formed part of the expected future cash flows.
recently acquired Aeroflex business the key focus of our work has been assessing managements judgement in the carve-out of goodwill and intangibles from within Specifically relating to the divestment of the Surveillance businesses in 2016, the CGU.
wehave confirmed that assets have been correctly written down to their fair value and have been correctly classified as held for sale in the financial statements.
As a consequence of the decision made in the year to divest the Surveillance We have reviewed the sale and purchase agreement relating to this divestment businesses, the assets and liabilities relating to these business units have been and have not identified any usual terms.
classified as held for sale at the balance sheet date.
We are satisfied that the accounting for divestments, both completed and inprogress at the year end date have been appropriately accounted for and disclosed in the financial statements.
com 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS How we tailored the audit scope Rationale for benchmark Underlying profit before taxation is defined in We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work applied the Annual Report on page 84.
We believe that to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into underlying profit before taxation represents an account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and appropriate metric for assessing the performance controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
of the Group and provides us with a consistent yearon year basis for determining materiality.
It The Group is structured along four reported Sectors, being Advanced Electronic is the amount reported by management both Solutions, Aviation Services, Communications and Connectivity, and Mission internally and externally to the market.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of 67 reporting considered our overall Group materiality in the units within these Sectors, comprising the Groups operating businesses and context of the Groups revenue, noting that it centralised functions.
Accordingly, of the Groups 67 reporting units, we identified represents less than 0.7%.
17 which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size, their risk characteristics or because some are covered on a We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements rotational basis over a two or three year cycle.
Specific audit procedures on identified during our audit above 0.5m 2014: 0.5m as well as misstatements certain balances and transactions typically including at least revenue and below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
inventory were performed at a further 12 reporting units.
Audit procedures were performed at all principal manufacturing locations, all significant Aviation Services Going concern reporting units and at the four largest components of the Aeroflex acquisition in Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set the year.
out on page 31, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
79% of the Groups revenue is accounted for by reporting units where we performed full scope audit work or performed specific audit procedures over Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything revenue.
43% of the Groups underlying profit before taxation is accounted material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement for by the 17 reporting units where we performed full scope audit work on the about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis complete financial information.
In the US, as a result of our assessment of their in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw size and risk characteristics, we determined that 12 US entities did not require an attention to.
audit of their complete financial information, but rather, audit procedures were required only on significant financial statement line items within the income As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it statement and balance sheet.
At a further 28 reporting units, we performed is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial analytical procedures on each to understand key balances and transactions statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate in the year and performed additional procedures on any unusual balances resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for identified.
In addition we have performed a review of significant journals posted at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part within the sector consolidations.
All of these audit procedures, together with of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern additional procedures performed at Group level, including a review of significant basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can adjustments made to the financial statements, gave us the evidence we needed be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the Other required reporting type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Consistency of other information Group engagement team, or subsidiary audit teams from other PwC network Companies Act 2006 opinions firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors subsidiary audit teams, we determined the level of involvement we needed to Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether consistent with the financial statements.
sufficient appropriate evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
This included attending the audit close ISAs UK and Ireland reporting meetingsat which the outcome of each subsidiary audit was discussed and Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: visiting a number of larger subsidiary audit teams during their fieldwork Information in the Annual Report is: We have no including the two key reporting units with the aerial refuelling development materially inconsistent with the information exceptions andproduction contracts.
intheaudited financial statements: or to report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or Where subsidiary audit teams performed work at the reporting unit level on materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of behalf of the Group team, this work was performed to lower materiality levels theGroup acquired in the course of performing appropriate to the individual units.
These materiality levels ranged from 0.7m ouraudit: or to 5m.
Materiality The statement given by the Directors on page 45, in We have no The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate exceptions certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative Governance Code the Code, that they consider the to report.
considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement andunderstandable and provides the information line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both necessary for members to assess the Groups position individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial Groupacquired in the course of performing our audit.
statements as a whole as follows: We have no The section of the Annual Report on page 52, as exceptions required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing Overall Group materiality 14m 2014: 13m.
thework of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before tax.
com Cobham plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cobham plc continued The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of Responsibilities for the financial statements theprincipal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity and the audit ofthe Group Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibility, the Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors confirmation on page 34 of the Annual We have nothing Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, material to add or to Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in that they have carried out a robust assessment of the draw attention to.
accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require principal risks facing the Group, including those that us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards forAuditors.
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe We have nothing Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of those risks and explain how they are being managed material to add or to the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these ormitigated.
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save The Directors explanation on page 34 of the Annual We have nothing where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, material to add or to as to how they have assessed the prospects of the draw attention to.
What an audit of financial statements involves Group, over what period they have done so and why An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the they consider that period to be appropriate, and their financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statement as to whether they have a reasonable statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or expectation that the Group will be able to continue in error.
This includes an assessment of: operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups the period of their assessment, including any related circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: disclosures drawing attention to any necessary The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the qualifications or assumptions.
Directors: and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement The overall presentation of the financial statements.
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer term viability of We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting disclosures in the financial statements.
their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw have nothing to report having performed our review.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial forour audit.
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our Other matter opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Statements of notmade.
Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Pauline Campbell Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 2 March 2016 Cobham plc www.
com 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
