PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cobham plc Report on the Parent Company Financial Statements Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our opinion Our responsibilities and those of the Directors In our opinion, Cobham plcs Parent Company Financial Statements the parent As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the company financial statements : Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and Give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as forbeing satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
at 31 December 2015: Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statementsin Accepted Accounting Practice: and accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the What we have audited ParentCompanys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these The Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015: opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other The Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save The Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements, which where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
includeasummary of significant accounting policies and other .
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
includes an assessment of: Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys Other required reporting circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Consistency of other information The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Companies Act 2006 opinion Directors: and In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors The overall presentation of the financial statements.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the ISAs UK and Ireland reporting disclosures in the financial statements.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, Report is: to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of statements: or controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, ourknowledge of the parent company acquired in the course of performing In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the our audit: or Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Otherwise misleading.
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Other matter Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of Cobham plc in our opinion: for the year ended 31 December 2015.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for ouraudit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, orreturns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Pauline Campbell to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London Directors remuneration 2 March 2016 Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited hasbeen properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are notmade.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
com Cobham plc 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
