INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COMPUTACENTER PLC ONLY OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 1 Our opinion on the Financial Statements is unmodified We have audited the Financial Statements of Computacenter plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 90 to 139.
In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement When planning our audit we made an assessment of the relative significance of the key risks of material misstatement to the Group Financial Statements initially without taking account of the effectiveness of controls implemented by the Group.
As part of our audit planning procedures, we presented and discussed our initial assessment of key risks to the Audit Committee.
This is shown in our risk map below and identified six key risks of material misstatement that were expected to have the greatest effect on our audit.
Throughout our audit we continually reassess the significance of each of these key risks.
It was determined that the performance of the French business had improved sufficiently such that the risk of material impairment of accounts receivable or non-current assets, was no longer one of those having the greatest effect on our audit.
Furthermore, following actual experience of executing the French Social Plan, it was considered that the risk that this provision was materially misstated was reduced such that this was also no longer one of those having the greatest effect on our audit.
We summarise below i the three key risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit in decreasing order of audit significance, ii our key audit procedures to address those risks and iii our findings from those procedures in order that the Companys members as a body may understand better the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
Our findings are the result of procedures undertaken in the context of and solely for the purpose of our statutory audit opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not express discrete opinions on separate elements of the Financial Statements.
Professional Services and Managed France - impairment of Services contract non-current assets accounting France - impairment Supply Chain revenue and bad debts recognition and cut o France - impairment of non-current assets Presentation of exceptional and Fra nce S ocial Plan adjusted items quality France - impairment of earnings and bad debts France Social Plan Lower Likelihood of occurrence Higher Signi cant risk Initially assessed as signi cant risk Downgraded risk from subsequently downgraded at year end preliminary rating 86 Lower Magnitude of potential impact Higher FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Professional Services and Managed Services contract revenue 990.5 million Refer to page 66 Audit Committee report, page 96 accounting policy and page 103 financial disclosures.
The risk For a limited number of Managed and Professional Services contracts revenue is based on the contract price allocated to the stage of completion, by reference to the proportion of costs to date to forecast full costs.
Due to the complex nature of the managed services which include both transition and transformation projects, there are risks that the costs of fulfilling the remaining service obligations could escalate.
This uncertainty makes revenue recognition subjective.
Furthermore, where cost forecasts are insufficiently certain, accounting standards limit the revenue: and where forecast costs exceed the balance of the contract price, provision for loss is required.
Our response Our procedures included detailed reviews of contracts selected based upon risk indicators such as contract complexity, margin changes compared to the prior period, loss-making contracts and their relative magnitude of revenue or contribution recognised in the year.
For these contracts we inspected the detailed terms to identify the service obligations.
We considered contract progress by inspecting customer sign off on acceptance of the deliverables and costs of that progress in comparison to the Groups original forecasts.
This informed our view of contract risks.
We then reviewed the future cost forecasts by reference to the Groups forecasting record.
This was completed through retrospective review of the accuracy of forecast revenue, costs and thus contribution for a sample of completed projects in the year.
Future forecast costs including the risks and judgements within these forecasts were corroborated by obtaining evidence to support selected inputs.
We also considered whether the stage of completion and degree of risk in each selected contracts was such that the revenue ought to be limited in accordance with accounting standards.
We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosure about estimation uncertainty regarding Managed and Professional Services revenue.
Our findings We found the resulting estimates of revenue to be mildly cautious, including after allowing for two audit differences that were each significantly below our materiality and which also offset each other to give no net effect on profit before tax.
We found the Groups disclosures to be proportionate in their description of the estimation uncertainty regarding Managed and Professional Services revenue.
Supply Chain revenue recognition and cut off 2.1 billion Refer to page 66 Audit Committee report, page 101 accounting policy and page 103 financial disclosures.
The risk Supply Chain revenue includes revenues from many different product groups each sold with varying terms and conditions that impact the point in time at which all delivery obligations, and therefore the transfer of the risks and reward of ownership, have been fulfilled transferred, and hence revenue is recognised.
Whilst there is little judgement required to identify the appropriate accounting policy for any individual contract, the number and variety of contracts give rise to some risk that an inappropriate policy is selected.
A larger risk arises from the fact that a significant proportion of this revenue stream is delivered and recognised in the final month of the year, leading to significant scope for error in the application of the relevant principle.
Our response We tested the controls that are designed to ensure that each Supply Chain revenue transaction is recognised in accordance with the Group accounting policies.
A sample of transactions from before and after the year end were assessed for the application of the appropriate policy and agreed to supporting documentation, such as proof of delivery or signed buy and store agreements, in order to assess whether the policy had been correctly applied to recognise revenue in the current period or not as the case may be.
We also tested a sample of credit notes raised subsequent to the year end and obtained the corresponding sales invoice and proof of delivery to assess whether Supply Chain revenue was recognised in the correct period.
Our findings Our testing identified weaknesses in the design and operation of SAP user access controls.
As a result we changed our procedures in order to test IT Application Controls in respect of the Supply Chain revenue process throughout the year.
Our testing did not identify weaknesses in the operation of these controls that would have required us to expand the extent of our planned substantive audit procedures.
In our tests of selection and application of polices to contracts, we found no errors.
PRESENTATION OF UNDERLYING PROFIT AND CLASSIFICATION OF EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 41.1 MILLION Refer to page 67 Audit Committee report, page 96 accounting policy and page 108 financial disclosures.
The risk The Groups measure of underlying profit, in the income statement and throughout the Annual Report, is stated before: 1 1.5 million charge of redundancy and other restructuring costs 2014: 9.1 million charge : 2 0.4 million credit in respect of the improvement in contract margins on onerous contracts 2014: 1.5 million credit : and 3 42.2 million gain on disposal of RDC 2014: nil.
The Directors believe that the separate identification of exceptional items and the resultant presentation of alternative income statement measures can assist shareholders to obtain a more detailed and hence better understanding of the Groups performance.
However, when improperly used and presented, these kinds of measures might prevent the Annual Report from being fair, balanced and understandable by focusing on only part of the performance.
The determination of whether an item should be separately disclosed as an exceptional item or other adjustments requires judgement on its nature and incidence, as well as whether it provides clarity on the Groups underlying trading performance.
Our response Our procedures included evaluating appropriateness of the Groups principles for identifying material or unusual items, by considering them against accounting standards for the separate identification of material items and the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on the reporting of exceptional items.
We then assessed the application of these principles by assessing whether the approach taken to identify exceptional items was consistent between gains and losses: assessing whether the same category of material items are treated consistently each year: assessing whether the tax effects of exceptional items are explained: by agreeing amounts incurred in the year to underlying documentation and supporting information: and by using our knowledge of the Groups transactions gained throughout the audit to consider the completeness of exceptional items.
87 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COMPUTACENTER PLC ONLY CONTINUED We assessed the presentation of the underlying measure, in particular whether the separate disclosure and related commentary of underlying profit throughout the Annual Report and Accounts placed disproportionate emphasis on that component of performance: whether the Adopted IFRS and underlying financial information are reconciled with sufficient prominence given to that reconciliation: whether the basis of the underlying financial information is clearly and accurately described: and whether the underlying financial information is not otherwise misleading.
Our findings We found that the Groups policies for exceptional items were balanced.
We found that judgements of amounts falling within the policy were balanced.
We found the presentation to be proportionate.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was set at 4.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, normalised to exclude exceptional items defined on page 108 as presented separately in the Income Statement, of 41.1 million, of which it represents 4.7%.
Our work on those separate items is described above.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.1 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups fifteen reporting components, we subjected three to audits for Group reporting purposes which are situated in the UK, France and Germany.
For the remaining components we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results.
Revenue Total assets PBT Underlying PBT Analysis at aggregated Analysis at aggregated Analysis at aggregated Analysis at aggregated Group level 3.18% Group level 2.74% Group level 2.40% Group level 1.82% Audits for Group reporting Audits for Group reporting Audits for Group reporting Audits for Group reporting purposes 96.82% purposes 97.26% purposes 97.60% purposes 98.18% The Group operates a Shared Service Centre SSC in Budapest, Hungary, the outputs of which are included in the financial information of the three reporting components and therefore it is not a separate reporting component.
Audit procedures were performed at the SSC which focus on the testing of trade receivables and trade payables transaction processing.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 2.0 million to 3.0 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on two of the three components was performed by component auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited the two overseas component locations in France and Germany in addition to the SSC in Hungary, including to assess the audit risk and strategy.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors viability statement on pages 59 and 60, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the next three years: or the disclosure on page 67 of the Financial Statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Financial Statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report on page 66 does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on pages 59, 60 and 65, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 58 to 59 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities statement set out on page 85, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of Financial Statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014b, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Tudor Aw Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 11 March 2016 89
