Consolidated financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COMPASS GROUP PLC ONLY Our response: Our audit procedures included testing of the OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT historical accuracy of the Groups budgeting and forecasting 1 OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED process upon which the UK discounted cash flow model is based.
We have audited the financial statements of Compass Group We tested the principles that underpin the calculations in the PLC for the year ended 30 September 2015 which comprise the model and the integrity of the data.
We evaluated the assumptions consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of and methodologies used for the UK discounted cash flow model, comprehensive income, the consolidated and Parent Company in particular those relating to forecast revenue growth and working balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the capital movements, including assessing the reasonableness of the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the accounting forecast revenue growth against historical growth rates.
We policies and the related notes.
In our opinion: compared the assumptions within the UK discounted cash flow model to externally derived data as well as our own assessments the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state in relation to key inputs such as projected economic growth.
Our of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at valuation specialists assisted in evaluating the assumptions and 30 September 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year methodologies underlying the discount rates adopted by the then ended: Group.
We considered the sensitivity of key inputs to reasonably the Group financial statements have been properly prepared possible changes in assumptions.
We also assessed the adequacy in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards of the Groups disclosures in respect of goodwill by reference to as adopted by the European Union: relevant accounting standards.
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and TAXATION the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Refer to page 48 Governance and Directors Report, page 91 the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards accounting policy and page 136 financial disclosures.
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The risk: The Group has extensive international operations and in 2 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT the normal course of business the directors make judgements and In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the estimates in relation to direct and indirect tax issues and risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our exposures.
As a result of the complexities of transfer pricing and audit were as follows: other tax legislation, the accounting for tax exposures is a key audit judgement.
VALUATION OF GOODWILL Our response: Our audit procedures included evaluating the Refer to page 48 Governance and Directors Report, page 91 controls the Group has in place to identify and quantify its accounting policy and page 105 financial disclosures.
We used our tax specialists to analyse and The risk: The Groups balance sheet includes goodwill of 1,433 challenge the assumptions used to determine provisions using million relating to the UK business the carrying value of which our knowledge and experience of the application of international has historically been sensitive to changes in the key assumptions, and local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts, and in particular to changes in forecast sales growth rates, operating assessed whether the approach applied by the Group is supported profit margins and discount rates.
The headroom in the UK by custom and practice in the industry.
We have examined the currently is such that the directors do not consider there to be any calculations prepared by the directors and agreed assumptions reasonably possible sensitivities that would result in a write down used to underlying data, and considered the judgements applied being required, however, this itself is a matter of judgement and including the maximum potential exposure and the likelihood of a the carrying value of this asset therefore continues to be an area payment being required.
We have inspected correspondence with of audit focus.
relevant tax authorities to identify tax risk areas and assessed third party tax advice received to evaluate the conclusions drawn in the advice.
In addition, transfer pricing documentation was critically assessed as part of our consideration of the tax positions taken by the Group.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
80 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 The components within the scope of our work accounted for the SUPPLIER REBATES AND DISCOUNTS Refer to page 48 Governance and Directors Report and page 91 following percentages of the Groups results: accounting policy.
GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX GROUP REVENUE The risk: The Group has a variety of agreements with suppliers % % whereby rebates and discounts are earned based on the quantity 3 2 of goods bought.
The majority of the rebates and discounts due 2 3 to the Group are reflected in the net price charged by its suppliers or are based on fixed percentages linked to the quantity of goods bought.
There is little estimation or judgement involved in determining the timing and amount to be recognised.
However, due to the large number of agreements in place across numerous jurisdictions within the Group, the complexity of transaction processing as well as supplier rebate periods frequently not being 1 1 coterminous with the year end date, we consider there is a risk of error.
A UDITS FOR GROUP Our response: We evaluated the controls that the Group has in REPORTING PURPOSES......................... 95% REPORTING PURPOSES......................... 96% place over the accounting for rebates and discounts.
S PECIFIED RISK-FOCUSED AUDIT PROCEDURES................................ 4% AUDIT PROCEDURES................................ 3% procedures included inspecting underlying contractual terms and 3.
GROUP-LEVEL PROCEDURES ONLY......... 1% 3.
GROUP-LEVEL PROCEDURES ONLY......... 1% supplier correspondence for a selection of arrangements in place.
We performed detailed testing on a sample basis of the largest rebates and discounts recognised in the period, with particular attention to whether the rebates and discounts were recognised GROUP TOTAL ASSETS in the correct period and the appropriateness of any rebates % and discounts accrued at the period end.
This involved selecting 2 3 a sample of amounts invoiced and accrued as at the balance sheet date and agreeing the underlying calculation to contractual terms and supplier correspondence.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of supplier rebates and discounts.
3 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE 1 SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 62.7 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of 1.
A UDITS FOR GROUP Group profit before tax of 1.2 billion, of which it represents 5%.
S PECIFIED RISK-FOCUSED We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected AUDIT PROCEDURES................................ 4% identified misstatements exceeding 3.1 million, in addition to 3.
GROUP-LEVEL PROCEDURES ONLY......... 1% other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 52 reporting components, we subjected 44 to audits for Group reporting purposes and one to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter was not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 81 Consolidated financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COMPASS GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed in our opinion: above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent team determined the component materialities, which ranged from Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 0.06 million to 49.2 million, having regard to the mix of size and received from branches not visited by us: or risk profile of the Group across the components.
Aside from the the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the audit of the Parent Company and the non-trading head office entities Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in that was performed by the Group audit team, the work on all of the agreement with the accounting records and returns: or components was performed by component auditors.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law The Group audit team visited 18 component locations, to assess are not made: or the audit risk and strategy.
Video and telephone conference we have not received all the information and explanations we meetings were also held with these component auditors and the require for our audit.
majority of the others that were not physically visited.
At these visits Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were the directors statements, set out on page 30, in relation to going discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the concern and longer term viability: and Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 44 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions 4 OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 IS UNMODIFIED of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for In our opinion: our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and SCOPE OF REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Report for the financial year for which the financial statements statement set out on page 79, the directors are responsible for the are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an 5 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE DISCLOSURES OF audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting PRINCIPAL RISKS Councils website at www.
This Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk the directors statement of viability on page 30, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of directors assessment and expectations of the Group continuing in operation over the three years to 2018: or the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
6 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF THE MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that ANTHONY SYKES contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge Senior Statutory Auditor or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants In particular, we are required to report to you if: 15 Canada Square, London E14 5GL we have identified material inconsistencies between the 24 November 2015 knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
82 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015
