Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Countrywide plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Countrywide plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31December 2015: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated cash flow statement forthe year then ended: the Consolidated statement of changes inequity for the year then ended: and the Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
Theseare cross-referenced fromthe financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted bythe European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 3.1 million 2014: 4.0 million which represents 5% of the Groups profit before tax and exceptional items.
Materiality The Group operates in four operating segments as set out in the Annual Report refer topages 88 to89.
Each of the operating segments is broken down into a number of reporting units which are consolidated intothe Group financial statements along with central reporting entities.
Reporting units from the four operating segments were included in the scope of our work and the Group audit team performed an audit of the financial information at each of these locations.
In some of the operating segments we audited complete financial information of all the Audit scope reporting units andin others we focused on the larger reporting units to give us appropriate coverage.
We performed audit work over the complete financial information of reporting units which accounted for approximately 96% 2014: 97% of the Groups revenues and 89% 2014: 93% of the Groups profit before tax.
Included in the coverage above, the central reporting entities and group functions, together with the parent company, were subject to a full scope audit.
Areas of focus The areas of focus are: Judgements and estimates in relation to professional indemnity provisions: Impairment assessment of goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets: Accounting for acquisitions, particularly the identification of intangible assets relating to the businesses acquired: and Classification of exceptional items.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Inparticular, welooked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified asareas of focus in the table opposite.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
72 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Report on the Group financialstatements continued Our audit approach continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Judgements and estimates in relation  provisions Refer to page 50 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee, page 87 Critical Claims received accounting estimates and judgements, and pages 105 to 106 notes.
We checked that the amounts in the Bordereaux report were appropriately reflected in the books and records, and tested the mathematical accuracy Professional indemnity PI provisions principally relate to the Surveyors of the report and the input data.
andLambert Smith Hampton businesses within the Business to Business operating segment.
With respect to the input data, we agreed a sample of claims received and provisions made to the advice from lawyers and correspondence with claimants.
In common with other valuers, the Group is subject to significant claims in relation to incorrect mortgage valuation reports primarily carried out between Open large legal claims were discussed with Group Legal, and appropriate 2004 and 2007.
The Group holds professional indemnity insurance for documentation considered to understand the legal position and the basis of such matters, but management uses judgement to estimate the net costs material risk positions.
For large claims, we also compared a sample of historical that will be incurred by the Group.
All the claims received are listed and provisions to the actual amounts settled, determining that managements analysed through the Bordereaux report and the provisions held are based estimation techniques were satisfactory.
on experience of settling past claims, discussions with the Groups insurers Management holds a provision above that suggested in the Bordereaux report to and advice from legal counsel.
reflect the latest observed trends in claims received and settled, the number of The provisions are for both claims already received and claims yet to be claims with losses, and the average loss on each claim.
The second category requires significant management judgement Claims yet to be received given the need to estimate the incidence and amount of future claims.
For claims not yet received but incurred, we evaluated the model and approach We focused on this area because the determination of the size of the used by the management by testing the mathematical accuracy of the underlying provisions held and the likely settlements arising are inherently judgemental.
calculations and satisfied ourselves that the input data used reflected the latest observed trend of claims of losses and average loss incurred.
From the evidence obtained, we consider the level of provisioning at the balance sheet date to be reasonable.
Impairment assessment of goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets Refer to page 50 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee, page 87 Critical CGUs and allocation of goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets accounting estimates and judgements, and pages 95 to 98 notes.
We considered whether appropriate CGUs have been identified and we agree with managements conclusion that the new CGUs represent the smallest identifiable We focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill balance 471.6 million group of assets that generate independent cash flows and reflect the level at across the Group and the value of the other intangible assets, principally which key decisions are undertaken in managing the business.
brand names 183.2 million which are assumed to have indefinite useful economic lives.
We examined the basis used to reallocate the goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets to the new CGUs and determined that judgements were Following the reorganisation of the Groups structure, the Cash Generating appropriate and supported.
Units CGUs to which goodwill was previously allocated has been altered and certain goodwill balances have been reallocated between CGUs.
Impairment assessment of goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets Wenote that goodwill allocation requires some judgement.
We assessed managements impairment methodology under both the existing and the re-organised Group structure, as required under IAS 36 Impairment Management concluded that there is significant headroom between the of Assets.
We evaluated managements cash flow forecasts, and the process recoverable value of the CGUs and their carrying value.
However, in by which they were drawn up, comparing them to the latest Board approved relation to brand names, management has impaired 6.1 million of the budget for consistency and testing the underlying calculations successfully.
carrying value to reflect the cessation in the use ofcertain brand names following a strategy review and reorganisation ofthe business.
We also challenged the directors key assumptions for discount rates and growth rates by comparing them to historical results and industry comparators.
We found This is an area of focus for us because the assessment of the recoverable that discount rates are in line with industry comparators that we considered.
value of the CGUs and brand names involves judgements about the future results of the business and the appropriate discount rates to apply to the We performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts.
Our tests included applying: a 5% decrease in EBITDA on current growth forecasts: WACC rate increased by 20%: and no growth during FY2016 and beyond.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement arising and concluded that managements approach was reasonable and supported by the available evidence.
In addition, with respect to brand names, having reviewed the discounted cash flows prepared, we agree with the impairment charge recognised of 6.1 million relating to the brand names abandoned as part of the reorganisation of the Group.
On an overall basis, we agree with managements view that currently appropriate headroom exists and no further impairment is required.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 73 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Countrywide plc continued Report on the Group financialstatements continued Our audit approach continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for acquisitions, particularly the identification of intangible assets relating to the businesses acquired Refer to page 50 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee, page 87 Net assets excluding intangibles and consideration Critical accounting estimates and judgements and page 114 notes.
We obtained all material acquisition agreements and read them to ensure that we understood the substance of the transaction, including the consideration During the year the Group continued to make a number of acquisitions and the assets and liabilities acquired.
with a total consideration of 76.3 million, some of which is deferred and contingent on the future performance of the acquired entity.
As a result of We agreed the net assets acquired, which consisted mainly of working capital, by these acquisitions, the following intangible assets were recognised: agreeing them to completion statements or other similar supporting documentation and confirmed that they had been treated in line with the terms of the contract.
customer contracts and relationships 15.3 million : We tested cash consideration to bank statements and checked that any deferred brands 4.4 million : consideration had been correctly recognised in line with the acquisition agreements, with no issues being identified.
pipeline in the estate agency business 0.5 million : and We verified that the contingent employment-linked consideration is appropriately goodwill 53.1 million.
calculated based on the forecast profit levels and charged to the Income statement Accounting for business combinations can be complex, particularly in in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
relation to the identification of intangible assets and, accounting for Recognition of Intangibles deferred contingent consideration.
We challenged management on the recognition of brand names, customer The accounting treatment of intangible assets, including their ongoing relationships and contracts and were able to corroborate these to customer lists impact on the income statement, varies depending on whether they are and the Groups continued use of the related brand names post-acquisition.
seen as having finite or indefinite useful economic lives, and the estimated On a sample basis, we tested the accuracy and completeness of models used life applied to those with finite lives.
for calculating the separately identified intangible assets by comparing them to We focused on the judgements management made in these respects, models used on previous acquisitions within the Group and our experience of particularly in relation to the identification of intangible assets and any other valuation models.
estimated deferred consideration where linked to the continued employment We also tested the accuracy of the calculation of goodwill arising on the of the vendors and, in certain cases, contingent upon future profitability.
business combinations and noted no issues.
The recognition of intangible assets is judgemental, but we are satisfied that the assumptions and models used by management are reasonable and consistent with prior years.
We are satisfied that the treatment of consideration is in line with IFRS 3 and concur with the management assumption that budgeted profit targets will be met on those acquisitions with deferred contingent consideration.
Classification of exceptional items Refer to page 50 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee, page 87 Critical We assessed the rationale behind managements classification and the accounting estimates and judgements and page 92 and 93 notes.
appropriateness of the transactions recognised as exceptional items using ourknowledge of the business, inquiries of management, examination of The Group recognised net exceptional items of 13.6 million comprising documents supporting the strategic change and related reorganisation, thefollowing: andthrough consideration of expenses that are typically connected with restructuring activities.
Strategy and restructuring costs 14.3 million : We also assessed the completeness and balance of exceptional items through Acquisition costs of 1.0 million and regulatory settlement costs identifying other large or unusual items in underlying profit, considering potential of0.8million: and disclosure where significant.
We agreed a sample of expenses to calculations and invoices, and verified Separately identifying and disclosing items as exceptional on the face of payments made to bank statements to conclude on the consistency and theincome statement requires judgement as such presentation could be accuracy of classification.
In light of the strategic changes and restructuring during the year, we are satisfied We focused on this judgement, the potential for management bias, that the classification, judgements and disclosures made by management are as well as the consistency and accuracy of the amounts disclosed appropriate and in line with the Group accounting policy on exceptional items.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry inwhich the Group operates.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by ourapplication of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
74 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Report on the Group financialstatements continued Our audit approach continued Materiality continued Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 3.1 million 2014: 4.0 million.
How we determined it 5% of the Groups profit before tax and exceptional items.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group, and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
We have excluded the effect of exceptional items to eliminate their disproportionate effect and provide a consistent year-on-year basis for our work.
We do not exclude the adjusted measures of share-based payment charges, amortisation and employment linked contingent consideration expenses on the basis that these items recur annually.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.2 million 2014:0.2 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 69, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Wehave nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate governance statement set out on pages 44 to 45 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or We have no exceptions apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge to report.
of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 70, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced We have no exceptions and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and to report.
performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 50 to 51, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated to report.
by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 21 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, We have nothing material to that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that add or to draw attention to.
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing material to ormitigated.
add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 20 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, asto how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they We have nothing material to consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation add or to draw attention to.
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 75 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Countrywide plc continued Other required reporting continued Consistency of other information continued ISAs UK & Ireland reporting continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified bylaw are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Countrywide plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 andonthe information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Christopher Burns Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 25 February 2016 76 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015
