Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Countrywide plc Adequacy of accounting records and information Report on the parent company financial statements andexplanations received Our opinion Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, In our opinion, Countrywide plcs parent company financial in our opinion: statements thefinancial statements : we have not received all the information and explanations we give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs require for our audit: or as at 31 December 2015: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and from branches not visited by us: or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration of the Companies Act 2006.
Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting What we have audited records and returns.
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: and Directors remuneration the Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to beaudited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Companies Act 2006.
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are Other Companies Act 2006 reporting identified as audited.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report of the financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom arising from this responsibility.
Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors Other required reporting As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set Consistency of other information out on page 70, the directors are responsible for the preparation of Companies Act 2006 opinion the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and and fair view.
theDirectors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other statements: or purpose.
Wedo not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom with, our knowledge of the parent company acquired in the course this report isshown or into whose hands it may come save where of performing our audit: or expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 121 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Countrywide plc continued Responsibilities for the financial statements Other matter and the audit continued We have reported separately on the group financial statements What an audit of financial statements involves ofCountrywide plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Christopher Burns Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors  and have been consistently London applied and adequately disclosed: 25 February 2016 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made bythe directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information inthe Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements orinconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
