Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Daejan Holdings PLC Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Daejan Holdings PLC for the year ended 31 March 2015 set out on pages 39 to 70.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Valuation of investment properties 1,855.2 million Refer to page 11 Strategic report, page 30 Accounting and significant areas of judgement, page 47 Significant accounting policies and page 52 Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The risk Valuation of investment properties is considered a significant audit risk due to the materiality of the carrying amount 94% of total assets and the subjective nature of property valuations which depend on the individual nature of each property, its location and expected future net rental values, market yields and comparable market transactions.
Our response Our audit procedures included meeting with the Groups external valuers to challenge the assumptions and methodologies used in valuing the investment properties and the market evidence used by the external valuers to support these assumptions.
We used our own chartered surveyor to assist us in evaluating the assumptions, methodologies, competency, and independence of the external valuers.
In addition, for a sample of properties we assessed whether the valuations were performed in accordance with RICS Valuation Professional Standards or their US equivalent.
We challenged the external valuers assumptions by comparing yields on a sample of properties to benchmark indices and evaluated the extent to which the movements in valuations were consistent with our industry knowledge and comparable market transactions.
In addition we compared key inputs used in the valuation model, such as rental income, occupancy and current tenancy contracts, to the Groups property management system and lease contracts.
We also critically assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures including the accuracy of the fair value measurement categorisation and adequacy of the disclosure of the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs.
Page 35 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Daejan Holdings PLC continued Current tax liability 35.7 million Refer to page 30 Accounting and significant areas of judgement, page 47 Significant accounting policies and page 51 Notes to the consolidated financial statements The risk Accruals for tax contingencies require the directors to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures.
This is one of the key audit risks due to the time taken for tax matters to be agreed with the tax authorities and complexity of tax legislation.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included the use of our own local tax specialists to assist us in assessing the Groups tax positions and its correspondence with the relevant tax authorities and analysing and challenging the assumptions used to determine tax provisions based on our knowledge and experiences of the application of local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
We have also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions by reference to relevant accounting standards.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 16.6 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets, of which it represents 0.8%.
In addition, we applied materiality of 5.3 million which is 2.9% of the average profit before tax for the last three years to rental income, administrative expenses and financial expenses, for which we believe misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could reasonably be expected to influence the companys members assessment of the financial performance of the Group.
We report to the board any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 800,000 and 265,000 for rental income, administrative expenses and financial expenses, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We subjected all of the Groups 74 reporting components to audits for group reporting purposes of which 25 were audited by component auditors.
These audits covered 100% of each of total Group revenue, Group profit before taxation and total Group assets.
The segment disclosures in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements set out the individual significance of a specific country.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 1,300 to 14.8 million with certain accounts captions being limited to materiality of 5.3 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The Group audit team visited the components audited by component auditors in the UK and the US, including to assess the audit risk and strategy.
At these visits, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Page 36 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Corporate Governance Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Board.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 32, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 29 to 32 relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Page 37 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Daejan Holdings PLC continued Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 33 and 34, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Bill Holland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 23 July 2015 Page 38
