INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Debenhams plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 29 August 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report & Accounts the annual report, comprise: The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 29 August 2015: The Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: The Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 5.6 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Debenhams plc consists two operating segments UK and International.
Within these two operating segments there are eight reporting units excluding dormant entities, Materiality of which five are considered to be significant to the Group.
We performed full scope audits on the five significant reporting units Debenhams Retail plc, Debenhams Properties Limited, Debenhams Retail Ireland Limited, Debenhams plc and Aktieselskabet Th.
Wessel & Vett Magasin du Nord Magasin du Nord.
Audit scope The entities where we performed full scope audits accounted for 100% of retail revenue and 100% of profit before tax.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to manual adjustments posted to revenue and the cut-off of wholesale invoicing to franchises.
Areas of Inventory valuation using the retail method and stock provisioning for out focus of season inventory.
Goodwill and store impairment assessment.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 86 86 Strategic Report 1-37 Governance 38-58 Financial Statements 86-153 The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to For both retail and franchise revenue we agreed material manual adjustments posted to revenue and the manual journal entry adjustments made to revenue to cut-off of wholesale invoicing to franchises supporting documentation.
Our work did not identify any See note 2 to the financial statements for the directors significant unexpected or unsupported adjustments.
disclosures of the related revenue recognition accounting In Magasin du Nord, the system design was such that, policy and page 54 for the views of the Audit Committee.
rather than manually trace the journal entries to supporting The Groups revenue relates to both retail trading and documentation, we were able to use data auditing trading with franchise partners.
techniques to trace revenue transactions through the expected transaction flow and to highlight unexpected Retail revenue comprises high volume, low value cash or transactions needing further investigation.
Our review credit debit card transactions where the principal risk of of transactions did not highlight any significant fraud and manual error comes from the ability to unexpected items.
manipulate the results through posting manual journals outside of the standard automated transaction flow and In addition, for franchise revenue, we tested a sample of therefore not subject to the main controls over revenue.
sales transactions back to supporting documentation such The Group uses manual journals to post accounting as cash receipts or purchase orders and goods despatched adjustments including adjusting concessions sales so notes to ascertain the point at which the revenue should as to remove the element of the sale that is due to the be recorded and to make sure it is in the correct period.
concession partner: for deferral of revenue where sale of Our testing noted that Debenhams is entitled to recognise goods online are not yet dispatched at the year end, and sales on despatch of the goods in line with the franchise adjustments for staff discounts and refund provisions.
This agreements, and all items tested had been despatched risk is applicable to Debenhams Retail plc, Debenhams in advance of the year end.
We also obtained confirmation Retail Ireland Limited and Magasin du Nord as these are of year end accounts receivable balances with no material the only reporting units which generate retail revenue.
Franchise revenue comprises revenue from the sale of inventory to franchise partners for sale in overseas franchise stores and franchise fees for the use of the Debenhams brand by overseas franchise partners.
The principal risk of fraud and manual error in franchise revenue comes from manual journals as noted above.
There is also a risk that management could materially manipulate franchise revenue figures through forcing sales or invoicing the franchises in the incorrect period artificially inflating revenue for the current year.
Franchise sales are only recognised in Debenhams Retail plc.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 8 87 7 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP CONTINUED CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Inventory valuation using the retail method and Due to the reliance management places on the various provisioning for out of season inventory stock systems used within the Group, we evaluated the IT Refer to page 54 Audit Committee report and note 5 to controls over the relevant systems and tested the internal the financial statements for the directors disclosures of controls over the inventory valuation process including the the critical accounting estimates and judgements related process of recording inventory on receipt and agreement to the valuation of inventory.
of inventory invoices to proof of receipt and purchase orders.
This work gave us assurance over the processing The valuation of inventory in the UK and Ireland is of the inputs into managements margin calculations which determined using the retail method.
This is an industry are the basis of the inventory valuation.
specific accounting method used to derive a weighted average product cost.
This method relies on a number We also tested interfaces between the Groups systems of inputs including selling price, assumed margin and to ensure that sales prices used in the valuation were quantity.
The methodology is also impacted by the timing consistent with those prices in the store till system.
of processing markdowns which could significantly affect Our testing did not note any issues between systems.
Due to differences in the systems used, We obtained evidence over the quantities of inventory inventory in Magasin du Nord is valued using a cost through assessing the Groups controls by attending a based method which is less complex and therefore sample of inventory counts at stores and distribution this risk is not applicable to that reporting unit.
centres and reviewing the results of those not attended.
Furthermore, the ongoing pressure on consumer No significant issues were noted regarding existence or spending within the retail sector continues to create accuracy of inventory.
competition on the high street, especially in non-essential We reviewed departmental level margins against the categories such as fashion.
This could put pressure on the prior year margins for unusual fluctuations, with none level of out of season stock identified for markdown within being identified.
As such there is a risk that the realisable value of inventory will be lower than its recorded cost.
This risk We also assessed the level of out of season inventory at is relevant to Debenhams Retail plc, Debenhams Retail the year end, including testing managements controls Ireland Limited and Magasin du Nord as these are the in relation to classifying inventory as current, continuity only reporting units that hold inventory.
inventory with no season or out of season inventory and assessing the spend on mark downs in the month following the year end and the level of out of season inventory at the end of this period to check the reasonableness of the judgement involved in the markdown provisions applied to the year end inventory valuation.
Our testing noted that the controls in place were operating effectively for the purposes of our audit and no unusual patterns were noted through examining post year end markdowns.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 88 88 Strategic Report 1-37 Governance 38-58 Financial Statements 86-153 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill and store asset impairment assessment We tested that the impairment models used by Refer to note 5 to the financial statements for the management for both goodwill and store impairment directors disclosures of the critical accounting estimates were mathematically correct with no issues noted.
and judgements related to the goodwill impairment We challenged the directors on the inputs into their assessment and notes 13 & 14 for further details on impairment assessment calculations, including: the impairment test.
The directors key assumptions for short-term sales The UK retail market continues to evolve rapidly, with growth rates from 0.0% to 4.0%, by comparing them to customers purchasing habits adapting to include online historical results and the prospects for the stores, business offerings and other convenience options, and there is a and industry and noted that the rates used do not appear risk that this could impact the recoverable value of assets to be unreasonable: used within the store portfolio.
The directors key assumptions for long-term sales growth Management considers each store to be a cashrates of 2.0%, by comparing this to historical results, and generating unit CGU and has performed a discounted economic and industry forecasts and note that the rates cash flow impairment assessment at CGU level to ensure used in managements calculations were in line with this that the store assets are supported by its expected future data: and cash flows.
The discount rate post tax rate 7.5%, by assessing the cost of capital for the Group and comparable We focused on this area because of the significant organisations, forming a view of risk premiums as carrying value of store assets within the Group and the appropriate.
Having performed this assessment we judgement used in managements impairment assessment believe this is an appropriate discount rate.
including assumptions over future growth rates and discount rate.
Having challenged these assumptions, we focused further discussions with management on stores where there were The Group balance sheet also includes 818 million low profit margins or little headroom in the impairment goodwill which relates primarily to the acquisition in assessment, and as such we considered the risk of December 2003 of the Debenhams Group by Debenhams impairment to be greater.
For those stores that were plc.
Managements assessment of the store portfolio as identified as higher risk, we understood managements detailed above is used to form the basis of the goodwill support for the carrying value of store assets and agreed impairment review and is therefore subject to the same that the carrying value was appropriate.
assumptions as the store impairment review above.
We also performed sensitivity analysis on the key We focused on this area due to the changes noted in the assumptions including the short-term growth rates and retail market as detailed above.
discount rates as these are the key assumptions in the impairment model and noted that whilst the calculations are most sensitive to changes in short-term growth rates, there is sufficient headroom for this not to result in impairments being required.
We found, based on our audit work, that the key assumptions used by management were supportable and appropriate in light of the current environment.
Defined benefit pension plans We evaluated the pension liability assumptions, including Refer to note 5 to the financial statements for the discount rates, salary increases, inflation and mortality, directors disclosures on the critical accounting estimates utilising our internal actuarial specialists.
We considered and judgements related to the defined benefit pension and challenged the reasonableness of the actuarial plans and note 23 for detailed disclosures in relation to assumptions comparing the discount and inflation rates these plans.
used to our internally developed benchmark ranges, finding them to be within an acceptable range.
The Group has two defined benefit pension plans which comprise total pension assets of 795.8 million and total Both plans are closed to new entrants: the accuracy of pension liabilities of 769.6 million.
The valuation of the census data used to calculate the liability at the date of pension liabilities requires significant levels of judgement each triennial valuation was tested by agreeing a sample and technical expertise in choosing appropriate of individuals details to the Groups personnel records.
Changes in a number of the key assumptions including inflation, discount rates, and mortality can have a material impact on the calculation of the liability.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 8 89 9 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP CONTINUED CONTINUED How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured into two operating segments: UK and International.
These operating segments consist of eight reporting units excluding dormant entities.
Our audit approach was based on the underlying reporting units within the two operating segments.
We considered there to be five financially significant reporting units Debenhams Retail plc, Debenhams Properties Limited, Debenhams Retail Ireland Limited, Debenhams plc and Magasin du Nord.
The five financially significant reporting units were audited by the UK Group team with the exception of Magasin du Nord which was audited by PwC Denmark as component auditor operating under our instruction.
Audit work was performed over the consolidation process and tax at a consolidated Group level.
Where the work was performed by the component auditor, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
As part of our year end procedures, we held detailed discussions with the Magasin du Nord component audit team including update calls on the progress of their fieldwork and attending the clearance meeting with management by conference call.
The reporting units where we performed full scope audit work accounted for 100% of retail revenue and 100% of Group profit before tax.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 5.6 million 2014: 5.5 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group, and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 500,000 2014: 500,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 84, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 90 90 Strategic Report 1-37 Governance 38-58 Financial Statements 86-153 Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: The information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and The information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 44 to 49 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions information in the Annual Report is: to report arising from materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 85, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the annual report taken to report arising from as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary this responsibility.
for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the annual report on pages 52 to 55, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the We have no exceptions Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters to report arising from communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 85, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 9 91 1 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP CONTINUED CONTINUED What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and The overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the company financial statements of Debenhams plc for the year ended 29 August 2015 and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
JOHN ELLIS SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR FOR AND ON BEHALF OF  LLP CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND STATUTORY AUDITORS LONDON 22 OCTOBER 2015 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 92 92
