Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 65 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Dignity plc for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: Dignity plcs Group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 25 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the 52 week period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom General Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Dignity plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 25 December 2015 Company balance sheet as at 25 December 2015 Consolidated income statement for the 52 week period then ended Related notes to the financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the 52 week period then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the 52 week period then ended Consolidated cash flow statement for the 52 week period then ended Related notes to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards UK GAAP.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee The risk of inappropriate revenue recognition Our audit has identified, We carried out testing relating to controls over revenue recognition, including the That based on the results of the and addressed, specific timing of revenue recognition: procedures performed, we identified risks around incorrect no differences greater than our We evaluated the controls in the IT systems that support the recording of revenue: revenue cut-off at year end, reporting threshold to report to the We performed detailed cut-off testing on the provision of funerals and cremations the inappropriate recording Audit Committee.
delivered around the period end: of revenue for services not delivered, and the risk of We performed revenue transaction testing, which included ensuring that the inappropriate management services had been delivered and the transaction has been appropriately recorded override of the amount of in the income statement: revenue recorded.
We performed analytical procedures to compare revenue recognised with AC, AP, CAE expectations from past experience, managements forecasts and, where possible, external market data and obtained corroborative evidence to support divergences from our expectations: We identified and obtained support for journals generated at head office impacting revenue: and We ensured that the financial statement disclosures were in accordance with accounting standards.
The risk of fraud and management override We considered the risks We performed tailored procedures, including analytical procedures and obtaining Based on the results of the inherent in those areas support for any unusual journals identified, sufficient to address the identified procedures performed, including where manual journals risk in respect of subjective areas which we considered to be most susceptible to journal entry testing, we have not are posted at head office management override.
These areas were considered to be the bad debt provision, identified any anomalies.
as part of the financial pre-need cancellation provision, dilapidations provision and cost accruals.
These risks are discussed in other areas of the Annual Report as noted by the following key.
AC See Audit Committee report: p. 46 to p. 48.
AP See note 1 Accounting policies: p. 73 to p. 80.
CAE See note 1 Critical accounting estimates: p. 78 and p. 79.
Dignity plc 66 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Dignity plc continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 In the prior year, our auditors report included further risks of material misstatement as noted below.
In the current year we do not consider these items as having the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team for the following reasons: Accounting for the issue of New Secured Notes and Return of Cash this was completed in the prior year, as such we do not consider this to represent a significant risk within our current year audit strategy.
Determination of the assumptions used to derive the obligations for the defined benefit pension scheme we downgraded this risk for the current years audit based on experience the prior year audit and in the 2015 interim review where we found the assumptions to be within an acceptable range.
Non consolidation of pre-need trusts and the judgement that trade names have indefinite lives we considered the nonconsolidation of pre-need trusts and the judgement regarding the non-amortisation of trade names in detail in the prior year, our first year as auditors, and concluded both were appropriate.
The analysis in respect of pre-need trusts was updated at the Interim Review to encompass the requirements of IFRS 10 without any change to our conclusions.
In the absence of any significant change in the market place, the business or in the related disclosures in the Annual Report we do not consider these matters need to remain areas of particular focus.
The scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
The Group operates from head office and has common financial systems, processes and centralised controls covering all of its operations and individual locations.
The audit of the Group is undertaken by one audit team and the Group audit has been performed on the consolidated financial records to the materiality and performance materiality described below.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.4 million 2014: 2.9 million, which is 5 per cent of pre-tax income 2014: 5 per cent of pre-tax income after adding back the one-off costs related to the issuance of the New Secured Notes and Return of Cash.
We believe that pre-tax income is the most relevant measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75 per cent 2014: 50 per cent of our planning materiality, namely 2.58 million 2014: 1.45 million.
We have increased our assessment of performance materiality from 50 per cent to 75 per cent as we used 50 per cent in the prior year given that it was an initial audit for the firm and in light of our experience and the limited number of differences identified we concluded that it was appropriate to use 75 per cent for the current year audit.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.17 million 2014: 0.15 million, which is set at 5 per cent of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 67 Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report & Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 63, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Dignity plc 68 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Dignity plc continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: We have no exceptions to report.
the directors statement, set out on page 64, in relation to going concern and longer term viability, set out on page 31: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in We have nothing material to relation to: add or to draw attention to.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Simon ONeill Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 2 March 2016 Notes 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Dignity plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
