98 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Diploma PLC Opinion on financial statements of Diploma PLC the Directors statement in the Directors Report about whether they In our opinion: considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state ofthe in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30September 2015 and the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve of the Groups profit for the year thenended: months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in the Directors explanation on page 34 as to how they have assessed the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why adopted by the European Union: they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over Practice: and the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, Consolidated Statement of Income and Other Comprehensive Income, the this statement is not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of as a going concern.
Financial Position, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the related notes 1 to 29 and the Group Accounting policies.
This also comprises the Parent Independence Company Balance Sheet, the Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Funds and its related notes a to d and the Parent Company Accounting Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the company and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below arethose that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the company As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statement on pages 66 and 67 that the Group is a going concern.
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon and we do not We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: provide a separate opinion on thesematters.
the Directors confirmation on page 34 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 35 to 37 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Carrying value of goodwill We assessed the assumptions used in the impairment model, specifically The key assumptions used in the assessment of the carrying value of goodwill including the cash flow projections, cash-generating unit allocation, are determined with reference to judgemental factors such as projected cash discount rates, perpetuity growth rates and the sensitivities applied.
Our flows and the appropriate discount rate.
As at the year-end the Group held an procedures included reviewing forecast cash flows with reference to aggregate of 89.3 million of goodwill 2014: 80.2 million.
Refer to note 10 for historical trading performance and consulting with our valuation specialists details of these balances.
who benchmarked assumptions such as the discount rate to external macro-economic and market data.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the assets to be impaired by performing sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those assumptions arising and the adequacy of the disclosures within the financial statements.
Accounting for acquisitions We have challenged the key assumptions made by management in There is a risk that the acquisition accounting for the businesses acquired in the accounting for the acquisitions.
Specifically, we have reviewed the year, as set out in note 22, has not been correctly applied.
Specifically, there is a discount, tax and growth rates and in doing so we involved our own risk that incorrect judgements are made which results in inaccurate valuations valuation specialists to assist us in our assessment.
We have also re-calculated the liability of future purchases of minority There is also a risk the valuation of any liability for future purchases of minority interests and agreed this back to supporting forecasts.
interests, as set out in note 20, is incorrectly recorded.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 99 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of inventory including appropriateness of judgements applied We evaluated the recorded provision, specifically checking those relevant within the obsolescence provision inventory lines to assess whether they have been aged correctly and the Management judgement is required in determining the completeness of the appropriate provision percentage has been applied.
We have assessed the inventory provisions and making an assessment of its adequacy, considering net realisable value of inventory and challenged managements the age and volumes relative to expected usage.
At the year-end the Group assumptions with regards to the completeness of the inventory provisions held inventories of 56.6 million net of impairment provisions of 5.9 million and made an assessment of its adequacy, considering the age and provision 2014: 54.1 million net of impairment provisions of 5.3 million volumes relative to expected usage.
Wealso compared the actual sales provision.
Refer to note 15 for details of these balances.
value of a sample of inventory items to their book value to ascertain that the carrying value of inventories does not exceed their net realisable value.
The recoverability of trade receivables and appropriateness of the bad We have challenged managements assumptions in calculating the bad debt provision debt provision, including reviewing the ageing of receivables in comparison Management judgement is required in determining the completeness of to previous years, reviewing the level of bad debt write-offs in the current the trade receivables provision and making an assessment of its adequacy, year and against the prior year and checking the recoverability of considering the expected recoverability of the year end receivables.
At the outstanding receivables through examination of subsequent cash receipts.
year-end the Group held trade receivables of 44.8 million net of impairment provisions of 0.6 million 2014: 41.8 million net of impairment provisions of 0.5 million.
Refer to note 16 for details of these balances.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 49.
Our application of materiality Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial In our opinion: statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is to be 2.7 million 2014: 2.5 million, which is approximately 5% of profit consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 53,000 2014: 50,000, as well Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure opinion: matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the we have not received all the information and explanations we require for financial statements.
our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches Audit of all components are performed at a materiality level not exceeding 50% of Group materiality.
not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the An overview of the scope of our audit accounting records and returns.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 11 2014: 8 Directors remuneration locations.
Each of these 11 locations was subject to a full scope audit.
An Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our additional 8 2014: 6 locations were subject to specified audit procedures which opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made address each of the significant balances and significant risks within these or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in entities.
Together the work at these locations represents the principal business agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to units of the Group and accounts for 75% 2014: 71% of the Groups revenues report arising from these matters.
and 80% 2014: 78% of the Groups operating profit.
Corporate Governance Statement The Group audit team has designed and implemented a country visit Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the programme to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance member of the Group audit team visits the component locations to hold with eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have discussions with the lead partner, review their working papers, conclude on nothing to report arising from our review.
any findings and attend close out meetings with local management.
Each year this programme of visits includes the three most significant territories being Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report the US, Canada and UK.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Where no visits are carried out the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial member of the team has held discussions with the lead partner and attended statements: or close out meetings by phone.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and audit: or carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were is otherwise misleading.
no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or specified In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any audit procedures.
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors Statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
100 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Diploma PLC continued Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are either required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures inthe financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Edward Hanson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 16 November 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 101 Subsidiaries of Diploma PLC Group Group percentage Country of percentage Country of of equity incorporation of equity incorporation capital or registration capital or registration 1 Life Sciences Microtherm UK Limited 100% England 1 Somagen Diagnostics Inc 100% Canada IS Group Europe Limited 100% England 1 AMT Surgical Inc 100% Canada Hymec Aerospace Fasteners Limited 100% England Vantage Endoscopy Inc 100% Canada Specialty Fasteners & Components 1 Limited 100% England Big Green Surgical Company Pty Limited 100% Australia Interconnect Components Services 1 Diagnostic Solutions Pty Limited 100% Australia Group Limited 100% England 1 Diploma Healthcare Group NZ Cabletec Flexibles Limited 100% England Limited 100% New Zealand Intermediate Holding Companies Techno-Path Distribution Limited 80% Ireland Diploma Holdings PLC 100% England A1-CBISS Limited 100% England Diploma Holdings Inc 100% USA a1-envirosciences GmbH 100% Germany Pride Limited 100% England 1 Hitek Limited 100% England Diploma Australia Holdings Limited 100% England 1 Hitek Group Limited 100% England Diploma Canada Holdings Limited 100% England Seals Diploma Overseas Limited 100% England HB Sealing Products Inc 100% USA Napier Group Limited 100% England J Royal US, Inc 100% USA Williamson Cliff Limited 100% England HKX Inc 100% USA Newlandglebe Limited 100% England All Seals Inc 100% USA Diploma Germany Holding GmbH 100% Germany RTD Seals Corp 100% USA Diploma Canada Healthcare Inc 100% Canada M Seals A S 90% Denmark Diploma Australia Healthcare Pty M Seals AB 90% Sweden Limited 100% Australia Diploma Australia Seals Pty Limited 100% Australia M Seals NCL Limited 100% England 1 Diploma Tianjin Trading Co. Limited 100% China a1-Envirosciences Limited 100% England FPE Seals Limited 100% England HB Sealing Products Limited 100% Canada 1 A.
Seals Limited 100% England Swan Seals Aberdeen Limited 100% Scotland FPE Seals Europe BV 100% Netherlands Kentek Oy 90% Finland ZAO Kentek 90% Russia AO Kentek 90% Russia Kentek Eesti Ou 90% Estonia SIA Kentek Latvija 90% Lativa UAB Kentek Lietuva 90% Lithuania Rutin AG 100% Switzerland Kubo Tech AG 100% Switzerland Kubo Form AG 100% Switzerland Kubo Tech GmbH 100% Austria Kubo Immo AG 100% Switzerland Johannsen AG 100% Switzerland West Coast Industrial Supplies Pty Limited 100% Australia West Coast Industrial Supplies New Caledonia SAS 100% New Caledonia Controls IS Rayfast Limited 100% England IS Motorsport Inc 100% USA 1 Amfast Limited 100% England Specialty Fasteners Limited 100% England Clarendon Engineering Supplies 1 Limited 100% England Cabletec Interconnect Component 1 Systems Limited 100% England Sommer GmbH 100% Germany Filcon Electronic GmbH 100% Germany Hawco Limited 100% England 1 Abbeychart Limited 100% England 1 HA Wainwright Limited 100% England 1 Microtherm Limited 100% England 1 Hawco Refrigeration Limited 100% England 1 Dormant company.
