Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE GROUP: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT the parent company financial statements have been properly INDEPENDENT AUDITORS prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the DIAGEO plc ONLY group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
OPINION AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 2.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified As explained in the accounting policies set out in the group financial We have audited the financial statements of Diageo plc for the year statements, the group, in addition to complying with its legal ended 30 June 2015 set out on pages 88 to 139.
In our opinion: obligation to apply IFRS as adopted by the EU, has also applied IFRS the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion, the group financial statements the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 June 2015 comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in 3.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the as adopted by the European Union EU : risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: RECOVERABILITY OF GOODWILL, DISTRIBUTION RIGHTS AND BRAND INTANGIBLE ASSETS WITH AN INDEFINITE LIFE Refer to page 61 Audit Committee Report and page 109 accounting policies and financial disclosures The risk: These assets future recoverability is dependent on Our detailed testing focused particularly on those assets with achieving sufficient level of future profitability.
The assets are a higher risk of material impairment, most notably, the Ypica spread across a broad range of markets and consequently forecast brand and the intangible assets acquired with United Spirits cash flows are judgemental, requiring assumptions to be made Limited.
For all higher risk assets, we challenged the relating to differing and often complex regulatory and economic appropriateness of the key assumptions, including forecast cash environments as well as consumer sentiment.
flows, long term growth rates and the discount rate by reference to These assets are most prone to the risk of impairment in the past performance: future plans by performing independent market early years after acquisition as market position and synergies are analysis: and performed sensitivity analysis on the impairment established and as distribution networks are extended under the models.
Our assessment was based on our understanding of the groups control or when there is a significant deterioration in commercial prospects of the assets, identification and analysis of economic conditions or any other external factors.
changes in assumptions from prior periods, an assessment of the consistency of assumptions, comparison of assumptions with Our response: In this area our audit procedures included the publicly available data, and where relevant, the historic accuracy testing of controls designed and operated by the group relating of the groups forecasting.
to the regular update, monitoring, analysis, and appropriate We considered the appropriateness of disclosures in relation approval of impairment model assumptions.
to impairment sensitivities in note 10 to the financial statements.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND THEIR PRESENTATION UNITED SPIRITS LIMITED Refer to page 61 Audit Committee Report and pages 106 accounting policies and financial disclosures The risk: The group acquired a controlling stake in United Spirits Our response: We obtained independent valuations of the acquired brands and tangible assets as at 2 July 2014, prepared Limited USL on 2 July 2014, and has consolidated its results since that date, recognising identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and by experts engaged by the group.
We assessed the competence, goodwill at fair value.
The identification of the assets and liabilities capabilities and objectivity of the independent valuers and assessed acquired and measurement of them at fair value and consequently, the reasonableness of their conclusions having regard to the key assumptions including forecast cash flows and discount rates.
the measurement of goodwill is inherently judgemental.
USL has a number of complex historical arrangements, and We assessed the groups determination of the fair value of the the audit reports on the financial statements for the years ended remaining assets and liabilities having regard to the completeness 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015 were qualified.
of assets and liabilities identified and the reasonableness of any underlying assumptions in their valuation.
The most significant qualification was in respect of loans and advances made by USL to entities trading with the United Breweries We considered the qualifications included in the audit report Holdings Limited, a group of companies controlled by the former of USL for the years ended 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015.
We principal shareholder of USL.
Provisions have been made against the assessed the impact of these qualifications on the completeness and accuracy of the balance sheet of USL at 2 July 2014, the balance recoverability of the relevant loans and advances and the related interest claims, however pending conclusion of the Boards sheet of USL at 30 June 2015, and the results and cash flows of USL investigation into these transactions, the auditors report on the for the year then ended included in these financial statements.
Our financial statements was qualified in respect of the adequacy of the procedures included a comparison of the third party investigation report with our audit findings and enquiries with the group general provisions.
Each of these factors results in a higher risk that the acquired counsel.
We also considered the adequacy of contingent liability assets, liabilities and resulting goodwill may be misidentified or disclosures in relation to the acquisition.
86 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE GROUP: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Refer to page 61 Audit Committee Report and page 129 accounting policies and financial disclosures The risk: The group has extensive international operations and, in Our response: Our audit procedures included challenging the the normal course of business, provisions or contingent liabilities appropriateness of the groups assumptions having regard to may arise from general legal proceedings, guarantees, access to the security package provided in connection with the government investigations, or environmental issues.
The group is conditional backstop guarantee and an assessment of the levels of a defendant in a number of legal, customs and tax proceedings provisions, having regard to correspondence between the groups incidental to its operations.
In particular, these relate to i a external counsel and national revenue and customs authorities and other third parties.
conditional backstop guarantee issued to Standard Chartered Bank for up to $135 million in respect of a loan facility from Standard We assessed completeness of provisions through review of legal Chartered to Watson Limited, a company affiliated with Dr Vijay expenses, discussion with the groups internal legal counsel, and Mallya and ii continuing claims against the group in respect of monitoring external sources of information such as industry media to identify actual and potential non-compliance with laws and the drug thalidomide.
The amounts involved are potentially significant and the application of accounting standards to regulations relevant to the group.
In addition we obtained formal determine the amount, if any, to be provided as a liability is confirmations of the status of legal cases from the groups external inherently subjective.
counsel where appropriate and ensured that the provisions and disclosures reflected matters covered by those confirmations.
We also assessed whether the groups disclosures detailing significant legal proceedings adequately disclose the potential liabilities of the group and considered the appropriateness of disclosures in respect of other contingent liabilities.
VENEZUELAN FOREIGN EXCHANGE Refer to page 61 Audit Committee Report and page 94 financial disclosures The risk: The Venezuelan Bolivar VEF is subject to strict currency Our response: Our audit procedures included a critical assessment restrictions and is not freely exchangeable.
As at 30 June 2015 there of the history of the rates at which the group has been able to are multiple official rates of exchange of VEF to US dollars $.
The convert VEF to $, and the restrictions on the different rates disparity between the different rates is significant, ranging from currently available to the group to determine the appropriateness $1 VEF6.3 to VEF197.3.
Consequently the determination of the of using SIMADI when consolidating the groups Venezuelan appropriate rate at which to consolidate the groups Venezuelan operations.
operations has a material impact on the group financial statements.
We also assessed the adequacy of disclosures in relation to the In the year ended 30 June 2014, the group applied The Second change in rate and its financial impact on the group.
Ancillary Foreign Currency Administration System SICAD II, consolidating at a rate of $1 VEF49.98.
The Marginal Currency System SIMADI was introduced in February 2015 and the SICAD II rate was withdrawn.
The introduction of the SIMADI allows for greater potential access to foreign currency and consequently has been assessed by the group as being the most appropriate rate to use when consolidating their operations in Venezuela 1$ VEF197.3.
This has resulted in a significant devaluation of Venezuelan net assets and results in the year ended 30 June 2015.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope The group operates through a significant number of reporting of our audit components.
Of these components, we subjected 11 to audits for The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set group reporting purposes and 1 to an audit of revenue.
The latter at 135 million determined with reference to a benchmark of group was not individually financially significant enough to require an audit profit before taxation, of which it represents 4.6%.
for group reporting purposes, but was included in the scope of our We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected group reporting work in order to provide further coverage over the identified misstatements exceeding 7 million in addition to other groups revenue.
identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The group operates four shared service centres in Hungary, the Philippines, Kenya and Colombia, the outputs of which are included Materiality of the Group Financial Statements in the financial information of the reporting components they service and therefore they are not a separate reporting component.
Each of Pro t before tax Materiality the service centres is subject to specified audit procedures, 2,933m 135m Whole financial statements materiality predominantly the testing of transaction processing and review of controls.
Additional audit procedures are performed at certain reporting components to address the audit risks not covered by the Misstatements reported work performed over the shared service centres.
7m to the Audit Committee Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE GROUP: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT The key components & shared service centres within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results: Components profits losses Group net sales Group total assets before taxation 12% 20% 20% 80% 80% 88% Key components and shared Other components service centres and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Revenue, group profit before tax and total group assets of other components not in scope are represented by a significant number of the groups performance, business model and strategy: or other reporting components, none of which individually represent the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address more than 3% of these measures, and the majority are subject to matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
local statutory audits, which are not completed at the date of this report.
For these other components, we performed analysis focusing Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, specifically on revenue at the aggregated group level to re-examine in our opinion: our assessment that there are no significant risks of material adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent misstatement within these components.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been The group audit team instructed component auditors and shared received from branches not visited by us: or service centre auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, the parent company financial statements and part of the including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement reported back.
The group audit team approved the component with the accounting records and returns: or materialities, which ranged from 7 million to 75 million having regard certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law to the mix of size and risk profile of the group across the components.
are not made: or The work on all components was performed by component auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations The group audit team performed the work on valuation of indefinite we require for our audit.
lived intangible assets and post employment benefits.
The group audit team visited 5 component locations in the United Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Kingdom UK, the United States of America US, India, China and the directors statement, set out on page 59, in relation to Hungary.
Telephone and or online meetings were also held with going concern: these component auditors and the majority of the other key the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 56 to 59 components that were not physically visited.
The findings reported relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the to the group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
further work required by the group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies SCOPE OF REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES Act 2006 is unmodified As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set In our opinion: out on page 59, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial 2006: and statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors at www.
This report is made solely report for the financial year for which the financial statements are to the companys members as a body and is subject to important prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
We have nothing to report in respect of matters on which we are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read are required to report by exception to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material Paul Korolkiewicz Senior Statutory Auditor inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: Chartered Accountants we have identified material inconsistencies between the 15 Canada Square knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors London statement that they consider that the annual report and financial E14 5GL statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable 29 July 2015
