FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation What we have audited of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Dominos Pizza Group plcs financial statements comprise: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Group Parent company preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable Consolidated balance sheet Balance sheet as at law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom as at27 December 2015 27December2015 Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Consolidated income statement Our opinion on the financial statements for the 52 week period then ended In our opinion: Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the o the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 52week period then ended Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 27 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the 52 week period then ended: Consolidated statement of Statement of changes in equity changesin equity for the 52 week forthe 52 week period then ended o the Group financial statements have been properly prepared periodthenended inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Consolidated cash flow statement o the parent company financial statements have been properly for the 52 week period then ended prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Related notes 1 to 37 Related notes 1 to 9 tothefinancial statements  o the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality o Overall Group materiality of 3.7m which represents 5% of Profit before taxation from continuing operations.
Audit scope o We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 6 components and audit procedures onspecificbalances for a further 4 components.
o The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 99% of Profit beforetaxfrom continuing operations, 99% of Revenue and 97% of Total assets.
o The components subject to review scope covered the remainder less than 1% of Profit before taxation fromcontinuing operations Revenue and 1%totalassets.
Risks of material misstatement o Classification of discontinued operations and completeness of restructuring provisions in respect oftheexitfrom the German business.
o Adequacy of disclosure of tax treatment of reversionary interest share-based compensation schemes.
o Susceptibility to management override in recharging expenditure incurred by the Group to the National Advertising Fund.
o Recognition of revenue in incorrect periods and susceptibility to management override through manual journals.
o Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets of the business in Switzerland.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Our application of materiality An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether and in forming our audit opinion.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Ifwe become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 66 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them Materiality alluncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.16m 2014: 0.1m, The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually which was set at 5% of initial planning materiality, as well as differences orinthe aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative theeconomic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of ofour audit procedures ISA 320. other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
We determined initial materiality for the Group to be 3.4m The scope of our audit 2014:2.7m, which was 5% 2014: 5% of profit before taxation.
During thecourse of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality.
Following Tailoring the scope theannouncement in December 2015 of the discontinuance of the Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation operations in Germany, we revised our materiality basis from profit of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each component before taxation to profit before taxation from continuing operations within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on andfrom 3.4m to 3.7m.
In determining audit scope we We use profit before taxation from continuing operations as reported take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and bythe Group to exclude the impact of discontinued operations effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment whichdonot reflect the underlying trading performance of the group.
and other factors such as findings from third party assurance reviews This avoids inappropriate variations in our materiality as a result when assessing the level of work to be performed at each component.
The Group manages its operations from a single location in the UK andhas common financial systems, processes and controls covering allsignificant components.
The audit of all in-scope components is performed by one audit team.
The audit team includes tax specialists o Profit before taxation 62.3m Starting and valuation specialists.
basis In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the fifteen reporting o Loss on discontinued operations before components of the Group, we selected ten components covering entities taxation 10.9m within the UK, Ireland, Switzerland and Germany which represent the Adjustments principal business units within the Group.
Of the ten components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of six components full scope components which o Profit before taxation from continuing were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining operations73.2m materiality basis four components specific scope components, we performed audit Materiality o Materiality of 3.7m 5% of materiality basis procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts ortheir risk profile.
Reporting components where Performance materiality we performed Full Specific Other audit procedures scope scope procedures The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability Revenue 99% 96% 3.5% 0.5% that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements 2014: 97% exceeds materiality ISA 320.
Profit before tax from 99% 102% 3% 5% On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the continuing operations 2014: 101% Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance Total assets 97% 92% 5% 3% materiality should be set at 50% 2014: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 1.8m 2014: 1.4m.
We have maintained performance The audit scope of these components may not have included testing materiality at 50% reflecting the results of our testing of the Groups ofall significant accounts of the component but will have contributed systems and processes and historical audit findings.
tothe coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit Of the remaining 6 components that together represent 1% of the Groups coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken Profit before tax from continuing operations: none are individually greater based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance than 1% of the Groups Profit before tax from continuing operations.
For materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of review, testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations the risk of material misstatement at each component.
Inthe current and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to potential year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components risks of material misstatement tothe Group financial statements.
Changes from the prior year Reporting threshold There were no changes to our scoping strategy from the prior year.
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered asbeing clearly trivial ISA 450.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 67 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee New Risk This Year We inspected each of the sale and purchase The accounting for the impact of the contracts entered into by the Group to understand transaction has been appropriately reflected Classification of discontinued operations the substance of the arrangements.
We examined inthe financial statements with the German andcompleteness of related restructuring these contracts to assess the degree of influence operations presented as discontinued provisions inrespect of the exit from the retained by the Group in the new investment to during the year.
German business establish that the control of the German business Assets held for sale at the balance sheet Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 39 : had passed to the new entity.
date represent those stores where the sale Accounting policies page 78 : and Note 12 We have evaluated the appropriateness of the proposed was considered highly probable.
ofthe Consolidated Financial Statements presentation of the German business as a discontinued page92.
The provisions for restructuring costs reflect operation, in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current conservative estimates of the Groups In December 2015, the Group announced Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
liabilities arising from managements action itwas exiting the German market.
The Group We examined managements project plans tovalidate before the year-end.
entered into agreements to: acquire a the commitment to terminate the business and the non-controlling interest in a new company, completeness of restructuring provisions.
We tied controlled by Dominos Pizza Enterprises Limited, through the losses for the year presented as and to terminate its operations in Germany discontinued operations totheGerman trial through disposal of stores and closure of balanceand consolidation adjustments residual infrastructure.
The transaction toensurethey were complete.
We tested the corporate tax presented within The substance of the arrangements entered discontinued operations to validate the appropriate into required judgement in determining the calculation of tax had beenrecorded.
classification of results as discontinued operations and assets and liabilities as In respect of the restructuring provisions, wetested heldforsale.
the provisions for redundancy costsby checking a sample of payments to redundancy contracts and The recognition of the provisions for restructuring cash disbursements.
costs associated with the termination of operations involved estimates based on future outcomes We examined a sample of property leases to of commercial negotiations.
corroborate the estimates of future rental commitments used in the estimate of onerous lease provisions.
We challenged the recognition of provisions inrespect of future operating losses.
We tested the valuation of a sample of assets tovalidate the completeness of the provisions forirrecoverable debtors.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 68 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee New Risk This Year We have inspected a sample of the compensation Until the Group receives confirmation of contracts to gain an understanding of the HMRCs position regarding the non-taxable Reversionary interest share-based commercial purpose of the awards.
treatment of the schemes there remains compensation schemes uncertainty as to the extent, if any, of the We have inspected professional advice in respect of Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 39 : Groups exposure to employment taxes the effectiveness of indemnity arrangements provided Accounting policies page 79. inrespect of the schemes.
to the Group from award recipients to understand the Certain of the Groups historic share-based impact of such agreements on the Groups position.
The disclosure of the significant judgement compensation arrangements dating from 2003 within the accounting policies note is consistent We examined historic correspondence between HMRC to 2010 involved the use of employee benefit with the advice provided to the Group by and the Group to understand the latest views of HMRC trusts which provided award recipients with its advisers and existing market practice.
on managements tax treatment of the awards.
reversionary interests in the form of share appreciation rights.
Significant judgement We have involved our remuneration tax specialists to isrequired to determine the treatment of support us in corroborating the advice provided to suchcompensation from an employment the Group by the Groups tax advisers with regard to taxperspective.
the effectiveness of the design and implementation of the schemes.
We corroborated our understanding There is a risk that if HMRC were to reach a of the advice given to the Group by interviewing the different judgement on the employment tax Groups tax advisers.
treatment of the compensation arrangements, this may give rise to material adverse income We have considered the disclosure presented in the statement and or cash flow variances.
notes to the accounts to ensure that it is consistent with managements judgements in respect of the tax The introduction of the extension of HMRCs treatment of the schemes.
Advance Penalty Notice to now cover National Insurance Contributions, together with the perceived increase in HMRCs focus on compensation schemes involving employee benefit trusts has led us to view this area asone of increased risk.
New Risk This Year We inspected the franchise agreement framework to The franchisees ability to control the use determine the extent of influence that the Group has of the resources in the NAF supports the National Advertising Fund expenditure over the use of the resources held by the NAF to Groups judgement not to consolidate the Refer to the Accounting policies page 83 : determine whether it should be consolidated with income and expenditure of the NAF.
andNote 23 ofthe Consolidated Financial the Groups accounts.
Due to the existing agreement being a Statements page101.
We performed testing to confirm that costs charged framework, judgement is required for all Franchisees pay contributions which are to the fund are permitted costs under the fund rules items that are recharged to the NAF.
We collected by the Group for specific use within by selecting a sample of expenses and corroborating did not identify expenses which had been the National Advertising Fund NAF.
The fund to supporting documentation.
inappropriately expensed against the NAF.
is operated by the Group on behalf of franchisees We identified manual journals posted to the NAF with the objective of driving revenues for their fund, and where significant, understood the rationale stores.
Total contributions made to the NAF for for the journal entry and agreed the journals to the 52 week period amounted to 41.8m and relevant supporting documentation.
the NAF balance at 27 December 2015 was a creditor of 0.3m 2014: net debtor of 1.6m.
We performed a proof in total of credits to the NAF based upon a fixed percentage of system sales.
The NAF is governed by a framework.
The System sales were substantively tested by selecting description of activities to be expensed against a sample of items to test to supporting documentation.
the fund is such that judgement is required to determine the appropriateness of the nature and extent of costs to be recharged from the Group to the fund.
The recharging of expenditure incurred by the Group on behalf of the NAF is susceptible to management override through inappropriate expenditure being charged to theNational Advertising Fund NAF.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 69 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Revenue recognition We performed detailed testing over revenue Revenue was recognised in accordance recognition as follows: with the Groups accounting policies and Refer to the Accounting policies page 84 : nomatters in respect of cut off around andNote 3 of the Consolidated Financial Through the execution of our testing procedures theyear-end were identified.
Statements page 86. wehave ensured that revenue across each of the Groups significant revenue streams was appropriately In addition, there were no matters Total Group revenue is 316.9m 2014: 288.7m.
identified in respect of inappropriate The Groups significant revenue streams include manual journals impacting revenue.
royalties, corporate store sales, sales to We performed detailed testing on a sample of sales franchisees and rental income.
transactions across the year and across each significant revenue stream tracing from origination through to We continue to assess revenue recognition as thegeneral ledger to ensure that the revenue was an area of audit risk which has a significant appropriately recorded and to address the risk effect on our audit strategy and our allocation ofcutoff.
We performed data analysis techniques to understand There is a risk of misstatement of revenue the flow of revenue transactions in the general ledger.
through cut off errors at the year-end arising Inaddition, we performed substantive analytical from the recording of transactions in incorrect procedures using the inter-relationship ofsystem periods and susceptibility to management sales, royalty income and sales to franchisees to override through recording of inappropriate analyse movements in revenue yearon year.
We performed specific cut off procedures to testtransactions around the year-end and verified tooriginating documentation that the sales transactions and franchisee incentives wererecorded in the correct period.
We performed procedures to understand the natureofkey franchisee incentives.
We tested asample of incentives in respect of rebates and rent-free periods byconfirming the calculation and payment was in line with the respective franchisee incentive agreement.
Inaddition, weperformed franchisee circularisation to confirm the completeness of provisions for rebatesat the year-end.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 7 locations, whichcovered 99% of the risk amount.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 70 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Risk of Impairment in Switzerland We obtained the impairment analysis performed The cash flow projections prepared by bymanagement and compared the consistency management support the carrying value of Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 39 : ofthe current year methodology to prior year.
the goodwill and intangible assets held in Accounting policies page 82 : and Note 15 respect of Dominos Swiss business.
The ofthe Consolidated Financial Statements We performed testing over the impairment analysis headroom in the value in use model has page95.
for logical and arithmetic accuracy and to ensure decreased compared to the prior year.
that it has been prepared in line with the guidance Given the continued losses made by the Swiss provided in IAS36.
In performing sensitivity testing over the business, there is an increased riskof impairment.
key assumptions we concluded there to There is a high degree ofmanagement judgement We performed a retrospective review of forecasts in besufficient headroom.
in assessing the potential impairment of the order to identify bias within managements assumptions.
goodwill and assetsrelating to the In addition we performed an assessment of historic The CGUs for the purposes of assessing Switzerlandbusiness.
performance against budgets to gain assurance over impairment over property, plant and the accuracy of managements forecasting process.
equipment were assessed at the individual Goodwill and Intangibles of 3.9m 2014: 3.9m store level, consistent with prior periods.
is included in the consolidated balance sheet We performed procedures to obtain an understanding The cash flow projections prepared by inrespect of the Swiss business.
In addition, of the underlying assumptions made in the forecasts management supported the carrying values property, plant and equipment with a carrying and corroborated the appropriateness of these of the stores with one immaterial exception.
value of 5.4m 2014: 2.6m relate to the assumptions with evidence.
The key assumptions included: o Discount rate o Long-term growth rate The reasonableness of these key assumptions were tested through challenging the Groups detailed calculations.
In respect of the discount rate, an independent assessment was made by our experts based on general market indicators.
We performed sensitivity analysis over the key assumptions within the impairment model.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, misstatement in relation to manipulation of reported earnings with inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. particular focus on the areas of judgement over property-related and Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the other provisions and the classification of exceptional items in determining companys members those matters we are required to state to them non-GAAP measures of profitability.
In the current year, no risk over the inan auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent classification of exceptional items was identified as no such items were permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone reported in the current year.
No risk of material misstatement in relation other than the company and the companys members as a body, for to property-related and other procedures was identified as the amounts ouraudit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
were not considered material to the financial statements to meet the Opinion on other matters prescribed definition of a significant risk.
bytheCompaniesAct 2006 In the prior year, the risk of misstatement relating to revenue recognition In our opinion: specified, in addition to cut off errors, the risk of inappropriate accounting for deductions from revenue related to franchisee incentives, such as o the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited rebates, rent-free periods and variable credit terms.
There is not a high hasbeen properly prepared in accordance with the Companies degree of estimation in the calculation of these items and based on Act2006: and historical audit findings and our current audit work, we no longer o the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors consider it an area of significant risk.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 65, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information We have no ISAs UK and Ireland inthe annual report is: exceptions to report.
reporting o materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or o apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, ourknowledge oftheGroup acquired in the course of performing our audit:or o otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no Companies Act 2006 exceptions to report.
reporting o adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or o the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or o certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or o we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We are required to review: We have no Listing Rules review exceptions to report.
requirements o the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 64, and longer-term viability, set out on page 23: and o the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance withthe provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency  We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw We have nothing ISAs UK and Ireland attention to in relation to: material to add or reporting todraw attention to.
o the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: o the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: o the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and o the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Christopher Voogd Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 2 March 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 72 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
