Financials Drax Group plc 99 Annual report and accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Drax Group plc We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern Opinion on financial statements of Drax Group plc basisof accounting and we did not identify any such material In our opinion: uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December asto the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Independence accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting the parent company financial statements have been properly CouncilsEthical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally weare independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other Accepted Accounting Practice, set out in FRS 101 Reduced ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We Disclosure Framework: and also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with services referred to in those standards.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income arethose that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, theengagement team.
the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the related Group notes 2.1 to 8.4 and the related Parent Company notes 1 to 8.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, set out in FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained on page 104 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the group contained within the strategic report on pages 50 and 51.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 53 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 54, 55 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement on page 104 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the directors explanation 50, 51 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
100 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Drax Group plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Asset impairment We carried out testing of the design and implementation of key On 1 August 2015, the UK government announced the withdrawal controls related to asset impairment.
of support under the CCL resulting in a significant loss of income and a reduction in market value, below the net asset value.
The significant judgements have been disclosed by management Earnings have also been impacted by low market prices resulting in note 2.3 and include: in reductions in underlying profits.
Management has therefore The award of a CfD for the third biomass unit with an performed an impairment review in the current year.
assumed price of 100 MWh: Some form of support in place after the current ROC regime As noted in the Groups critical accounting judgements, ends in 2027 with a value to incentivise profitable generation: estimates and assumptions in note 2.3 and the Audit Committee Forecast biomass prices in the long term, given that biomass report on page 72, asset impairment has been considered a is not a standardised commodity traded openly on exchanges.
We utilised our valuation specialists to benchmark key market The impairment testing is subject to the application of related assumptions including commodity prices, current and management judgement in identifying Cash Generating Units future government support mechanisms and discount rates CGUs and various assumptions underlying the calculation of against external data where available.
For example, we have value in use for each CGU identified.
These assumptions include compared the estimated strike price of 100 MWh assumed by the achievability of the long term business plan and related management to the EC approved strike price of 105 MWh for modelling assumptions underlying the valuation process.
the conversion of Lynemouth power station in December 2015.
We have considered the expected government support that biomass could receive after the end of the current ROC regime in 2027 relative to other renewable technologies to determine whether managements assumptions are reasonable.
We have considered the liquidity of the biomass market and the impact that Drax could have on that market relating to the volumes of biomass required in the future.
We have also challenged the underlying assumptions and significant judgements used in managements impairment modelby: Running a range of sensitivities to assess whether an impairment would be required if a range of more conservative assumptions were adopted.
Assessing the historical accuracy of managements budgets and forecasts by comparing them to actual performance and verifying the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow models.
Assessing whether the disclosures in note 2.3 of the financial statements appropriately disclose the key judgements taken so that the reader of the accounts is aware of the impact of the financial statement of changes to key assumptions that may lead to impairment.
Valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts We carried out testing of the design and implementation of Unrealised gains on derivative contracts recognised in the key controls related to the valuation of commodity and foreign income statement are 123.7 million 2014: 65.8 million, with exchange contracts.
derivative financial statement assets of 330.8 million 2014: 139.1 million and derivative financial statement liabilities of We used our financial instruments specialists to test 274.3 million 2014 130.7 million on the balance sheet.
managements key judgements and calculations, including testing a sample of trades undertaken to supporting trade tickets The valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts is confirming key information such as volumes and market price.
complex and requires judgement in areas such as estimates of future prices, market movements, and assumptions of credit risk.
We challenged the assumptions involved in determining valuation, hedge effectiveness and credit risk, including analysis The accounting standards governing the availability and of the forward price curves used and hedge effectiveness application of hedge accounting are complex, and require documentation maintained.
Further detail of the key judgements are disclosed in the Groups critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions in section 7 and the Audit Committee report on page 72.
Financials Drax Group plc 101 Annual report and accounts 2015 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of biomass and coal stocks We carried out testing of the design and implementation of key Biomass stocks of 119 million and coal stocks of 89 million controls related to the valuation of biomass and coal stocks.
2014: 81 million and 145 million respectively are held on the balance sheet at year end.
The valuation of biomass and Our audit procedures include testing the underlying weighted coal stocks is dependent upon the estimation or measurement average cost calculation for both coal and biomass to source respectively of the tonnage held, the calorific value, its purchase data such as purchase invoice for amounts delivered in the year.
price and its net realisable value.
The weighted average cost Our procedures also included sample testing of the calorific value calculation is complex for both coal and biomass and this results to third party laboratory reports or purchase invoice.
in increasing risk of management error or bias and therefore an increased risk of material misstatement.
Further details of the We evaluated the results of external surveys completed on the key accounting policy judgements are included in note 3.3. coal pile at the year end and attended the survey to assess the controls over the accuracy of the survey.
We assessed biomass deliveries and usage associated with the calculation of biomass volumes held at the year end.
On a sample basis we also requested and received external stock confirmation for stocks held off site and agreed these to the underlying records.
Valuation and recoverability of ROCs We carried out testing of the design and implementation of key 266 million of ROCs are held on the balance sheet at the year controls related to the valuation and recoverability of ROCs.
ROCs are recognised as they are earned through generating electricity from burning biomass.
They are We gained assurance over the ROCs generated in the year by initially recognised at fair value reducing the cost of biomass agreement to Ofgem confirmation certificates and available in the income statement and subsequently written down to burn data.
the net realisable value as appropriate.
Judgement is required from management in estimating both the initial fair value We have assessed the initial fair value of ROCs by agreement of and estimated net realisable value, including the value of any the buy-out price to available third party supporting information recycling fund element.
Further detail is explained in the Groups and external sales agreements.
critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions in note 3.2 and the Audit Committee report on page 72.
We have also challenged the estimation by management oftherecycling fund element which impacts the estimated netrealisable value of the ROCs held in the balance sheet at year end.
This included comparison to other available third partyestimates.
102 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Drax Group plc continued Last year our report included one risk which is not included this year An overview of the scope of our audit relating to the useful economic life and carrying value of property, Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the plant and equipment.
This risk has been considered as part of our group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and asset impairment work by considering the consistency of asset assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
impairment assumptions with estimated useful economic lives.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at three locations 2014: the same The description of risks above should be read in conjunction three locations, being Drax Power, Haven Power and Drax withthe significant issues considered by the Audit Committee Biomass.
All of these were subject to a full audit.
These three discussed on page 72. locations represent the principal business units and account for all of the groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
They were These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, work to address the risks of material misstatement identified and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our audit work at the 3 locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower Our application of materiality than group materiality and ranged from 3.0 million to 4.8 million We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement 2014: 2.9 million to 5.5 million.
inthefinancial statements that makes it probable that the economicdecisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process wouldbe changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the resultsof our work.
aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
When determining materiality, we considered the decline inearnings this year and at present do not consider that this The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned declineis likely to reflect a long-term reduction in the size visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor andscale of the business.
visits each of the locations where the group audit scope was focused at least once every two years and the most significant We therefore determined materiality by considering a range of locations several times a year.
During 2015, the senior statutory possible benchmarks and the figures derived from those, then auditor visited each significant location.
selecting a materiality within that range that we considered appropriate.
We determined materiality for the Group on a Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 blendedbasis to be 6.1 million 2014: 6.1 million.
In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited This materiality equates to 0.4% of net assets and 13.3% of has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies underlying profit before tax, before unrealised gains or losses Act 2006: and onderivative contracts and one-off asset obsolescence charges.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Lastyear we used a benchmark of 5% of underlying profit before Report for the financial year for which the financial statements tax, before unrealised gains or losses on derivative contracts and are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In determining materiality at 6.1 million, we concluded that as Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records thescaleof the business has not changed, we would apply Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, anappropriately conservative approach and ensure that in our opinion: materialitydid not exceed the materiality set in the prior year.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent theCommittee all audit differences in excess of 0.1 million 2014: company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 0.1 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our received from branches not visited by us: or view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the parent company financial statements are not in agreement the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when with the accounting records and returns.
assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a Directors remuneration reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not in evaluating the results of our work.
been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Financials Drax Group plc 103 Annual report and accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Statement Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys anddisclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance reasonableassurance that the financial statements are free from Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the arerequired to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the annual report is: directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Inaddition, we read all the financial and non-financial information financial statements: or inthe annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially audited financial statements and to identify any information that is inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent thecourse of performing our audit: or with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the otherwise misleading.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the James Leigh, FCA Senior statutory auditor audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated London, UK to the audit committee which we consider should have been 22 February 2016 disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
