80 Financial Statements 80 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of DS Smith Plc OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF DS SMITH PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 April 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 34 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes 1 to 12 to the Company Balance Sheet.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
GOING CONCERN As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 56 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 81 80 Financial Statements Financial Statements 81 Independent Auditors Report to the members of DS Smith Plc OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF DS SMITH PLC OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT In our opinion: The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 April 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Exceptional items have been evaluated as to their nature in order to assess whether their classification the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by Classification and presentation and presentation are in line with the Groups accounting policy and guidance from the Financial the European Union: of exceptional items Reporting Council.
The quantification of such items has been assessed by agreeing to supporting the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and The presentation and consistency of costs and income source documentation.
We have reviewed managements application of the policy for consistency within exceptional items is a key determinant in the with previous accounting periods.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial assessment of the quality of the Groups underlying statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Management judgement is required in We also assessed whether the disclosures within the financial statements in note 4 provide sufficient The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement detail for the reader to understand the nature of these items.
determining whether an item is exceptional.
For the of Financial Position, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 year ended 30 April 2015, the Group incurred exceptional to 34 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes 1 to 12 to the Company Balance Sheet.
The financial reporting framework that has and acquisition related costs of 51 million.
Refer to note been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting 4 for details of the exceptional items in the year.
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
We worked with our tax audit specialists including those in required local jurisdictions to challenge Tax the estimates and judgements made by management when calculating the income tax payable in The value of the tax provisions recorded in respect GOING CONCERN each territory and the associated provisions held.
We reviewed the correspondence with the taxation of a number of uncertain tax positions require authorities in significant locations, as well as reviewing the support or opinions received from external As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement on page 56 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: judgements in respect of the likely outcome of counsel or other advisors where management has utilised such opinions to appraise the likely outcome negotiations with various tax authorities.
Refer to we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and of technical tax treatments and assessing the reasonableness of the provisions made.
note 1 u for managements process for estimating we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as We assessed the assumptions used in the impairment model, specifically the cash flow projections, Carrying value of goodwill, tangible and a going concern.
discount rates and perpetuity growth rates.
Our procedures included challenging forecast cash flows intangible assets and investment balances with reference to historical trading performance, benchmarking assumptions, such as the perpetual The key assumptions used in the assessment of the growth rate and discount rate, to external macro-economic and market data and consulting with our carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets are valuation specialists.
determined with reference to judgemental factors such as the projected cash flows, discount rate and Additionally, we considered the likelihood of change in managements assumptions and assessed perpetuity growth rates.
As at the year end, the Group the sensitivity of managements base case impairment review to a change in the key assumptions held an aggregate of 2,214 million of goodwill, tangible both individually and collectively.
and intangible assets and investments.
Refer to notes 1 i, 10, 11 and 12 for details of these balances.
We evaluated managements assumptions used in calculating the bad debt provision and checked the Adequacy of working capital provisions calculations supporting the amount of provision including testing the integrity of the ageing reports Management judgement is required in determining used as a basis to calculate the provisions.
In order to assess the reasonableness of the provision, we the appropriate level of provision to be held in respect reviewed the ageing of receivables in comparison to previous years, reviewed the level of bad debt of non-recoverable trade receivables and inventories.
write offs in the current year and the prior year and checked the recoverability of outstanding debtors At the year end, the Group held trade receivables through examination of subsequent cash receipts.
of 424 million net of 26 million provision and inventories of 256 million net of 22 million provision.
We assessed the reasonableness of the recorded level of inventory provision with reference to ageing Refer to notes 14 and 15 for details of these balances.
of inventories and the level of inventory written off during the year.
We evaluated the appropriateness of the percentages applied and tested the integrity of the inventory ageing analysis.
We compared the actual sales value of a sample of inventory items to their book value to ascertain that the carrying value of inventories does not exceed their net realisable value.
We evaluated the adequacy of provision for damaged stock during our observation of annual and perpetual inventory counts.
Last year our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year: SCA Packaging acquisition accounting.
The risk of any further fair value adjustments arising since acquisition is no longer considered to be material to the Group financial statements.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 58.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
com 82 Financial Statements 82 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of DS Smith Plc continued OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 12 million 2013 14: 10 million, which is approximately 5% 2013 14: 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
We exclude the effect of exceptional items to provide a stable basis for materiality, as these items are expected to be volatile year on year.
Refer to note 4 for details of exceptional items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 240,000 2013 14: 200,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Audits of all components are performed at a materiality level up to 50% of Group materiality.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at seven components located in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy and Netherlands which was consistent with the prior year.
The component auditors provided an audit clearance to the Senior statutory auditor for each component.
These seven components represent the principal business units within the Groups key reportable segments and accordingly provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
The Group audit team takes an active part in the conduct of the audits at these seven components and follows a programme of planned site visits that is designed to ensure that the Senior statutory auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the full scope components or attends close out meetings.
This year, the Group audit team visited all of the full scope components or attended close out meetings.
These components accounted for 51% of revenue and 52% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
For the remaining locations the component auditor provided reporting to the Senior statutory auditor on the significant risks and material balances.
In line with our programme of rotational visits, senior members of our audit team visited four components located in Denmark, United States, Spain and Slovakia.
These remaining locations accounted for 43% of revenue and 42% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
Where no visits were carried out, the Senior statutory auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team held discussions with the local audit partner in the current year.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of significant risks and material balances.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements 83 82 Financial Statements Financial Statements 83 Independent Auditors Report to the members of DS Smith Plc continued OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION CONTINUED We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably Corporate Governance Statement knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten of our work.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 12 million 2013 14: 10 million, which is approximately 5% 2013 14: 5% of profit before tax and Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report exceptional items.
We exclude the effect of exceptional items to provide a stable basis for materiality, as these items are expected to be volatile year Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: on year.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 240,000 2013 14: 200,000, apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee otherwise misleading.
on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Audits of all components are performed at a materiality level up to 50% of Group materiality.
Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at seven components located in the United Kingdom, France, As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for Germany, Italy and Netherlands which was consistent with the prior year.
The component auditors provided an audit clearance to the Senior statutory being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with auditor for each component.
These seven components represent the principal business units within the Groups key reportable segments and accordingly applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
The Group audit team takes an Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that active part in the conduct of the audits at these seven components and follows a programme of planned site visits that is designed to ensure that the our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review Senior statutory auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the full scope components or attends close out meetings.
team and independent partner reviews.
These components accounted for 51% of revenue This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has and 52% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other For the remaining locations the component auditor provided reporting to the Senior statutory auditor on the significant risks and material balances.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members In line with our programme of rotational visits, senior members of our audit team visited four components located in Denmark, United States, Spain as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Where no visits were carried out, the Senior statutory auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team held discussions with the local audit partner An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the in the current year.
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no policies are appropriate to the Group and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of significant reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we risks and material balances.
read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
In our opinion: Ian Waller FCA the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Senior statutory auditor the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP with the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION London, United Kingdom 24 June 2015 Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
