FINANCIALS Independent Auditors Report Heading TO THE MEMBERS OF DUNELM GROUP PLC The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Report on the financial statements preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and Our opinion IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the In our opinion, Dunelm Group plcs Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance and Parent Company financial statements the financial with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. statements : Our audit approach X give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 4 July 2015 and of the Overview Groups profit and the Groups and the Parent Companys X Overall Group materiality: 6.1m cash flows for the 53 weeks the period then ended: which represents 5% of profit X the Group financial statements have been properly before tax.
Materiality prepared in accordance with International Financial X The Group is structured with Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European one segment that comprises a Union: consolidation of four legal entities.
Audit scope X the Parent Company financial statements have been X We conducted an audit of the properly prepared in accordance with International Financial complete financial information of Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European these four legal entities, together Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of Areas with additional procedures of focus the Companies Act 2006: and performed, including over the X the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Group consolidation.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as X Inventory provisions.
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International What we have audited Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
The financial statements comprise: We designed our audit by determining materiality and X the consolidated and Parent Company statements of assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial financial position as at 4 July 2015: statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors X the consolidated income statement and consolidated made subjective judgements, for example in respect of statement of comprehensive income for the period then significant accounting estimates that involved making ended: assumptions and considering future events that are inherently X the consolidated and Parent Company statements of cash uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of flows for the period then ended: management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that X the consolidated and Parent Company statements of represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
changes in equity for the period then ended: X the accounting policies: and The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and X the notes to the annual financial statements, which include effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial in the Annual Report and Accounts 2015 the Annual Report, statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the rather than in the notes to the annual financial statements.
results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 79 Independent Auditors Report TO THE MEMBERS OF DUNELM GROUP PLC CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Inventory provisions Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 44 We tested the inputs to the provision calculation, including and the critical accounting estimates and judgements in the the classification for example continuity line or discontinued Accounting Policies in the notes to the accounts on page 88. of inventory to reports from the buying department, which is segregated from the finance department, and found them Inventory represents a significant asset on the Groups balance to be consistent.
We also re-performed the weeks cover sheet and is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable calculation, identifying no exceptions.
We challenged the expected realisable value of inventory The NRV provision involves judgement in assessing slow by reference to the historic experience of selling inventory moving or obsolete inventory.
The Group accounting policy at below cost and managements intended plans for future is based upon an analysis of the number of weeks cover of routes of clearance.
We found that the provision rates were inventory i. e. number of weeks sales held in inventory based consistent with the evidence obtained, based on past activity, upon an average of the previous 26 weeks of sales.
are recorded according to the number of weeks cover, type of inventory, certain classifications such as whether inventory is a continuity line or discontinued and managements assessment of the expected realisable value for each category of inventory.
Provisions for new inventory ranges, where historic data is limited, are recorded according to managements expectations of discounting required to achieve sell-through.
How we tailored the audit scope Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on Overall Group 6.1m 2014: 5.8m.
the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the materiality geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
How we 5% of profit before tax.
determined it The Group is structured with one segment.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of four legal entities within Rationale for We have applied this benchmark, a this segment, comprising the Groups operating business and benchmark generally accepted auditing practice, as we centralised functions.
applied believe this is the key measure used by the shareholders in evaluating the performance In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we of the Group.
identified two legal entities: Dunelm Soft Furnishings Limited and Dunelm Group plc, which, in our view, required an audit We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would of their complete financial information due to their financial report to them misstatements identified during our audit significance to the Group.
above 0.05m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
In addition, we also conducted the statutory audits of the remaining two non-significant legal entities such that the audit Going concern work was complete prior to finalisation of the audit of the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Group financial statements, thereby providing further evidence statement, set out on page 77, in relation to going concern.
in support of our Group opinion.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
The audits of these four legal entities, together with the As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have additional procedures performed at the Group level, including concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial over the Group consolidation, gave us the evidence we statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent whole.
Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one Materiality year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As The scope of our audit was influenced by our application part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for the going concern basis is appropriate.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, However, because not all future events or conditions can be timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going statements as a whole.
com Stock code: DNLM 80 FINANCIALS Heading Directors remuneration Other required reporting Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 Consistency of other information opinion Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report In our opinion: to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with X the information given in the Strategic Report and the the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Report for the financial year for which the Other Companies Act 2006 reporting financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report financial statements: and to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors X the information given in the Corporate Governance remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no Statement set out on pages 35 to 41 with respect to exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial Corporate governance statement statements.
"Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement 4""T 6, SFMBOE SFQPSUJOH has not been prepared by the Parent Company."
We have no Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
our opinion: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part X Information in the Annual Report is: of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the materially inconsistent with the information in the Parent Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK audited financial statements: or Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially having performed our review.
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing Responsibilities for the financial our audit: or statements and the audit otherwise misleading.
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors We have no exceptions to report arising from this Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the responsibility.
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied X the statement given by the Directors on page 78, in that they give a true and fair view.
accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Governance Code the Code, that they consider the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with understandable and provides the information necessary the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
for members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Company acquired in the course of performing our Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept responsibility.
or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other X the section of the Annual Report on page 44, as required person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately in writing.
address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: X we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or X adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or X the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 81 Independent Auditors Report TO THE MEMBERS OF DUNELM GROUP PLC CONTINUED What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: X whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: X the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and X the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Smith Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 10 September 2015 dunelm.
