Strategic report Governance Accounts Independent auditors report to the members of easyJet plc What we have audited REPORT ON THE ACCOUNTS The accounts, included within the Annual Report, comprise: Our opinion the Group consolidated and Company statements of financial In our opinion: position as at 30 September 2015: easyJet plcs Group accounts and Company accounts together the Group consolidated income statement and consolidated the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2015 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys the Group consolidated and Company statements of cash flows cash flows for the year then ended: for the year then ended: the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance the Group consolidated and Company statements of changes with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as in equity for the year then ended: and adopted by the European Union: the notes to the accounts, which include a summary of the Company accounts have been properly prepared in significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and The financial reporting framework that has been applied in as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the preparation of the accounts is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company the accounts have been prepared in accordance with the accounts, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards Companies Act 2006. the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our audit approach Context The scope of our audit was tailored to ensure that we performed sufficient work to be able to give an opinion on the accounts as a whole, taking into account the geographic and operational structure of the Group, the accounting systems, processes and controls, and the industry and regulatory environment in which the Group operates.
Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 34 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Audit scope The Group operates through the Company and its trading subsidiaries: and the Group accounts are a consolidation of these entities.
Materiality The accounting for these entities, along with the Group consolidation, is largely centralised in the UK.
Our audit scope comprises an audit of the complete financial information of the trading subsidiaries and the Company.
Audit scope Areas of focus Our areas of focus have not substantively changed from last year and comprised: Aircraft maintenance provisions.
Areas of focus Accruals and other provisions.
Goodwill and landing rights impairment assessment.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect We conducted our audit in accordance with International on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing in order to provide an opinion on the accounts as a whole, and the risks of material misstatement in the accounts.
In particular, any comments we make on the results of our procedures should we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that identified by our audit.
The Audit Committees report on those involved making assumptions and considering future events that matters below that they considered to be significant issues in are inherently uncertain.
relation to the accounts is set out on page 56.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
com 85 Independent auditors report to the members of easyJet plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Aircraft maintenance provisions We evaluated the maintenance provision model and tested The Group operates aircraft which are owned or held under finance the calculations therein.
This included assessing the process by or operating lease arrangements.
Liabilities for maintenance costs are which the variable factors within the provision were estimated, incurred during the term of the lease in respect of aircraft leased under evaluating the reasonableness of the assumptions, testing the operating leases.
These arise from legal and contractual obligations input data and reperforming calculations.
We found no relating to the condition of the aircraft when it is returned to the lessor.
material exceptions from these procedures.
Maintenance provisions of 205 million for aircraft maintenance In particular, we challenged the key assumptions that were costs in respect of aircraft leased under operating leases were based on the Groups internal data, such as business plans and recorded in the accounts at 30 September 2015 refer to notes maintenance contract terms.
We performed sensitivity analysis 1 and 16 to the accounts.
around the key drivers of the model.
We also evaluated the provision and the key assumptions in the light of actual At each balance sheet date, the maintenance provision is calculated utilisation in the year.
We found no material exceptions from using a model that incorporates a number of variable factors and these assessments and comparisons.
assumptions including: likely utilisation of the aircraft: the expected cost of the heavy maintenance check at the time it is expected to occur: Having ascertained the magnitude of movements in those key the condition of the aircraft: and the lifespan of life-limited parts.
assumptions, that either individually or collectively would be required for the provision to be misstated, we considered the We focused on this area because of an inherent level of management likelihood of such movements arising and any impact on the judgement required in calculating the amount of provision needed as overall level of aircraft maintenance provisions recorded in the a result of the complex and subjective elements around these variable accounts.
Our assessment as to likelihood and magnitude did factors and assumptions.
not identify any material exceptions.
Treasury operations We evaluated and assessed the processes, procedures and The Group holds significant net funds, comprising cash and money controls in respect of the Groups treasury and other market deposits and borrowings through bank loans and finance lease management functions which directly impact the relevant obligations.
Given the nature of the business, the Group also makes use account balances and transactions.
We tested managements of derivative financial instruments.
These derivative financial instruments year end account reconciliation process.
The results of this work include foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign allowed us to focus on substantiating the year-end positions currency risks on transactions denominated in US dollars, euros, Swiss recorded in the accounts.
We did not identify any material francs and South African rand.
These transactions primarily affect exceptions from this work.
revenue, fuel and aircraft dry leasing costs, and the carrying value of We independently obtained third-party confirmations from owned aircraft.
The Group also uses jet fuel forward contracts to hedge counterparties of the year end positions.
We assessed the fuel price risks.
appropriateness of hedge accounting for the derivative financial At 30 September 2015, cash and money market deposits amounted instruments and tested, using independent data-feeds, the fair to 939 million, borrowings were 504 million, derivative financial assets values being ascribed to those instruments at the year end.
amounted to 172 million and derivative financial liabilities were 469 These procedures did not identify any material exceptions.
Further details are set out in notes 1, 12, 14, 20, 21 and 22 to We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures in the accounts.
the accounts in respect of both non-derivative and derivative We focused on these balances because of their materiality to financial instruments.
Based on our work, we considered the financial position of the Group, the volume of transactions the disclosures to be appropriate.
passing through the respective accounts and the number of counterparties involved.
Accruals and other provisions We evaluated the systems, processes and controls in place The Group records a number of accrual balances and other over accrual and other provision balances and also assessed provisions which are specific to the business and its operations.
Amongst other testing, At 30 September 2015, the aggregate of all accruals is 310 million we sought evidence of post year end cash and other account refer to notes 1 and 13 to the accounts and the aggregate of movements which provided evidence as to the validity of all other provisions is 21 million refer to notes 1 and 16 to the the accruals and provisions at the year end and we undertook accounts.
Whilst some accruals and other provisions are easily and analytical procedures over the related income statement ordinarily calculated and processed, others contain an element of cost categories.
We found no material exceptions from judgement and are more complex in nature, for example customer these procedures.
claims in respect of flight delays and cancellations and refunds of We tested and challenged the reasonableness of the key air passenger duty or similar charges.
assumptions underlying certain accruals and provisions, which We focused on this area because of an inherent level of complexity included passenger claim history and levels, flight disruptions, in management estimating certain accruals and other provisions as no-show passengers and time periods.
We also tested the a result of the judgements that need to be made.
These types of accruals and provisions input data, reperformed calculations accrual and other provisions were not individually material but may, and performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers, as under certain circumstances, be material in the aggregate.
well as considering the likelihood of material movements to such drivers.
We found no material exceptions from these tests.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 86 Strategic report Governance Accounts Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill and landing rights impairment assessment We evaluated and challenged the future cash flow Goodwill arises from acquisitions in previous years and has an indefinite forecasts of the CGU, and the process by which they expected useful life.
Landing rights which are an intangible asset were drawn up, and tested the underlying value in use are considered by management to have an indefinite useful life as calculations.
In doing this, we compared the forecast to they will remain available for use for the foreseeable future.
the latest strategic plan presented to the Board, along with comparing prior year budget to actual data, as this Goodwill and landing rights are tested for impairment at least annually informed as to the quality of the forecasting process.
at the cash-generating unit CGU level.
The Group has one CGU, The results of our evaluation proved to be satisfactory.
being its route network, to which all goodwill and landing rights relate.
At 30 September 2015, they amounted, in aggregate, to 459 million We also challenged the key assumptions for fuel prices, refer to notes 1 and 8 to the accounts.
exchange rates and long-term growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to economic and industry We focused on this assessment as the impairment test involves a forecasts: and the discount rate by assessing the cost of number of subjective judgements and estimates by management, capital for the Company and comparable organisations.
many of which are forward-looking.
These estimates include key We found no material exceptions from these comparisons assumptions surrounding the strategic plan through to 2020, fuel and assessments.
prices, exchange rates, long-term economic growth rates and discount rates.
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions above to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill and landing rights to be impaired.
We found no material exceptions from this analysis.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed them misstatements identified during our audit above 2 million 2014: 2 million as well as misstatements below that amount enough work to be able to give an opinion on the accounts as a whole, taking into account the geographic and operational that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
structure of the Group, the accounting systems, processes and Going concern controls, and the industry and regulatory environment in which Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors the Group operates.
statement, set out on page 22, in relation to going concern.
The Group operates through the Company and its trading We have nothing to report having performed our review.
subsidiary undertakings as set out on page 121 and the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are also required to report to you accounts are a consolidation of these entities.
The accounting if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to for these entities is largely centralised in the UK and our audit in relation to the Directors statement about whether they scope comprises an audit of their complete financial information.
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in These procedures gave us the evidence that we needed for preparing the accounts.
We have nothing material to add or our opinion on the Groups accounts as a whole.
Materiality As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
basis in preparing the accounts.
The going concern basis These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to presumes that the Group and Company have adequate determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend extent of our audit procedures on the individual account line them to do so, for at least one year from the date the accounts items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the misstatements, both individually and on the accounts as a whole.
Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality However, because not all future events or conditions can be for the accounts as a whole as follows: predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
materiality How we 5% of profit before tax.
determined it Rationale for We applied this benchmark, a generally accepted benchmark auditing practice, in the absence of indicators applied that an alternative benchmark would be more appropriate.
com 87 Independent auditors report to the members of easyJet plc continued OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the accounts are prepared is consistent with the accounts: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Report set out on page 63 with respect to risk management systems and internal control, and about share capital structures, is consistent with the accounts.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited accounts: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on pages 56 and 84, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 We have no exceptions to report.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014 the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 54 to 57, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the We have no exceptions to report.
Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust We have nothing material to assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten add or to draw attention to.
its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are We have nothing material to being managed or mitigated.
add or to draw attention to.
the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects We have nothing material to of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be add or to draw attention to.
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group, set out on pages 62 and 22 respectively.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 88 Strategic report Governance Accounts Adequacy of accounting records and information and What an audit of accounts involves explanations received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to and disclosures in the accounts sufficient to give reasonable you if, in our opinion: assurance that the accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes we have not received all the information and explanations an assessment of: we require for our audit: or whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups adequate accounting records have not been kept by the and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been applied and adequately disclosed: received from branches not visited by us: or the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made the Company accounts and the part of the Directors by the Directors: and Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
the overall presentation of the accounts.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our Directors remuneration own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the accounts.
Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration report to We test and examine information, using sampling and other be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to Companies Act 2006. provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, Other Companies Act 2006 reporting substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the arising from this responsibility.
audited accounts and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Corporate governance statement inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the not been prepared by the Company.
We have no exceptions implications for our report.
to report arising from this responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having JOHN MINARDS performed our review.
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE ACCOUNTS Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors AND THE AUDIT London Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 16 November 2015 As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 84, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the accounts in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
