Independent Auditors Report to the members of Electrocomponents plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Electrocomponents plcs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Electrocomponents plcs financial statements comprise: the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2015: the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2015: the Group Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the Notes to the Group Accounts, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: 3.75 million which represents approximately 5% of profit before tax and one-off pension credit and reorganisation costs.
Materiality We conducted audit work over the complete financial information for six components: UK, US, Germany, France, Italy, and China operations and the Group head office.
The components that are part of our scope as set out above account for Audit scope 78% of group revenues and 77% of group profit before tax and one-off pension credit and reorganisation costs.
We focused on the following areas: Area of focus Inventory obsolescence provision.
com Stock Code: ECM 92 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Financial statements The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We obtained an understanding of the inventory provisioning Inventory obsolescence provision methodology and how it is applied.
Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report, page 123 Note 17 We assessed the completeness of the data used by the system to Inventories and page 102 Basis of Preparation calculate the provision by agreeing the subledger to the general ledger.
The balance of gross inventories at 31 March 2015 was 308.5 million, We recalculated the provision to ensure mathematical accuracy.
We against which a provision of 23.4 million was held.
The valuation of inventory was a focus of our audit for the following We challenged the reasonableness of managements judgement reasons: regarding the obsolescence percentage applied and expected future sales levels by comparing these assumptions to historic write-offs and Electrocomponents business model is based on having a broad historic sales and found the assumptions to be reasonable.
range and delivering products on time, often next day.
This results in large quantities of inventory including many types of product being We tested manual adjustments to the automated calculation by held for long periods of time which raises the risk of obsolescence of understanding the market-specific considerations behind the inventory.
adjustments and whether there was a right of return under the contractual arrangements.
We noted no material exceptions.
There is uncertainty about the impact of technological advances, expiry dates, and future sales levels which require management to make assumptions based on information available at the period end.
The inventory provision is calculated within the Groups accounting systems using an automated process.
Where necessary manual overlays are applied to this provision to account for unusual circumstances that may have arisen during the year.
We involved our teams in the UK, US, France, Germany, Italy and China Tax provisioning who have knowledge of the local tax law, including any updates to, and Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report.
developments in, the application of those laws to understand the extent of any exposure arising from the Groups arrangements and the rationale The Group operates in a number of territories and recognises tax for existing provisions held.
Where relevant we also considered the history provisions based on interpretation of local laws and regulations.
of past experience of the accuracy of the managements estimates of Management are required to make certain judgements in estimating the potential tax exposures, by comparing to actual settlements and found the potential outcome of audits by other jurisdictions, which can extend over current provisioning to be consistent with that experience.
several years and involve varying interpretations of transfer pricing and other regulations.
We reviewed the transfer pricing study performed by the Groups external advisers and noted it to be consistent with the conclusions We focused on the judgements made by management in assessing the reached by our own transfer pricing specialists.
quantification and likelihood of these potential exposures and therefore the level of provisions required against them.
In particular we focused We met with senior management to understand the judgements made on the impact of changes in transfer pricing assumptions, which could with respect to each exposure.
We challenged these estimates based on materially impact the amounts recorded in the financial statements.
our knowledge of changes to tax legislation during the year which could impact the position taken in prior years.
We corroborated managements estimate by obtaining an understanding of the status and outcome of tax audits in the relevant jurisdictions and examining correspondence where material.
Where applicable, we verified that the Group structure and inter-entity transactions were consistent with the explanation provided by management, including examining intercompany charges and performing walkthroughs of certain value-add activities that form the basis for these charges.
We found managements estimates to be reasonable.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 93 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Electrocomponents plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We examined the nature of the hedge relationships that were entered Hedging activities into and whether these were in line with the Groups treasury strategy.
Refer to page 102 Basis of Preparation and page 125 Note 21 For the derivatives entered into during the year we assessed their fair Financial Instruments value through obtaining external confirmations and performing our own calculations.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge currency and interest rate exposures on assets and liabilities in accordance with We checked compliance with specific hedge accounting requirements parameters approved by the Board.
The gross forward exchange contracts for net investment, interest rate, and foreign currency hedging.
were 3.5 million and the gross interest rate swaps were 13.8 million at We considered whether the hedge accounting documentation and 31 March 2015.
In particular the Group hedges the cash flow of inventory, effectiveness rules were met and whether hedge accounting could cash flow of accounts payable, the currency and interest rate profile of its be achieved.
Our work examined the accounting treatment applied external debt and its net investments.
for derivatives, in particular when reclassifying gains and losses from reserves to the income statement and adjustments to the carrying Rules on accounting for derivative instruments are complex and hedge value of the hedged item.
accounting requirements and documentation can be complicated.
Lack of compliance with documentation rules, hedge effectiveness rules, and We also considered the appropriateness of the disclosure of financial probability criteria could lead to income statement volatility.
instruments by agreeing the financial statements to the underlying workings prepared by management and ensuring classification is consistent with the accounting principles.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
The groups accounting process is structured around a local finance function in 23 countries, which report into a centralised Group finance function.
The local finance functions maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the Group finance team through an integrated consolidation system.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined that we needed to conduct audit work over the complete financial information of the UK, US, Germany, France, Italy, and China.
In each country we used PwC component auditors to audit and report on the aggregated financial information of that country.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, under our instruction, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
In the current year the Group team visited all of the component teams to obtain an understanding of the local environment and any audit risks arising.
We directed the work of component teams, reviewed the component team audit files and participated in the closing meetings of the significant components.
As part of our first year audit procedures, we reviewed the predecessor auditors working papers.
The group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and financial statement items accounted for centrally, including goodwill impairment, derivative financial instruments, share based payments, and inventory provisioning were also audited by the group engagement team at the head office.
The components that are part of our audit scope as set out above account for 78% of group revenues and 77% of group profit before tax and exceptional items.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
com Stock Code: ECM 94 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Financial statements Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 3.75 million.
Overall group materiality 5% of profit before tax and one-off pension credit and reorganisation costs of 16 million see note 5.
How we determined it We believe that profit before tax adjusted for one-off items is the key measure used by the shareholders as Rationale for benchmark a body in assessing the groups performance.
We consider that excluding the one-off pension credit and applied reorganisation costs is appropriate as this provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality by eliminating the non-recurring impact of these items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.187 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 56, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or report arising from apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and parent this responsibility.
company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 90, in accordance with Code Provision C. 1.1, that they consider the Annual We have no Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members exceptions to to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the report arising from group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 58 to 64, as required by Code Provision C. 3.8, describing the work of the We have no Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 95 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Electrocomponents plc continued Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 90, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing managements judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 21 May 2015 www.
