INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ELEMENTIS PLC ONLY 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Post retirement benefits $29.0 million 2014: $65.8 million We have audited the financial statements of Elementis plc for the year Refer to page 33 Audit Committee report, page 62 accounting policy ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 58 to 95.
In our opinion: and page 83 financial disclosures.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 The risk Significant estimates are made in valuing the Groups post and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: retirement defined benefit scheme obligation before deducting scheme the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in assets and small changes in assumptions and estimates used would accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as have a significant effect on the financial position of the Group.
adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared Our response Our audit procedures included, with the support of our in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 own actuarial specialists, challenging the key assumptions applied, being Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality life expectancy.
This included the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the a comparison of these key assumptions against externally derived data.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
ofthe sensitivity of the deficit to these assumptions.
Our assessment of risks of material mis-statement Tax asset recoverability $48.2 million 2014: $56.4 million In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks Refer to page 33 Audit Committee report, page 62 accounting policy of material mis-statement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as and page 75 financial disclosures.
follows unchanged from 2014 : The risk The Group has recognised significant tax assets in respect of Environmental provisions $29.5 million 2014: $31.7 million Advance Corporation Tax and UK tax losses.
There is inherent uncertainty Refer to page 33 Audit Committee report, page 62 accounting policy involved in forecasting future taxable profits which support the extent to and page 74 financial disclosures.
which these assets are or are not recognised.
The risk The Group has numerous operating and legacy sites worldwide Our response Our procedures included challenging the basis for key and environmental issues and related legal proceedings is inherent within assumptions within the Groups taxable profit forecasts by performing the chemicals industry.
The amounts involved are significant and future sensitivity analysis on the key drivers of revenue.
We used our own tax cash flows are uncertain whilst the application of accounting standards to specialists to assist us in assessing the recoverability of the Advance determine the amount of liability to recognise or release, if any, for Corporation Tax and tax losses against the forecast future taxable profits, individual issues requires judgement.
taking into account the Groups tax position, the amount and timing of forecast taxable profits, and our knowledge and experience of the Our response Our procedures included correspondence with the application of relevant tax legislation.
We also considered the adequacy of Groups external consultants on the current situation and risks regarding the Groups disclosures in respect of the recognition of these tax assets.
all identified significant environmental issues.
We assessed the consistency of the forecast cash flows used as a basis for the provisions 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope with previous estimates by comparing the most recent actual cash flows ofour audit with the prior year external report.
We compared the discount rate used Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at with external market data.
In addition, we inspected the Group litigation $6 million 2014: $7 million, determined with reference to a benchmark and compliance reports and held discussions with the Groups internal of Group profit before taxation, of which it represents 4.9% 2014: 4.7%.
counsel for all significant issues.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures detailing significant provisions and contingent liabilities We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected adequately disclose the potential liabilities of the Group.
identified mis-statements exceeding $0.3 million 2014: $0.35 million, in addition to other identified mis-statements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 140 2014: 139 reporting components, we subjected 13 2014: 11 to audits for Group reporting purposes and 29 2014: 29 to specified risk focused audit procedures.
The latter were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 55 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ELEMENTIS PLC ONLY CONTINUED 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks ofour audit continued Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following material to add or draw attention to in relation to: percentages of the Groups results: the directors Business viability statement on page 52, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors Number of Group Group profit Group total assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation components revenue before tax assets over the three years to 2018: or Audits for group the disclosures in Note 1 to the financial statements on page 62 reporting purposes 13 93% 89% 85% concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which procedures 29 2% 9% 14% we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based Total 2015 42 95% 99% 99% onthe knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other Total 2014 40 92% 97% 93% information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant mis-statement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved In particular, we are required to report to you if: component materialities, which ranged from $0.4 million to $4.5 million we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we 2014: $0.4 million to $4.5 million, having regard to the mix of size and acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 14 of the consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a 42 in scope components 2014: 9 of the 40 components was performed whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the by component auditors and the rest by the Group team.
The Group team information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised Group and performance, business model and strategy: or profit before tax.
the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Group team visited two 2014: two component locations in the year.
Video and telephone conference meetings were also held with these Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in component auditors and all others that were not physically visited.
At our opinion: these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent discussed in more detail and any further work required by the Group audit company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received team was then performed by the component auditor.
from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 2006 is unmodified accounting records and returns: or In our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been made: or properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and we have not received all the information and explanations we require the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for our audit.
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared isconsistent with the financial statements.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statements, set out on page 52, in relation togoing concern and longer term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 29 and 30 relating to the Companys compliance with the 11 provisions ofthe 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
56 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set outon page 54, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Lynton Richmond Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 1 March 2016 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 57
