142 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Enterprise Inns plc What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Enterprise Inns plc for the year ended 30 September 2015 which comprise: Group Parent company Group balance sheet Company balance sheet Group income statement Group statement of comprehensive income Company statement of comprehensive income Group statement of changes in equity Company statement of changes in equity Group cash flow statement Company cash flow statement Related notes 1 to 33 to the financial statements Related notes 1 to 33 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2015 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group and Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and for the Parent Company as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality Overall Group materiality of 6.0 million 2014: 6.0 million which represents 5% 2014: 5% of preexceptional profit before tax.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of four 2014: four full scope components and performed audit procedures in respect of ten 2014: eight review scope components, four 2014: two of which were established to hold the Groups managed house operations.
The components where we performed full scope audit procedures accounted for over 99% of preexceptional profit before tax, revenue and total assets.
The components subject to review scope audit procedures covered the remainder less than 1% of preexceptional profit before tax, revenue and total assets.
Risks of material Valuation of the estate principally pubs, including assets held for sale, impact of diversifying the business misstatement model and the wider implications of the market rent only MRO option 3.7 billion 2014: 3.9 billion : Goodwill impairment review, including the impact of the new operating segments: Going concern assessment, including compliance with debt covenants and the impact of the partial refinancing of the 2018 600 million corporate bonds and the whole of the forward start facility FSF : and Deferred tax on the valuation of the estate.
indd 142 07 12 2015 17:24:58 24341.02 Proof A concept 11 09 15 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 143 for the year ended 30 September 2015 The scope of an audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing the audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
ISA 320 We determined materiality for the Group to be 6 million Loss before tax 71 m 2014: 6 million, which is 5% 2014: 5% of pre-exceptional profit Starting before tax.
We use pre-exceptional profit before tax as reported by basis the Group to exclude the impact of exceptional items which do not Exceptional items 193m before tax reflect the underlying trading performance of the Group.
This avoids Adjustments inappropriate variations in our materiality as a result of nonPre-exceptional profit before tax 122m recurring items and fluctuations in the carrying value of the estate Materiality of 6m 5% of 122m Materiality which can be significant compared to underlying trading performance.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
ISA 320 On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality should be set at 75% 2014: 50% of materiality, the top end of our range, namely 4.5 million 2014: 3 million : although we reduce our testing threshold in areas of significant risk to appropriately reflect our assessment of risk of material misstatement and focus on the key judgements and estimates.
We have increased our assessment of performance materiality from 50% to 75% as a result of limited historical audit findings in prior years and reflecting the results of our testing of the underlying systems and processes operated by the Group.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
ISA 450 We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.3 million 2014: 0.3 million, which is set at 5% of materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
com Stock code: ETI Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
indd 143 07 12 2015 17:24:58 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder Information ormation Accounts Accounts Go Gov vernance ernance Strategic Report 144 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Enterprise Inns plc Scope of our audit for the year ended 30 September 2015 Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine the audit scope for each component within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each component.
The Group continues to operate from a single office in the UK and has common financial systems, processes and controls covering the vast majority of its operations, other than its managed house operations two of which were established and two of which commenced trading during the current financial year.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 14 2014:12 reporting components of the Group, we selected four 2014: four components, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
These components account for in excess of 99% 2014: virtually 100% of the Groups pre-exceptional profit before tax, revenue and total assets, one being the Parent Company the Company itself, and all of which were subject to full scope audits.
The audits of these entities are performed at a materiality level calculated by reference to a proportion of the Group materiality appropriate to the relevant scale of the business concerned.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 1.7 million 2014: 1.1 million to 3.0 million 2014: 3.0 million.
The financial records for the 4 2014: 2 managed house operations are maintained by third party managers.
In total these entities represent less than 1% of 2014: negligible pre-exceptional profit before tax, revenue and total assets.
These entities have been subject to review scope audit procedures based on performance materiality of 0.5 million.
The remaining 6 2014: 6 components contain no transactions or balances external to the Group and we have validated that all transactions balances eliminate on consolidation.
The audit of all the components within the Group is undertaken by one audit team.
Due to the nature of the main risk areas noted below, the audit team includes tax specialists and is supported by specialists in property valuations and the evaluation of the weighted average cost of capital.
Our assessment of the risks of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
indd 144 07 12 2015 17:24:58 24341.02 Proof A concept 11 09 15 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 145 for the year ended 30 September 2015 What we concluded to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Valuation of the estate principally Having considered the over-riding trading and valuation trends That the valuers, pubs, including assets held for in the UK pub market, together with the specific factors including the new sale, plus the impact of diversifying affecting the Group as noted in column 1, our approach was valuers retained in the business model and the wider to understand and challenge the valuation process adopted, the year, had adopted implications of the market rent only perform detailed testing, conclude on our results and ensure an approach to the MRO option 3.7 billion 2014: 3.9 appropriate disclosures as required under IFRS 13. valuation of the estate billion which was appropriate, We identified, documented and confirmed our understanding consistent, and in Refer to the Audit Committee Report of the controls operated by the Group surrounding the valuation accordance with from page 51 : Accounting policies from process.
page 90 : and note 17 of the Consolidated We performed detailed testing of a sample of assets whereby Financial Statements from page 107 That the result of the individual movements in their asset values were investigated estate valuation was This is the largest estimate within and validated to the individual property valuations.
The whole of suitable for inclusion the financial statements, prepared on the estate is covered by the components subject to full scope in the financial an asset by asset basis.
valuation is performed by a combination In order to select a sample focused on those asset valuations of internal and external appropriately we considered to be most at risk of misstatement, we analysed qualified valuers as described in note features including the trading performance of the individual 17 there remains a risk that, as a result asset, the nature of the rent agreement and managements of individual assets being over or under qualitative grading of assets within the overall estate.
This valued, there is a material error in the analysis which utilised bespoke analytics of the whole estate, valuation of the overall estate such that it sorted by valuer, highlighted those classes of assets, or is not suitable for inclusion in the financial individual assets, where the movement in value was not statements.
The risk of management override in In addition, together with our internal property valuation respect of the valuation has decreased specialists, we met with the Groups internal and external in the year through the decision to valuers to discuss and challenge the method adopted, the increase the extent to which the valuation derivation of the key inputs of fair maintainable trade and has been performed by third party earnings multiple as described in note 17 and the nature and independent valuers such that in the extent of the work they performed in preparing the valuations.
current year the external valuers were We sought explanations for the movement in the value of the responsible for 92% of the valuation estate as a whole, movement in the value of appropriate sub by value 2014: 47% although the divisions of the estate, and where necessary, movement in introduction of new external valuers has the value of individual assets, satisfying ourselves that the increased the risk that the underlying explanations were reasonable and supported by appropriate circumstances of the property may not evidence.
be properly reflected, as a new valuer For valuations by the new valuer see note 17 we tested has less experience of the assets.
a sample of assets with unusual year on year movements, The existence of impending legislation extending similar verfication tests undertaken by management.
surrounding MRO also increases the risk We discussed the nature and extent of the additional disclosures that the valuation may fail to accurately made by the Group in order to address the requirements of IFRS reflect the circumstances of individual 13, including obtaining the views of the internal and external assets.
We made enquiries of the Group and the external As the requirements of IFRS 13 Fair valuers to ensure that the assets highest and best use was Value Measurement were implemented reflected in the assets valuation within property, plant and last year, we consider that the risk of equipment at the year end, or where applicable, immediately incomplete or inappropriate disclosures, prior to transfer to non-current assets held for sale.
or failure to consider the requirement to value assets on a highest and best use basis has diminished in the year.
indd 145 07 12 2015 17:24:59 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder Information ormation Accounts Accounts Go Gov vernance ernance Strategic Report 146 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Enterprise Inns plc What we concluded to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Goodwill impairment review, We identified, documented and confirmed our understanding That the allocation including the impact of the new of the controls operated by the Group surrounding the goodwill of goodwill to operating segments allocation and impairment process.
operating segments was appropriate Refer to the Audit Committee Report We challenged the basis on which goodwill had been allocated and in line with the from page 51 : Accounting policies to operating segments and recalculated the allocation in respect requirements of IAS from page 90 : and note 15 of the of a sample of the assets moved into the new segments 36.
Consolidated Financial Statements established in the year to ensure that the basis adopted had from page 105 been applied correctly.
That the forecasts used were a As discussed in note 15 the Group On a segment by segment basis, we examined the Groups reasonable basis has identified five operating segments forecast cash flows which underpin the goodwill impairment upon which 2014: one.
As a result, a new risk review.
We challenged the reasonableness of those forecasts to prepare the exists in the current year due to the by testing the underlying models, including analysis of the impairment review.
requirement for the Group to allocate underlying assumptions, and by reference to the accuracy goodwill between operating segments of previous forecasts and the historic evidence supporting That the assumptions and test impairment for each segment.
Where forecasts related to newly used for discount formed segments for which no prior year experience existed, rates, although The impairment review of goodwill with we considered their accuracy in respect of actual performance towards the lower a total carrying value of 330 million in the year ended 30 September 2015 and, for commercial end of our view of 2014: 338 million is considered to be property, their consistency with contractual rent agreements.
an acceptable range a risk area due to the reliance of the are consistent with impairment review on the accuracy of The reasonableness of the key assumptions of discount rate comparator groups forecast cash flows, and the sensitivity and long-term growth rate underlying the goodwill impairment and appropriate.
of the review to the key assumptions of review were challenged through a combination of testing the discount rate and long-term growth as Groups detailed calculations, benchmarking the output against That the assumption described in note 15. comparator companies and, in respect of the discount rate for long-term growth assumption, an independent assessment by our specialists was consistent with Whilst the risk surrounding the based on general market indicators.
We also considered comparator groups impairment review has increased in whether any reasonably possible change in these key and appropriate.
the year, due to the requirement to assumptions required disclosure under IAS 36 Impairment of perform the review for each operating That the sensitivity Assets.
segment, it is further increased by the disclosures made by lack of historical trading information for the Group in respect the new segments upon which to base of break even points forecasts.
However, due to the relative for key assumptions size of these segments, the amount were correctly of goodwill allocated to them at 30 established.
September 2015 is relatively small at As a result, we 15 million.
agreed that no Goodwill was included wholly within impairment of that part of the audit subject to full the goodwill was scope procedures.
indd 146 07 12 2015 17:24:59 24341.02 Proof A concept 11 09 15 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 147 for the year ended 30 September 2015 What we concluded to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Going concern assessment, including We identified, documented and confirmed our understanding That we concur with compliance with debt covenants, and of the controls operated by the Group surrounding their the going concern the impact of the partial refinancing assessment of going concern and the recognition of costs assumption used by of the 2018 600m corporate bonds arising as a result of the refinancing.
management in the and the whole of the forward start financial statements.
The Groups forecasts were subject to review, as noted above.
facility FSF That, as reported in We also recalculated the forecast compliance with the terms of Refer to the Audit Committee Report the prior year, the the covenants to which the Group and subsidiaries are subject, from page 51 : Accounting policies FSF refinancing in taking account of the relevant terms of the securitised debt from page 90 : and note 23 of the October 2014 was structure.
Consolidated Financial Statements properly categorised We ensured that the accounting arising as a result of the from page 119 and disclosed as an refinancing, and specifically the treatment of that element of the extinguishment.
The Group has to comply with a range refinancing categorised as an extinguishment established and of covenants in respect of its corporate That as a result of audited in the prior year was correctly reflected in the financial bonds, securitised bonds and bank the refinancing an statements.
borrowings as described in note 23: exceptional finance compliance with which form a key cost of 26 million part of the Groups going concern has been correctly assessment.
all included within the components subject to full scope audits.
The Groups forecast cash flows, discussed above under goodwill, also underpin the going concern assessment.
The judgement that the refinancing of the FSF represented an extinguishment, as established during the 2014 audit, and along with the partial refinancing of the 600 million corporate bond together created a risk that costs arising as a result of the refinancing may be accounted for incorrectly.
indd 147 07 12 2015 17:24:59 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder Information ormation Accounts Accounts Go Gov vernance ernance Strategic Report 148 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Enterprise Inns plc What we concluded to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Deferred tax on the valuation of the We identified, documented and confirmed our understanding of That, the process for estate the controls operated by the Group surrounding the recognition deriving the deferred of deferred tax arising on the valution of the estate.
tax in respect of Refer to the Audit Committee Report the estate held from page 51 : Accounting policies Through the consideration of known and predictable scenarios at valuation has from page 90 : and note 27 of the for a randomly selected sample of assets across the estate, resulted in provisions Consolidated Financial Statements the tax specialists in our team re-performed the calculation which are fairly from page 130 of deferred tax to validate the ability of the model utilised by stated.
the Group to accurately calculate deferred tax on the estate The calculation of the deferred tax valuation.
This ensured that the model has been correctly provision in respect of that element established to apply current tax legislation and enacted tax of the provision associated with the rates.
valuation of the estate is complex, involving the interaction of accounting We also reperformed the overall proof of tax prepared by standards and multiple elements of tax management on a performance statement basis and ensured legislation.
movements in the year were in line with our expectations.
We investigated any unexplained movement.
This element of the deferred tax provision, which totals 177 million 2014: 191 million, has to be calculated in respect of circa 5,000 individual assets using a bespoke tax model.
The deferred tax is wholly within the components subject to full scope audits.
The above risks are the same as in the prior year, unless stated otherwise.
Revenue recognition and the risk of fraud arising from management override of internal controls in other areas of the audit to the matters described above, being significant risks prescribed by ISAs, are not included above, as they were not areas of greatest audit effort.
indd 148 07 12 2015 17:24:59 24341.02 Proof A concept 11 09 15 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 149 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial We have no reporting exceptions to information in the Annual Report and Accounts is: report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report and Accounts appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no reporting exceptions to adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or report.
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no requirements exceptions to the directors statement, set out on page 38, in relation to going concern: and report.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with those provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
indd 149 07 12 2015 17:24:59 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder Information ormation Accounts Accounts Go Gov vernance ernance Strategic Report 150 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Enterprise Inns plc Statement on the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland we are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation in the Annual Report and Accounts that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the Annual Report and Accounts as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 83, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Nigel Meredith Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 16 November 2015 Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
