COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ESSENTRA PLC ONLY Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is unmodified We have audited the Financial Statements of Essentra plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 84 to 137.
In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial Statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows.
Identified Risk Our Response Restructuring liabilities and other provisions included within provisions of 10.8m and accruals and deferred income of 54.1m Refer to page 56 Report of the Audit Committee of the 2015 In respect of warranty provisions, our procedures included Annual Report, page 95 accounting policy and pages 110 to critically assessing the methodology used for calculating the 111 financial disclosures.
This included assessing its appropriateness based on the historical accuracy of the methodology and challenging The risk The Group produces a wide range of products and the approach taken on significant customer complaints operates manufacturing facilities in a number of countries outstanding at year end.
We considered changes in market which results in them being subject to varying laws, conditions, such as new product launches, when determining regulation and customer expectation.
whether the completeness of provisions is accurate.
We discussed with divisional directors the existence of customer Many of the Groups products are used by its customers in complaints or product recalls as at the date of audit and the creating their end product: if quality issues arise the Group impact of local regulations on warranty provisions.
We have may need to make a provision for returns under warranty.
considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect The risk increases for new products or specifications or of warranty provisions.
divisions which may be subject to health and safety regulation.
Measuring these provisions is a significant judgement and is In respect of provisions for business restructuring plans and inherently subjective.
lease obligations, our procedures included holding discussions with divisional and Group directors about the rationale and calculation Additionally, the Group has recognised liabilities and provisions of these provisions and performing detailed procedures to agree in respect of business restructuring plans and lease obligations estimates of expected costs provided for to supporting information that have been put in place during the period, including as a and documentation provided by the Group.
We performed an result of the acquisition of Clondalkin Group.
As at the balance assessment of whether the criteria for recognising provisions in sheet date, the actual outcomes and total cost of implementing respect of these costs had been met at the balance sheet date, restructuring plans and lease exit costs is unknown.
Therefore, including obtaining evidence that there is a restructuring plan the calculation of these provisions is a significant judgement in place before the balance sheet date and this has been and is inherently subjective.
For lease provisions, we reviewed external valuation reports prepared for the Group to Judgement is required to determine if the recognition criteria confirm calculations made by management are appropriate.
for a provision under IAS 37 has been met, including whether a formal plan for the restructuring is in existence and whether We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures regarding the company has raised a valid expectation in those affected provisions and the movements during the year were appropriate, that it will carry out the plan.
including amounts presented as exceptional costs in Note 2 of the Financial Statements.
138 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM Identified Risk Our Response Acquisition accounting included within intangible assets of 691.6m Refer to page 57 Report of the Audit Committee of the 2015 In this area, our audit procedures included assessing the Annual Report, page 92 accounting policy and pages 125 to appropriateness of the value of goodwill and other intangible 126 financial disclosures.
assets recognised based on the consideration transferred less the fair value of tangible assets acquired, as well as whether The risk the Group has completed the significant acquisition other intangibles are separately identifiable.
We assessed the of Clondalkin Group during the year.
As a result, significant recognition of these assets based on expected future cash flows intangible assets and goodwill have been recognised on the by reviewing the appropriateness of assumptions such as discount balance sheet.
The valuation of these assets are based on sales rates, growth and attrition rates.
We challenged the assumptions forecasts, discount rates and other key assumptions which are used by management to determine the fair value adjustments subject to significant judgement.
The assets and liabilities made between acquisition date and balance sheet date with acquired are recognised at their fair value on acquisition date.
reference to external valuations and other supporting The fair value adjustments are also subject to key assumptions documentation where relevant.
based on market data and valuation techniques including discounted cash flows.
We used our own valuation specialists to assist us in critically challenging the key valuation assumptions and methodologies.
This included comparison against industry norms, and consideration of the reasonableness of assumptions underlying the fair value calculation, including comparing revenue growth rates used in the forecasts against local gross domestic product growth rates, and their useful economic lives together with considering what is represented by residual goodwill.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures see Note 8 of the Financial Statements about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks and whether disclosures made are adequate.
Taxation Liabilities of 26.8m Refer to page 56 Report of the Audit Committee of the 2015 In this area our audit procedures included the use of our own Annual Report, page 93 accounting policy and page 102 international and local tax specialists to assess the groups tax financial disclosures.
positions, its correspondence with the relevant tax authorities, and to analyse and challenge the assumptions used to determine The risk Accruals for tax contingencies require the directors tax provisions based on our knowledge and experiences of the to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and application of the international and local legislation by the relevant exposures due to the Group operating in a number of different authorities and courts.
We have considered the adequacy of the tax jurisdictions and the complexities of transfer pricing and Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was set at 7.2 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation adjusted for exceptional items of 129.5 million which represents 5.6%.
We report to the audit committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.35 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Audits for Group reporting purposes or specified audit procedures were performed by component auditors at the reporting components in the following countries: Audits for Group reporting purposes Specified risk-focussed audit procedures United Kingdom 8 sites United States of America 8 sites Ireland 3 sites Singapore 2 sites Indonesia 1 site Poland 1 site Thailand 1 site Italy 2 sites Hungary 1 site Germany 2 sites India 1 site Dubai 1 site China 1 site Sweden 1 site We conducted reviews of financial information including enquiry at a further 19 non-significant components because these components were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
These Group procedures covered: Group revenue Group profit before taxation Group net assets 3% 37% 22% 28% 51% 60% 51% 27% 21% Audits for Group reporting purposes Audits for Group reporting purposes Audits for Group reporting purposes specified risk focussed audit procedures specified risk focussed audit procedures specified risk focussed audit procedures Out of Scope Out of Scope Out of Scope The remaining 28% of Group revenue, 3% of Group profit before tax and 22% of Group net assets is represented by 85 components around the world.
None of the 85 components represented more than 2.4% of total Group Revenue, 4.4% of Group profit before tax, or 2.6% of Group net assets.
For these components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.1m to 2.7m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
140 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM The Group audit team visited four locations in the United Kingdom.
Telephone meetings were also held with the component auditors at all locations and the Group audit team attended all component auditors clearance meetings at the year end.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 48 to 54 in the 2015 Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial Statements.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors statement of viability on page 82, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing operation over the 3 years to 31 December 2018: or the disclosures in Note a of the accounting policies on page 90 of the Financial Statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Financial Statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors Statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 82 of the 2015 Annual Report, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 48 to 54 of the 2015 Annual Report, relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 83 of the 2015 Annual Report, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of Financial Statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to Essentra plcs members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Stephen Wardell Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 19 February 2016 142
