70 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Audit scope RePoRT oN The FiNANCiAl sTATemeNTs We conducted work in five key territories, being the UK, US, Canada, ouR oPiNioN Australia and India.
This included full scope audits at five components In our opinion: with specified procedures performed at a further five components.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLCs group financial statements Taken together, the components at which audit work has been performed and company financial statements the financial statements give a accounted for approximately 78% of the groups revenue, 81% of the true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys groups statutory profit before tax and 73% of the groups profit before affairs as at September 30 2015 and of the groups profit and cash tax, adding back certain non-recurring items.
flows for the year then ended: Areas of focus the group financial statements have been properly prepared in Accounting for acquisitions and disposals accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangibles as adopted by the European Union: Uncertain tax positions the company financial statements have been properly prepared in Share-based payments accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the group and company financial statements.
WhAT We hAVe AudiTed In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates the Annual Report, comprise: that involved making assumptions and considering future events that the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at September 30 are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the 2015: risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating the Company Balance Sheet as at September 30 2015: whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of a risk of material misstatement due to fraud, and the risk of fraud in Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: revenue recognition.
Procedures designed to address these risks included the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: testing of material journal entries and post-close adjustments, testing and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then evaluating managements key accounting estimates for reasonableness ended: and and consistency, understanding and testing management incentive plans, the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of undertaking cut-off procedures to ensure proper cut-off of revenue and significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
expenses and testing the existence and accuracy of revenue transactions.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation In light of this being our first year audit of the group, we also performed of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted specific procedures over opening balances by shadowing the prior year by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has audit undertaken by the previous auditors, reviewing the predecessor been applied in the preparation of the company financial statements auditor working papers in the UK and in each of the groups significant is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United territories and considering the key management judgements in the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
opening balance sheet at October 1 2014.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our ouR AudiT APPRoACh audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified Overview as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored Materiality our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on Overall group materiality: 4.3m which represents 5% of profit before the group and company financial statements as a whole.
Any comments tax, adding back certain non-recurring items.
we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts iNdePeNdeNt Auditors rePort Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 Areas of focus how our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for acquisitions and disposals We obtained an understanding of the Dealogic transaction to verify that Refer to the audit committee report on pages 41 and 42 and to notes 13 it had commercial substance.
and 14 in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We obtained the calculation of the profit on disposal of Capital NET The group continues to undertake material transactions with complex and Capital DATA.
We agreed that the valuation of the Dealogic shares accounting implications.
We focused on the two transactions in the year that had the biggest impact on the consolidated income statement as contributed as part consideration for the investments in Capital NET and Capital DATA was comparable to the price paid to acquire the majority follows: stake.
We considered the requirements of IAS 28 in circumstances Dealogic transaction where a non-monetary asset is exchanged for an equity interest in a In December 2014, the group sold its investment in Capital NET and new associate and the requirement to restrict any profit on disposal Capital DATA for combined consideration of 54.2m, comprising 2.9m in proportion to the new equity stake obtained.
We re-computed of cash, 13.5m of redeemable preference shares and a 15.5% minority managements calculation for the element of profit restricted of 5.9m stake in Diamond TopCo Limited Dealogic valued at 37.8m together with reference to the signed sale and purchase agreements and the the Dealogic transaction.
groups equity stake in Dealogic.
We focused on the key accounting judgements taken by management in We challenged management on the classification of the 15.5% relation to this transaction, namely: equity stake in Dealogic as an associate and the extent to which the group is able to exert significant influence.
We agreed the key terms That the disposal and subsequent acquisition had commercial of the transaction to the shareholders agreement and articles of substance, meaning that a gain on disposal should be recognised, association, including shareholder voting rights of 20% and how these restricted in proportion to the 15.5% stake acquired in accordance are enforceable, confirmed these facts with the companys external with IAS 28: legal counsel and validated managements attendance and exercise of That the investment in Dealogic should be accounted for as an significant influence at board meetings.
associate on the basis of the group having significant influence: and The calculation of the 48.4m profit on disposal of Capital NET and Based on the procedures performed, we determined that the accounting Capital DATA.
for the Dealogic transaction, including the calculation of the profit on disposal, was appropriate and in line with the requirements of IAS 28.
Given the material and non-recurring nature of this transaction, we are satisfied that classification of the profit on disposal as an exceptional item is appropriate.
Centre for Investor Education CIE In April 2013, the group acquired a 75% equity interest in CIE with a put We engaged with management and with the groups external legal counsel through our half year and year-end procedures to understand and call option over the remaining 25% stake.
During the year, the group the sequence of events at CIE and the latest position at year-end, identified a number of governance and financial irregularities at CIE. As a including the commencement of legal proceedings in October 2015. result of these irregularities, a number of judgemental adjustments were made by management, namely: We obtained managements goodwill impairment calculation which was revised to reflect the latest expectations of future performance and taking To impair the groups acquired goodwill by 2.9m, leaving a remaining account of the impact of public announcements relating to the business.
balance relating to CIE of 2.0m: and To reverse the 3.5m acquisition commitment held at October 1 2014 Deploying our valuations specialists, we tested the reasonableness of the key assumptions including cash flow forecasts, terminal value and relating to the put and call option over the remaining 25% equity discount rates, taking account of the re-based business plan since the stake and to derecognise the non-controlling interest in equity on the minority shareholders were exited from business.
basis that payments already made by the company have fully settled all contractual obligations to the non-controlling shareholders.
As a We considered the timing of the impairment and the reversal of the result, the consolidated financial statements reflect no non-controlling acquisition commitment being recorded in the financial year ended interest NCI ownership of CIE at September 30 2015 although 25% September 30 2015. of the shares remain legally held by the NCI investors.
Through our discussions with the groups external legal counsel, we We focused on this area as the eventual outcome of this matter is uncertain assessed the reasonableness of managements judgement that there is pending conclusion of ongoing legal proceedings and the positions no further liability to the non-controlling shareholders in respect of the taken by management are based on material judgements.
Accordingly, acquisition of the remaining 25% shareholding given amounts already unexpected adverse outcomes could impact the groups reported profit paid for the groups 75% equity stake.
and financial position relating to CIE. We found that the judgements made by management were reasonable and that the disclosures made in respect of these adjustments were appropriate given the evidence we obtained.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 72 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC continued Areas of focus how our audit addressed the area of focus carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangibles Deploying our valuations specialists, we obtained managements Refer to the audit committee report on page 42 and to note 11 in the goodwill impairment model and tested the reasonableness of key Consolidated Financial Statements.
assumptions, including profit and cash flow growth, terminal values and The group has 523.8m of goodwill and intangible assets, including the selection of discount rates.
We agreed the underlying cash flows to 141.8m of acquired intangibles and 382.0m of goodwill at September board approved budgets and assessed how these budgets are compiled.
We assessed the terminal growth rate and discount rate applied to each CGU by comparison to third party information, past performance, During the year, the group recognised an 18.5m impairment charge in the groups cost of capital and relevant risk factors.
We performed relation to goodwill for CIE 2.9m, HedgeFund Intelligence HFI 4.8m our own risk assessment by considering historical performance, and Mining Indaba 10.7m.
forecasting accuracy and modelled headroom to highlight the CGUs The carrying values of goodwill and intangibles are contingent on future with either a lower headroom or which are more sensitive to changes cash flows of the underlying cash generating units CGU and there is in key assumptions.
We focused our attention on those businesses a risk that if these cash flows do not meet managements expectations where headroom has decreased or where management has identified that the assets will be impaired.
This risk is increased in periods in which impairments, namely CIE, HFI, Mining Indaba and NDR.
the groups trading performance does not meet expectations.
The cash We performed our own sensitivity analysis to understand the impact of flow forecasts and related value in use calculations include a number reasonable changes in the assumptions on the available headroom.
We of significant judgements and estimates including profit growth, cash focused in particular on NDR which is more sensitive to change than conversion, terminal growth rate and discount rate.
Changes in these other CGUs.
We considered the need for additional sensitivity disclosures assumptions have a significant impact on the headroom available in the for this CGU as required by lAS 36 and we agree with managements impairment calculations.
decision to provide these additional disclosures for NDR in note 11 given that reasonably possible changes in the assumptions would give rise to an impairment.
We checked for any additional impairment triggers in any other businesses through discussions with management, review of management accounts and board minutes and examining performance of recent acquisitions to identify under-performing businesses.
As a result of our work, we determined that the impairment charge recognised in 2015 was appropriate.
For those intangible assets, including goodwill, where management determined that no impairment was required and that no additional sensitivity disclosures should be given, we found that these judgements were supported by reasonable assumptions that would require significant downside changes before any additional material impairment was necessary.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts iNdePeNdeNt Auditors rePort Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73 Areas of focus how our audit addressed the area of focus uncertain tax positions Refer to the audit committee report on page 42 and to note 8 in the Deploying our tax specialists, we evaluated and challenged managements Consolidated Financial Statements.
judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order to assess the adequacy of the groups tax provisions.
The group operates in a complex multinational tax environment and there In understanding and evaluating managements judgements, we are open tax matters with the tax authorities, especially in the US and considered third party tax advice received by the group, the status of Canada.
In addition, from time to time the group enters into transactions recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries, the outturn of with complicated accounting and tax consequences, including the previous claims, judgemental positions taken in tax returns and current Dealogic transaction.
Judgement is required in assessing the level of year estimates and developments in the tax environment.
provisions needed in respect of uncertain tax positions.
In light of this being our first year audit of the group, we undertook an independent assessment of tax risks, including permanent establishment risks, in the groups most material markets UK, US and Canada and we have evaluated the appropriateness and completeness of related tax provisions.
From the evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the Consolidated Financial Statements taken as a whole.
However, we noted that the assumptions and judgements that are required to formulate the provisions mean that the range of possible outturns is broad.
share-based payments We challenged management and the directors on forecast trading Refer to the audit committee report on page 42 and to note 23 in the performance through September 30 2017.
We considered past Consolidated Financial Statements.
performance and current trading and applied this experience to the The company operates a number of share-based payment schemes, forecast results.
the most significant of which is the Capital Appreciation Plan CAP for We agree with managements judgement to reverse the CAP 2014 executives.
charge that was originally booked in the year ended September 30 2014 The accounting for share-based payment arrangements requires and the appropriateness of the related disclosures in the Annual Report judgement to be exercised in determining the fair value of the awards at and Accounts.
the date of grant and, where the scheme is treated as cash settled, the value of the liability recognised on the balance sheet at each period end which may be based on expectations of future financial performance.
The Capital Appreciation Plan 2014 CAP 2014 was approved by shareholders in January 2014.
The primary performance test under CAP 2014 requires the group to achieve an adjusted profit before tax of 178m adjusted for the acquisition of Mining Indaba by 2017.
We have focused our attention on the key judgement taken in the year to reverse the cumulative CAP 2014 charge of 2.5m on the basis that the performance of the business is not expected to meet this performance test.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 74 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC continued We performed specified procedures at Ned Davis Research, Inc. and hoW We TAiloRed The AudiT sCoPe Information Management Network LLC over revenue and receivables We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough including material accrued and deferred revenue balances, ISI India work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, over cash, Tipall Limited over fixed assets and Euromoney Institutional taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting Investor PLC over cash and other receivables.
This ensured that sufficient processes and controls and the industry in which the group operates.
and appropriate audit procedures were performed and sufficient audit The Consolidated Financial Statements are a consolidation of 176 coverage was achieved in respect of these areas.
reporting units, each of which is considered to be a component.
We In light of this being a first year audit, we visited our component teams in identified four reporting units in the US, Canada and UK that required an the US and Canada at both the half year and year-end, which included file audit of their complete financial information due to size.
We identified one reviews and attendance at key audit meetings with local management.
further reporting unit in Australia that required an audit of its complete We also had regular dialogue with component teams in Australia and financial information due to risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures India throughout the year.
over significant balances and transactions were performed at a further five reporting units in the US, UK and India to give appropriate audit The group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and corporate coverage.
None of the reporting units not included in our group audit functions were audited by the group audit team.
This included our work scope individually contributed more than 3% to consolidated revenue or over goodwill and intangible assets, acquisitions and disposals, treasury, 5% to profit before tax.
post-retirement benefits, share-based payments and tax.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined Taken together, the components and corporate functions where we the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by conducted audit procedures accounted for approximately 78% of the us, as the group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC groups revenue, 81% of the groups statutory profit before tax and 73% UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
of the groups profit before tax, adding back certain non-recurring items.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined This provided the evidence we needed for our opinion on the consolidated the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those financial statements taken as a whole.
This was before considering the reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate contribution to our audit evidence from performing audit work at the audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group level, including disaggregated analytical review procedures, which consolidated financial statements as a whole.
covers certain of the groups smaller and lower risk components that were not directly included in our group audit scope.
We performed full scope audits in respect of Euromoney Trading Limited, Euromoney Global Limited, BCA Research, Inc. and Institutional Investor Materiality LLC which, in our view, were financially significant and required an audit The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
of their complete financial information due to their size.
In light of the We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together financial and governance irregularities identified by management at the with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our Centre for Investor Education Limited during the year, we accelerated the audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the statutory audit to align with the group audit timetable and included this individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating entity within our overall scope as a fifth full scope audit.
the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts iNdePeNdeNt Auditors rePort Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75 Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: overall group materiality 4.3m how we determined it 5% of profit before tax 123.3m, adjusted for non-recurring items, comprising: goodwill impairment 18.5m : profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4.2m : profit on disposal of associate 2.9m : profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment 45.5m : profit on disposal of business 2.4m : restructuring and other exceptional costs 3.2m : and long-term incentive credit 2.5m.
rationale for benchmark applied The groups principal measure of earnings comprises adjusted operating profit, which adds back to statutory profit a number of items of income and expenditure including those detailed above.
Management uses this measure as it believes that it eliminates the volatility inherent in non-recurring items.
We have taken this measure into account in determining our materiality, except that we have not adjusted profit before tax to add back amortisation of acquired intangible assets as in our view this is a recurring item which does not introduce volatility to the groups earnings.
component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocate materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 97,500 and 3,870,000.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them As noted in the Directors Statement, the directors have concluded that it misstatements identified during our audit above 200,000 as well as is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the group has for qualitative reasons.
adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements Going concern were signed.
As part of our audit, we have concluded that the directors Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Statement, set out on page 33, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee of the groups ability to continue Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are also required to report to you if we as a going concern.
have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors Statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 76 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC continued oTheR RequiRed RePoRTiNg CoNsisTeNCy oF oTheR iNFoRmATioN Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
isAs uK & ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report.
Information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors on page 35, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions to report.
Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups and companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 40 and 41, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions to report.
the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
The diReCToRs AssessmeNT oF The PRosPeCTs oF The gRouP ANd oF The PRiNCiPAl Risks ThAT Would ThReATeN The solVeNCy oR liquidiTy oF The gRouP Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation in the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that We have nothing material to add or to they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that draw attention to.
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing material to add or to or mitigated.
the directors explanation in the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as We have nothing material to add or to to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why draw attention to.
they consider that period to be appropriate and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group, set out on page 21.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements, checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Group accounts iNdePeNdeNt Auditors rePort Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77 This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the AdequACy oF ACCouNTiNg ReCoRds ANd iNFoRmATioN ANd exPlANATioNs ReCeiVed companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or our opinion: to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands we have not received all the information and explanations we require it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or WhAT AN AudiT oF FiNANCiAl sTATemeNTs returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches iNVolVes not visited by us: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures the company financial statements and the part of the Directors in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused accounting records and returns.
This includes an assessment of: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and diReCToRs RemuNeRATioN adequately disclosed: Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the opinion directors: and In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the overall presentation of the financial statements.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, Other Companies Act 2006 reporting and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis responsibilities.
for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of the In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently performed our review.
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we ResPoNsibiliTies FoR The FiNANCiAl sTATemeNTs become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies ANd The AudiT we consider the implications for our report.
ouR ResPoNsibiliTies ANd Those oF The diReCToRs giles hANNAm seNioR sTATuToRy AudiToR As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out for and on behalf of  LLP on page 35, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
London, United Kingdom December 14 2015 Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
