com Independent Auditors Report to the Members of EVRAZ plc We present our audit report on the Group and Company financial statements as defined below of EVRAZ plc, which comprise the Group Primary statements and related notes set out on pages 161 to 239 and the Company Primary statements and related notes set out on pages 240 to 249.
Opinion on the Financial Statements In our opinion EVRAZ plcs financial statements the Financial Statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Group and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups loss and Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited We have audited the Primary Statements and related notes of EVRAZ plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise: Group Company the Consolidated Statement of Operations, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Separate Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position the Separate Statement of Financial Position: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: the Separate Statement of Cash Flows: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity: and the Separate Statement of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 34. the related notes 1 to 8.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of both the Group and Company Financial Statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Overview 1 Materiality Overall Group materiality of $37.8 million which represents approximately 2.7% of adjusted EBITDA.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of five components and audit procedures on specific balances, where we consider the risk of material misstatement to be higher, for a further 10 components.
The 15 reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 77% of the Groups adjusted EBITDA and 92% of the Groups revenue of which 60% and 74% of these metrics were covered by full scope components.
For the remaining 45 reporting components in the Group we have performed other procedures appropriate to respond to the risk of material misstatement.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the Group which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Areas of focus Goodwill and non-current asset impairment Going concern Completeness of related party transactions Accounting treatment of Praxair contract What has Changes in our scope since the 2014 audit included removal of Highveld Steel & Vanadium from the audit scope due to the loss of control by the changed Group over the entity in April 2015.
The focus on the impact of foreign exchange movements, segmental reporting and risks associated with political disturbances reduced this year and have therefore not been included in our opinion.
The accounting treatment of a contract with Praxair is a new area of focus for the current year.
We increased our focus on completeness of related party transactions due to an omission relating to the prior year identified in the current year.
1 Managements EBITDA in the annual report does not include social and social infrastructure maintenance expenses.
These expenses have been included in adjusted EBITDA used for our calculation of materiality as they are incurred every year.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 153 Financial Statements Our assessment of focus areas We identified the following risks that had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
This is not a complete list of all the risks identified in our audit.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Details of why we identified these issues as areas of focus and our audit response are set out in the table on pages 153 to 155.
This is not a complete list of all the procedures we performed in respect of these areas.
The arrows in the table indicate whether we consider the financial statement risk associated with this focus area to have increased, decreased or stayed the same compared to 2014.
Changes from the prior year Our audit approach and assessment of areas of focus changes in response to changes in circumstances affecting the EVRAZ business and impacting the Group financial statements.
Since the 2014 audit we have made the following changes to our areas of focus: During the year ended 31 December 2015 foreign exchange fluctuations were less than during the prior year.
This has therefore been less of a focus area of our audit.
We have also excluded segmental reporting as a key focus area as there were no changes in reportable segments in the current year.
The current economic and geopolitical situation continues to be relevant to our audit approach but the issue is no longer new and therefore does not require a new audit testing strategy to be formulated.
This has led us to a decreased focus on this area.
The accounting treatment of a Praxair contract is a new area of focus for the current year in response to the potential impact on the Groups Financial Statements.
We have also included completeness of related party transactions as a new focus area in response to an omitted transaction in the prior period identified by management, the risk that this might not be an isolated incident and investor focus on this area.
What we reported to Area of focus Our audit approach the Audit Committee Goodwill and non-current asset impairment Risk direction: Refer to the Group Audit Committee report on page 121, the estimates and judgments on page 172 and the disclosures of impairment in note 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements At 31 December 2015 the carrying value of goodwill was We performed audit procedures on all impairment models relating to We consider US$1,176 million 2014: US$1,541 million.
The Group material cash generating units.
Our audit procedures were performed the accuracy of recognised impairment charges in respect of goodwill, other mainly by the Group audit team with the exception of certain location managements intangible assets and items of PP&E during the year of US$441 specific inputs to managements models which were assessed by the estimates to have million 2014: US$539 million.
been reasonable for the current year In accordance with IAS 36 management disclosed that in Our audit procedures included the verification of managements assumptions with assumptions addition to the impairment charge already recognised a used in their impairment models.
The assumptions to which the models were within an acceptable reasonably possible change in discount rates, sales prices, sales most sensitive and most likely to lead to further impairments were: range.
Management volumes and cost control measures could lead to impairments in Decreases in steel prices: have also reflected other CGUs where no impairment is currently recognised.
Increases in production costs and known changes in the Discount rates.
circumstances of each We focused on this area due to the significance of the carrying CGU in their forecasts value of the assets being assessed, the number and size of We corroborated managements assumptions with reference to historical for forthcoming periods.
recent impairments, the current economic environment in the data and, where applicable, external benchmarks noting the assumptions Groups operating jurisdictions and because the assessment used fell within an acceptable range.
We concluded that the of the recoverable amount of the Groups Cash Generating related disclosures We tested the integrity of models with the assistance of our own specialists Units CGUs involves significant judgements about the future provided in the Group and carried out audit procedures on managements sensitivity calculations.
results of the business and the discount rates applied to future Financial Statements cash flow forecasts.
We assessed the historical accuracy of managements budgets and forecasts, and sought appropriate evidence for any anticipated In particular we focused our effort on those CGUs with improvements in major assumptions such as production volumes or cost the largest carrying values, those for which an impairment reductions.
We corroborated previous forecasts with actual data.
had been recognised in the year and those with the lowest headroom.
We tested the appropriateness of the related disclosures provided in the Group Financial Statements.
In particular we tested the completeness of the disclosures regarding those CGUs with material goodwill balances and where a reasonably possible change in certain variables could lead to impairment charges.
com Our assessment of focus areas continued What we reported to Area of focus Our audit approach the Audit Committee Going concern Risk direction: Refer to the Group Audit Committee report on page 120, the Directors report on page 143 and within significant accounting policies on page 170 of the Consolidated Financial Statements The Group is highly geared net debt at 31 December 2015 Since managements going concern model and analysis are prepared Based on our work US$5,349 million, 2014 US$5,814 million, has regular debt centrally, audit procedures on this area were performed directly by the on the going concern repayments and a number of restrictive covenants over a Group team.
Covenant compliance testing was split between the Group and analysis prepared proportion of its debt.
by management we agree with the Management and the Board prepare a cash flow forecast and We discussed the detailed cash flow forecasts prepared by management in conclusion reached undertake sensitivity analysis Base and Pessimistic case of their model.
The main procedures performed on the model and areas where by management that the key assumptions to verify that the Group can operate as a we challenged management were as follows: it is appropriate to going concern for at least 12 months from the date the financial We have tested the quality of management forecasting by comparing prepare the financial statements are approved.
cash flow forecasts for prior periods to actual outcomes: statements on a going We verified the consistency of forecasts used in the going concern concern basis and that We consider the level of risk in relation to Going Concern to assessment with those used for impairment calculations: the related disclosures have increased due to the increased risk of non-compliance We tested the appropriateness of the assumptions that had the most are appropriate.
with restrictive covenants relating to EBITDA.
In challenging these assumptions we took account of actual results, external data and market conditions: We tested the arithmetic integrity of the calculations including those related to managements sensitivities.
We also performed our own sensitivity calculations to test the adequacy of the available headroom and, in particular, covenant compliance.
We agreed the sources of liquidity and uses of funds to supporting documentation.
We tested the appropriateness of the disclosures made in the Group Financial Statements in respect of going concern.
Accounting treatment of a contract with Praxair Risk direction: Refer to the Group Audit Committee report on page 121 and the estimates and judgements on page 171 of the Consolidated Financial Statements In December 2010 EVRAZ Nizhny Tagil Metallurgical Plant As part of our procedures to determine whether the arrangement represents Based on our NTMK signed an agreement with Praxair Rus under which an embedded lease in accordance with IFRIC 4 we have focused on the procedures we Praxair will construct, operate, own and maintain an air significance of the percentage of output from the air separation unit conclude that the separation unit.
Once the construction is completed, NTMK supplied to third parties and the potential for future changes in this accounting treatment will purchase agreed quantities of oxygen and other gases percentage over the life of the equipment.
and related disclosures for its production requirements for a period of 25 years.
The provided in the Group We received confirmation directly from Praxair on the quantity of gas committed expenditure over the life of the contract is US$515 Financial Statements to supplied to third parties in 2015 approximately 8-9% in the last quarter of million.
The contract was commenced following the completion be appropriate.
2015 and their intention to increase supplies to third parties in 2016 and of construction of the unit in June 2015. beyond.
In June 2015 the terms of the contract were finalised and We recalculated the amount of gas available for supply to third parties management analysed the revised terms and concluded that this based on Praxairs energy usage data.
contract does not contain an embedded lease within the scope of IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
We examined the disclosure in the annual Consolidated Financial Statements for its appropriateness and completeness.
In reaching this conclusion on the accounting treatment of the contract management considered the capacity of the plant and that amounts of the oxygen and other gases Praxair would sell to third parties would be more than insignificant.
We focused on this area because of the potential financial impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements and the potential impact on covenant compliance in particular certain financial ratios Net debt EBITDA, Total debt EBITDA.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 155 Financial Statements Our assessment of focus areas continued What we reported to Area of focus Our audit approach the Audit Committee Completeness of related party transactions Risk direction: Refer to the Group Audit Committee report on page 121 and note 16 of the Consolidated Financial Statements At the end of 2015, management discovered historic At both a component team and group level, we have understood and tested Based on our transactions with a company controlled by a key management managements process for identifying related parties and recording related procedures performed person had been erroneously omitted from the prior years party transactions.
We have tested managements controls in relation to the we consider the related disclosures of related party transactions in the annual financial assessment and approval of related party transactions.
provided in the Group We verified transactions with the previously undisclosed related party Financial Statements to Although the error itself was not material we considered, identified by management to determine if transactions with this entity be appropriate.
given regulatory and investor interest in this area coupled were complete.
At the component at which the undisclosed transactions with the risk that this might not be an isolated incident, our had been identified by management we performed a search of other audit risk had increased.
We therefore reassessed the risk of counterparties and suppliers for any further companies that might be completeness of related party transactions as significant.
related to the undisclosed entities.
We investigated those entities with similar names to the undisclosed company or those that appeared to have a We consider the increased risk to be limited to the Russian tax code linkage.
entities within the Group where external business interests, especially in relation to local product suppliers, are more We assessed managements evaluation that the transactions are on an common amongst members of key management.
arms length basis by reviewing a sample of agreements and comparing the related party transaction price to those quoted by comparable companies.
Previously undisclosed related parties have been included in this sample.
Across the rest of the Russian components we paid special attention to unusual or high value transactions with unknown counterparties.
We randomly selected a sample of key management personnel and ran a search for any companies controlled by those individuals the search was performed via an independent register of all companies based in the CIS and their directors or shareholders.
We compared the results of the research made with the list of entities included in related party listing provided to us by management and investigated the differences between the listings.
com Our application of materiality The scope of our work is influenced by materiality.
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
As we develop our audit strategy, we determine materiality at the overall level and at the individual account level referred to as our performance materiality.
Materiality Performance materiality Reporting threshold $1.9 $37.8 million $18.9 million million Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the Financial Statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $37.8 million 2014: $62.8 million, which is set at approximately 2.7% 2014: 2.7% of adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA used for our materiality calculation was consistent with the definition of EBITDA used last year and did not have social and charitable expenditure removed.
These expenses have been included in our calculation for materiality purposes because these are costs that are incurred every year.
Our materiality amount provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature and extent of further audit procedures.
Materiality is assessed on both quantitative and qualitative grounds.
With respect to disclosure and presentational matters, amounts in excess of the quantitative thresholds above may not be adjusted if their effect is not considered to be material on a qualitative basis.
How we determined materiality: EBITDA of US$1,438 million as included in the Annual report Starting basis Inclusion of social and social infrastructure maintenance expenses of US$28 milllion as included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations to determine adjusted EBITDA Adjustment Take 2.7% of the adjusted EBITDA Materiality Rationale for basis We have used an earnings based measure as our basis of materiality.
It was considered inappropriate to calculate materiality using group profit or loss before tax due to the historic volatility of this metric.
EBITDA is a key performance indicator for the Group and is also a key metric used by the Group in the assessment of the performance of management.
We also noted that market and analyst commentary on the performance of the Group uses EBITDA as a key metric.
We therefore, considered EBITDA, adjusted for social and social infrastructure maintenance expenses, to be the most appropriate performance metric on which to base our materiality calculation as we considered that to be the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 157 Financial Statements Our application of materiality continued Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that given the number and monetary amounts of individual misstatements corrected and uncorrected identified in prior periods as well as the nature of the misstatements, overall performance materiality for the Group should be 50% 2014: 50% of materiality, namely $18.9 million 2014: $31.4 million.
Audit work on individual components is undertaken using a percentage of our total performance materiality.
This percentage is based on the size of the component relative to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year the range of performance materiality allocated to components was $3.8 million to $10.5 million.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $1.9million 2014: $3.1 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we analyse the implications for our report.
Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group which, when taken together, enable us to form an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We take into account size, risk profile, changes in the business environment and other factors when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The EVRAZ Group has centralised processes and controls over the key areas of our audit focus with responsibility lying with group management for the majority of judgemental processes and significant risk areas.
We have tailored our audit response accordingly and thus for the majority of our focus areas audit procedures were undertaken directly by the Group audit team with testing undertaken by the Component audit team on the verification of operational data and other routine processes.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group Financial Statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts, of the 60 reporting components of the Group we selected 15 components covering entities within Russia, Ukraine, Switzerland, Canada and the USA, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 15 components selected we performed an audit of the complete financial information of five components full scope components, which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 10 selected components specific scope components we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within the component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the amounts in the Group Financial Statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
For those specific accounts selected, as part of our Specific scope components, the extent of our audit work on those accounts was the same as that for a Full scope audit.
com Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements continued Tailoring the scope continued The 15 reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 77% 2014: 87% of the Group adjusted EBITDA, 92% 2014: 90% of the Groups revenue and 86% 2014: 87% of the Groups total assets.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 60% 2014: 71% of the Group adjusted EBITDA, 74% 2014: 66% of the Groups revenue and 57% 2014: 55% of the Groups Total assets.
The specific scope components contributed 17% 2014: 16% of the Group adjusted EBITDA, 18% 2014: 24% of the Groups revenue and 29% 2014: 32% of the Groups Total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
A further breakdown of the size of these components compared to key metrics of the Group is provided below.
Adjusted EBITDA, % Revenue, % Total assets, % Full Full Full 60% 74% 57% Specific Specific Specific 17% 18% 29% Other Other Other 23% 8% 14% The percentage of the Groups adjusted EBITDA attributable to full and specific scope entities is lower than the revenue metric because some of the full and specific scope entities contribute to the Groups revenue but individually have a negative adjusted EBITDA.
For the remaining 45 components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, review of internal audit reports, testing of consolidation journals, and intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential significant risks of material misstatement to the Group Financial Statements.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the Group as a whole which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Changes from the prior year Our scope allocation in the current year is broadly consistent with 2014 in terms of overall coverage of the Group and the number of full and specific scope entities except for adjusted EBITDA as some of the full scope entities have decreased or negative adjusted EBITDA in 2015.
We have made some changes in the identity of components subject to full and specific scope audit procedures.
Changes in our scope since the 2014 audit included removal of Highveld Steel & Vanadium from the audit scope due to loss of control by the Group over the entity in April 2015.
Integrated team structure The overall audit strategy is determined by the senior statutory auditor, Ken Williamson.
The senior statutory auditor is based in the UK but, since Group management and many operations reside in Russia, the Group audit team includes members from both the UK and Russia.
The senior statutory auditor visited Russia five times during the current years audit and members of the Group audit team in both jurisdictions work together as an integrated team throughout the audit process.
Whilst in Russia, he focused his time on the significant risks and judgemental areas of the audit.
He attended managements going concern, impairment and significant estimates and judgements presentations to the Audit Committee.
Ken Williamson met with Russian based members of the Group audit team including internal valuation specialists used in the audit.
During the current years audit he reviewed key working papers and met, or held conference calls, with representatives of the component audit team for all Russian based full scope components to discuss the audit approach and issues arising from their work.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 159 Financial Statements Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements continued Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the Group audit team or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the five full scope components, audit procedures were performed on all of these by the component audit team.
Of the 10 specific scope components selected, audit procedures were performed on five of these directly by the Group audit team.
For the components where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
During the current years audit cycle visits were undertaken by the Group audit team to component teams in Russia.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work.
The Group audit team participated in key discussions, via conference calls with all full and specific scope locations.
The Group audit team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at group level, gave us appropriate audit evidence for our opinion on the Group Financial Statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 148-149, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement in the annual report with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial Statements.
com Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report is: We have no Ireland reporting materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or exceptions to apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the report.
course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement included on page 148 of the Annual Report that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no 2006 reporting adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been exceptions to received from branches not visited by us: or report.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing We are required to review: We have no Rules review the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 143, and longer-term viability, set out on exceptions to requirements pages 28 to 29: and report.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: We have nothing Ireland reporting the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing material to add or the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: to draw attention the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: to.
the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
KEN WILLIAMSON Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 14 March 2016 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the EVRAZ plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
