Independent auditors report 108 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Experian plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Experian plcs Group and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and Companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the Groups profit and cash flows and the Companys profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
What we have audited Experian plcs financial statements comprise: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 31 March 2015: the Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Company profit and loss account for the year then ended: the Group statement of changes in total equity and Group cash flow statement for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: US$50m, which represents 5% of the Groups profit before tax.
We conducted work on three key reporting units.
Materiality These three reporting units, together with the corporate function and consolidation at the Group level, where we also conduct audit procedures, accounted for approximately 86% of the Groups revenue and 93% of the Groups profit before tax.
Audit scope We focused on: Tax uncertain tax positions and tax planning.
Areas of focus Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessment in respect of the Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA and Asia Pacific cash generating units CGUs.
109 Financial statements Independent auditors report The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgments, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Tax uncertain tax positions and tax planning Refer also to the Audit Committee report and notes 4, 5 In respect of exposures arising from ongoing enquiries raised and 16 to the Group financial statements.
by the tax authorities we considered both the most recent correspondence with the relevant revenue service and the The Group operates in a number of territories and recognises tax advice provided by the Groups tax advisers.
We made an based on interpretation of local laws and regulations which are assessment of whether management has taken an appropriate sometimes uncertain.
position in light of the tax authoritys arguments.
Based on the The directors are required to exercise significant judgment in evidence we obtained, we determined that the position taken by determining the appropriate amount to provide in respect of management and the disclosures in the financial statements of potential tax exposures and uncertain tax positions.
The most the uncertainties, were reasonable.
significant of these relate to Brazil and the UK.
Regulatory matters and litigation Refer also to the Audit Committee report and notes 5 and 41 We discussed the status of litigation and regulatory reviews to the Group financial statements.
with in-house legal counsel and the Global Compliance team.
We obtained evidence regarding the decisions and rationale for The consumer data industry continues to have increasing regulation provisions held or decisions not to recognise provisions, including in key markets across the world.
The Group operates in an increasingly correspondence with external legal counsel.
We also obtained scrutinised regulatory environment, including regulation by the external confirmations from legal counsel on significant litigation.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CFPB in the USA and the We also monitored and considered external information sources Financial Conduct Authority FCA in the UK.
The regulatory regime to identify potential legal actions and regulatory findings and no in these countries increases the risk that violations may result in further matters were identified.
The Group is also subject to increased levels of consumer claims, especially in Brazil relating to the disclosure and use of We found that in the context of the Group financial statements credit scores.
taken as a whole the judgments made by management were reasonable and the disclosures made in respect of these The directors applied judgment when determining whether, and provisions and contingent liabilities are appropriate.
how much, to provide for these matters.
We focused on this area due to the magnitude of potential exposures, and the inherent complexity and judgment involved in whether to make additional provisions and disclosures.
Goodwill and other intangible asset impairment assessment in respect of EMEA and Asia Pacific CGUs We obtained the Groups impairment analyses and tested the Refer also to the Audit Committee report and notes 4, 5, 20 and 21 reasonableness of key assumptions including long-term growth to the Group financial statements.
rates and short-term forecasted profit margins for the EMEA The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets at 31 and Asia Pacific CGUs.
We assessed the assumptions against March 2015 is US$6,017m.
Of this, US$5,529m relates to CGUs where managements record of historical forecasting accuracy and there is substantial headroom between value-in-use calculations and evaluated the methodology used to allocate central overhead the carrying value of net assets.
costs to individual CGUs within the impairment models.
The estimated recoverable amount of the EMEA US$300m goodwill We obtained and evaluated managements sensitivity analyses and other intangible assets and Asia Pacific US$188m goodwill to ascertain the impact of reasonably possible changes and we and other intangible assets CGUs shows there is low headroom performed our own sensitivity calculations to quantify the downside and some risk of impairment if growth assumptions and forecasted changes to managements models required to result in impairment, improvement in margin are not achieved.
focusing in particular on EMEA and Asia Pacific where the headroom The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets is contingent is lower than the other CGUs.
on future cash flows and there is a risk that, if these cash flows do not We determined the change in those assumptions that either meet the Groups expectations, the assets might be impaired.
individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill and The impairment reviews performed by management contain a other intangible assets to be impaired.
We then considered the number of significant judgments and estimates including revenue likelihood of such movements in key assumptions occurring and growth, profit margins and discount rates.
determined that these sat outside of the range of what we would consider to be realistically possible outcomes.
We found that the disclosures highlighted the key sensitivities used by management in its sensitivity analysis.
Independent auditors report 110 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Experian plc continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Group and Company financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured into five geographical regions, being North America, Latin America, UK and Ireland, EMEA and Asia Pacific.
Each region comprises a number of reporting units.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
We identified three reporting units that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information due to their size or risk characteristics.
These reporting units are all the significant businesses within the North America region, Serasa SA in the Latin America region and Experian Limited in the UK and Ireland region.
The three reporting units, together with the corporate function and consolidation at the Group level, where we also conducted audit procedures, accounted for approximately 86% of Group revenue and 93% of Group profit before tax.
In the current year, the Group engagement team visited two of the three component audit teams and these visits involved discussing the audit approach and any issues arising from the work, as well as meeting local management.
In addition to this, the Group team attended all clearance meetings either in person or by call.
This, together with additional procedures performed at a Group level, including procedures covering consolidation, financial statement disclosures, financial instruments, impairment, pensions, litigation and share-based payments, gave us the evidence that we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality US$50m 2014: US$52m.
How we determined it 5% of the Groups profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that the Groups profit before tax provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality and it represents the generally accepted auditing practice benchmark for such businesses.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to it misstatements identified during our audit above US$5m 2014: US$5m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern The directors have voluntarily complied with Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R 3 of the UK FCA and provided a statement in relation to going concern, set out in the directors report, required by UK registered companies with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The directors have requested that we review the statement on going concern as if the Company was a UK registered company.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Group and Company financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
111 Financial statements Independent auditors report Other required reporting Consistency of other information Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the annual report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
m aterially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or ap parently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Governance Code the Code, that they consider the annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the annual report, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules of the UK FCA we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Other voluntary reporting Directors remuneration The Company voluntarily prepares a report on directors remuneration in accordance with the provision of the UK Companies Act 2006.
The directors have requested that we audit the part of the report on directors remuneration specified by the UK Companies Act 2006 to be audited as if the Company were a UK registered company.
In our opinion the part of the report on directors remuneration to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and their audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come, save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Independent auditors report 112 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Experian plc continued What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgments against available evidence, forming our own judgments, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Ranjan Sriskandan for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor London, United Kingdom 11 May 2015
