F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Independent Auditors Report 2015.
The fair value of the investment property at 31 December Independent Auditors Report to the 2015 was assessed by the Board of Directors based on an Members of F&C Commercial Property independent valuation prepared by the Groups external Trust Limited property valuer.
As highlighted in the Report of the Audit Committee, the valuation of the Groups investment property, Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit given it represents the majority of the total assets of the Group Opinion on financial statements and requires the use of significant judgment, is a significant area We have audited the consolidated financial statements the of the audit.
financial statements of F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Our response Our audit procedures with respect to the the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group for the valuation of the Groups investment property included, but were year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise the Consolidated not limited to, testing the design, implementation and operating Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance effectiveness of the relevant controls, involvement of our own Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Real Estate specialist, to examine the valuation prepared by the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes.
external property valuer and to evaluate the appropriateness The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their of the valuation methodologies and assumptions used, preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting including reviewing general market information and undertaking Standards as adopted by the European Union EU.
In our discussions on key findings with the external valuer.
opinion, the financial statements: We challenged the external valuers assumptions by comparing give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at key inputs used to derive the valuation such as current and 31 December 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: estimated rental income, initial and equivalent yields, estimated have been properly prepared in accordance with International capital value, occupancy and tenancy contracts for consistency Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU: and with other audit findings.
comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
We also considered the Groups disclosures see Note 1 f in relation to the use of estimates and judgments regarding fair Our assessment of risks of material misstatement value of investment property and the Groups valuation policies The risks of material misstatement detailed in this section of this adopted and fair value disclosures in Note 9 for compliance report are those risks that we have deemed, in our professional with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by judgment, to have had the greatest effect on: the overall audit the EU.
strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit procedures relating to Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope these risks were designed in the context of our audit of the financial of our audit statements as a whole.
Our opinion on the financial statements Materiality is a term used to describe the acceptable level of is not modified with respect to any of these risks, and we do not precision in financial statements.
Auditing standards describe a express an opinion on these individual risks.
misstatement or an omission as material if it could reasonably be In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
The auditor has to apply judgment risks of material misstatements that had the greatest effect on our in identifying whether a misstatement or omission is material and to audit was as follows: do so the auditor identifies a monetary amount as materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Valuation of Investment Property 1,340.1 million The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at Refer to page 28 of the Report of the Audit Committee, Note 1 f 13.6 million.
This has been calculated using a benchmark of the accounting policies and Note 9 disclosures Groups total assets of which it represents approximately 1% The risk The Groups investment property accounted for which we believe is the most appropriate benchmark as investment 94.7 per cent of the Groups total assets as at 31 December 32 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 33 AUDITORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT AUDITORS REPORT property values are considered as the prime driver of returns to the Disclosures of principal risks members.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit the directors statement of Viability Assessment and Statement with a value in excess of 680,000, in addition to other audit on page 13, concerning the principal risks, their management, misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations reporting on qualitative grounds.
of the companys continuing in operation over the 5 years to 31 March 2021: or The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single operating entity based on the aggregated set of financial the disclosures in note 1a of the financial statements concerning information for the Group.
The audit was performed using the the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
materiality levels set out above and covered 100% of total Group revenue, Group profit before taxation and total Group assets.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under International Standards on Auditing [ISAs] UK and Ireland Our assessment of materiality has informed our identification of we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we significant risks of material misstatement and the associated audit acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the procedures performed in those areas as detailed above.
Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that Whilst the audit process is designed to provide reasonable knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of assurance of identifying material misstatements or omissions it is fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Rather we plan the audit to determine In particular, we are required to report to you if: the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and we have identified material inconsistencies between the undetected misstatements does not exceed materiality for the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors financial statements as a whole.
This testing requires us to conduct statement that they consider that the Annual Report and significant depth of work on a broad range of assets, liabilities, financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and income and expense as well as devoting significant time of the understandable and provides the information necessary for most experienced members of the audit team, in particular the members to assess the Groups performance, business model Responsible Individual, to subjective areas of the accounting and and strategy: or reporting process.
the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, we are required to misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an report to you if, in our opinion: assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate the Company has not kept proper accounting records: or to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors: and the accounting records: or overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we we have not received all the information and explanations, which read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual to the best of our knowledge and belief are necessary for the Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial purpose of our audit.
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Corporate Governance Statement on pages 25 to 26 relating to If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
32 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 33 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Independent Auditors Report Scope of report and responsibilities The purpose of this report and restrictions on its use by persons other than the Companys members as a body This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and, in respect of any further matters on which we have agreed to report, on terms we have agreed with the Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 31, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the UK Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Heather J MacCallum For and on behalf of KPMG Channel Islands Limited Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors Glategny Court Glategny Esplanade St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 1WR 4 April 2016 34 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 35
