Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc Opinion on financial statements of FirstGroup plc In our opinion: Q the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Q the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Q the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Q the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated cash ow statement, and the related notes 1 to 35, the parent company balance sheet, and the related notes to the parent company balance sheet 1 to 11.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within Other statutory information on page 103 that the Group is agoing concern.
We confirm that: Q we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and Q we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue asagoing concern.
160 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The assessment of the carrying value of First Student We challenged managements assumptions used in their impairment model for goodwill 1,073.5m in the consolidated balance sheet goodwill, specically including the cash ow projections, discount rates and growth rates applied.
Our procedures included: The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and Q considering the identification of appropriate cash generating units: intangibles, as described in Note 2, involves judgement in Q assessing cash flow forecast projections with reference to historical trading relation to forecasting future cash ows and is sensitive to performance and cash flow forecasting accuracy: growth rates and the discount rate applied to the future cash ows.
The Cash Generating Unit CGU most sensitive Q comparing the discount rate applied against a broad comparator group as well as to variation in these assumptions is the First Student CGU, involving our internal valuation specialists to review underlying calculations and as disclosed in Note 11 to the financial statements, as it assess the key components of the discount rate calculation: continues to implement its returns based strategy.
Q considering the reasonableness of, and recalculating, the sensitivity assessment applied by management: and Q performing further independent sensitivity analysis on the impairment model.
The assessment of the valuation and completeness of third The audit procedures we performed in respect of this risk included: party claims and associated provisions 365.6m in the Q working with our own actuarial specialists to test a range of estimates determined by consolidated balance sheet management and their external actuary considering the methodologies employed and comparing assumptions used to the Groups historical experience: The valuation and completeness of both legal and Q independently developing an actuarial calculation and comparing the provision self-insurance provisions are a source of estimation recorded to the actuarial range calculated by the external actuary: uncertainty, as described in Note 2 and Note 25, which require managements best estimate in assessing the Q testing a sample of underlying data used to develop the provision for completeness likeliness andvaluation of settlement and, where applicable, and accuracy and challenging the appropriateness of the discount rate used through the discount rate applied to the external settlement values.
comparison to prior years and those used by similar entities: and Q obtaining confirmations from internal and independent external legal counsel.
Valuation of pension scheme liabilities 4.9bn in the The audit procedures we performed in respect of this risk included: consolidated balance sheet Q working with our own actuarial specialists to test the assumptions used by management in valuing the Groups defined benefit pension scheme liabilities such The Group operates in a labour intensive industry with large as the discount rate, inflation and mortality rate: and membership to a number of dened benefit pension Q performing sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions and comparing them to schemes.
The gross pension liabilities, as disclosed in Note industry benchmarks and the prior years rates adopted.
34, are materially sensitive to changes in the underlying assumptions adopted.
Management exercise significant judgement when determining those assumptions, particularly in respect of the discount rate, ination and mortality rates, as described in Note 2.
Revenue recognition including contract accounting Note 2 To test the risk of material misstatement in respect of revenue recognition, our procedures included: The Group operates a number of long term contracts Q assessing and challenging the judgements taken by management by reference to including UK rail franchises and certain North American the underlying contract terms and applicable accounting standards: and passenger and service contracts.
Management exercise Q challenging profit forecasts prepared by management by reference to historical judgement in determining the appropriate timing and trading performance and forecasting accuracy.
valuation of revenue recognised, valuation of deferred and accrued income and the evaluation of the overall profitability of these contracts.
The description of the above risks should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 73 of the Directors and corporate governance report.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modied with respect to any risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 161 Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 7.9m 2014: 5.6m, which is 4.8% of adjusted pre-tax profit as dened on page 119, and below 1%of equity.
The adjusted pre-tax profit measure has been used to exclude the volatility of non-recurring items.
In addition, the exclusion of amortisation and the income statement effect of ineffective and unhedged financial derivative valuation is consistent with the key measure used by the Group for internal and external reporting requirements.
This measure has been used to facilitate a better understanding of the trading performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 158,000 2014: 100,000 as well asdifferences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the four UK Bus operating regions, three significant UK Train Operating Companies, the operations in North America and the Group, Rail division and Bus division corporate head ofce functions as well as the UK Shared Service Centre.
These locations were subject to full audit procedures and represent the principal business units and account for 89% of the Groups net assets, 99% of the Groups revenue and 100% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identied above.
Our audit work at locations subject to full audit procedures was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual location which was lower than Group materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We include all component audit teams in our team brieng, discuss their risk assessment and a senior member of the Group audit team has visited all locations to review documentation of the findings from their work.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: Q the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Q the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Q we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Q adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Q the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
162 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Q materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Q apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Q otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identied any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Graham Richardson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London 10 June 2015 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 163
