66 Independent auditors report to the members of Galliford Try plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Galliford Try plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2015 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and asapplied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements comprise: the balance sheets as at 30 June 2015: the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the statements of cash flows for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs asadopted by the European Union and, as regards the company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions ofthe Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 5,550,000 which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Taken together, the reporting units in scope accounted for 86% of Group revenue and 90% of Group profit before tax.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition and contract accounting.
Risk that Linden Homes developments may not be valued appropriately.
Risk that amounts recoverable on construction contracts may not be valued appropriately.
Risk that the net assets and intangibles from the acquisition of Miller Construction may not be valued appropriately.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Inparticular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgments, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials 67 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of fraud in revenue recognition and contract accounting We identified and assessed key judgments inherent in Most businesses face a risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
theestimation of significant construction contract projects, Construction contract accounting is inherently complex and by validating stage-of-completion and costs to completion on we focused on this area because there is judgment involved significant projects using surveyors latest valuations, as well as in estimating the costs to complete of projects.
Revenue from evaluating the final outcome on projects completed in the year in fixed price construction contracts is recognised based upon relation to previous estimates made.
We found overall estimates managements assessment of the value of works carried out and judgments to be reasonable and consistent throughout considering performance against the programme of works, thebusiness.
measurement of the works, detailed evaluation of the costs We agreed revenue recognised on a sample of major projects incurred and comparison to external certification of the work to supporting documentation such as customer contracts and performed.
Profit is not recognised until the outcome of the signed variations.
No material exceptions were noted from contract is reasonably certain.
We tested the timing of construction contract revenue recognition, Refer to Note 1 Accounting Policies on page 78 of the Annual taking into account contractual obligations, the percentage of the Report and Financial Statements Annual Report and the Audit contract completed, third-party certifications and the timing of Committee Report on page 44 of the Annual Report.
cash receipts and found no material exceptions.
For Linden Homes revenue, we tested a sample of sales by examining legal completion documents.
We also considered thethird-party release of mortgage finance, where appropriate, tocheck building work was complete.
No material exceptions were noted from our testing.
We performed data analysis to identify potentially unusual journal entries impacting revenue and performed testing on those items.
We found no material misstatements from our testing.
Risk that Linden Homes developments may not be We identified and tested the operating effectiveness of key valuedappropriately controls around the estimation and allocation of common The valuation of developments is dependent upon the correct costs on sites, estimation of costs to complete and calculation estimation and allocation of common costs on Linden Homes of projected site margins.
We found no material exceptions sites.
Common costs are allocated proportionately across the site fromour testing of key controls.
using projected site margin to give a common gross profit margin We compared managements assumptions on future sales on all units on that site, therefore changes in the total common prices for a sample of sites to completed sales and available costs incurred on a site over the life of the development can industry data and noted no material variances.
causethe profit margin to fluctuate.
We identified and assessed a sample of key judgments inherent in estimates of site and project margins, particularly around Older or slower-moving developments can be an indication changes in the allocation of common costs on sites and any ofpotential impairment.
disputes or unresolved negotiations with subcontractors.
We found managements assumptions and judgments to be Refer to Note 1: Accounting Policies on page 78 of the reasonable and no material misstatements were identified AnnualReport.
We agreed a sample of costs incurred on sites, including common costs, to supporting documentation and noted nomaterial exceptions.
We evaluated the ageing of developments and investigated large, older and slower-moving items by obtaining and corroborating explanations for the levels of provisions held against such developments.
We received explanations from management for reasons of ageing of the developments and corroborated these explanations to sales of these units post acquisition.
We noted no material misstatements from the procedure performed.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 68 Independent auditors report to the members of Galliford Try plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risk that amounts recoverable on construction contracts may We tested the operating effectiveness of key controls around not be valued appropriately stage-of-completion, costs to complete and forecast margin The valuation of amounts recoverable on construction contracts calculations.
We found no material exceptions from our testing is dependent on judgments around stage of completion and ofkey controls.
remaining costs to complete, as well as the associated provisions.
We identified and assessed a sample of key judgments inherent in estimation of significant projects, particularly around stage of Refer to Note 1 Accounting Policies on page 78 of the Annual completion, costs to complete and provisions on loss-making Report and the Audit Committee Report on page 44 of the contracts through our testing of contract review meetings, AnnualReport.
reading correspondence with the customer and sub-contractors, and obtaining audit evidence on customer supplier disputes and insurance claims.
We challenged material instances of uncertified value recorded and the level of provisions held against these amounts.
We found no material misstatements from the procedures performed.
We compared the final outcome on projects completed in the year to previous estimates made on those projects to assess the reliability of managements estimates.
We found managements estimates to be reasonable and overall consistent with the prioryear.
We tested whether valid contractual agreements or other documentation was in place to support a sample of balances.
We noted no material exceptions from the testing performed.
We identified, and obtained and corroborated explanations for, unusual fluctuations in margins on significant projects.
We noted no material unexplained fluctuations in margins and noted no material misstatements from the procedures performed.
Risk that the net assets and intangibles from the acquisition We assessed the appropriateness of assumptions made by ofMiller Construction may not be valued appropriately management in the valuation of work-in-progress, provisions Galliford Try acquired the Miller Construction business from and other balances associated with ongoing projects acquired MillerGroup on 9 July 2014.
The valuation of identifiable intangible by evaluating the assessments performed by management, assets 12.1 million which includes service contracts and considering the consistency and completeness of assessments secured customer contracts, goodwill 20.2 million, and other net performed, and corroborating key assumptions made.
We noted liabilities 15.7 million acquired is subject to judgment.
Significant no material misstatements from the work performed.
projects were assessed in detail by management as part of the We obtained the report prepared by managements third party acquisition process, with re-evaluation of the appropriateness expert and assessed the assumptions including managements of judgments taken around stage-of-completion, likelihood and revenue and cash flow forecasts, growth rates and discount potential magnitude of delays or cost overruns, andany other rates used in the report for the valuation of identifiable reasonably possible obligations that may arise inthe course of intangible assets.
We also reperformed the calculation completing these projects.
We noted no material misstatements fromtheworkperformed.
Refer to Note 31 Business Combinations on page 108 of the Annual Report the Audit Committee Report on page 44 of the Annual Report.
How we tailored the audit scope In identifying these areas of focus and in ensuring that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, we took into account: the divisional structure of the Group: the accounting processes and controls: and the industry in which the Group operates, and tailored the scope of our audit accordingly.
The Group is structured in two principal divisions, being Housebuilding comprising Linden Homes and Galliford Try Partnerships and Construction comprising Building and Infrastructure.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of six reporting units in total, comprising the four operating entities within these two divisions, PPP Investments and centralised Group functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at these reporting units.
Of the Groups six reporting units, we identified that Linden Homes, Building, Infrastructure and centralised Group functions, inour view, required an audit of their entire financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
Taken together, thereporting units in scope accounted for 86% of Group revenue and 90% of Group profit before tax.
The scope of our work took intoaccount the transfer of accounting information from Miller Group accounting systems to Galliford Trys accounting systems.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
These included assessment of the fair values of net assets and intangibles arising from the acquisition of Miller Construction, and the valuation of goodwill and legacy defined benefit pension scheme balances.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials 69 Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent ofouraudit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 5,550,000 2014: 4,500,000.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with last year, we applied this benchmark as a generally accepted auditing practice applicable for a trading group of companies.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 277,000 2014:230,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 64, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Statement of directors responsibilities, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the annual report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 64, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of We have no exceptions to report arising from the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report this responsibility.
taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from the section of the Annual Report on page 44, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address this responsibility.
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 70 Independent auditors report to the members of Galliford Try plc continued Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 65, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK&Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes anassessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgments against available evidence, forming our own judgments, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide areasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Jonathan Hook Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 16 September 2015 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
