Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: G4S plcs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs at 31 December 2015 and of the groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2015: the parent company statement of financial position at 31 December 2015: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of cash flow for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: the parent company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach G4S is an integrated security company specialising in the provision of security and related services to customers across around 100 countries which are organised into six geographical regions.
Overview Materiality Overall group materiality: 13 million which represents approximately 5% of profit before tax, after adding back certain non-recurring items adjusted profit before tax.
Audit scope Our audit included full scope audits of the groups six geographical regions and the corporate head office region.
The regional and corporate head office audits were supported by 108 country component audits with specified audit procedures performed at a further 17 country components.
Taken together, the components at which audit work was performed accounted for 86% of consolidated revenue, 78% of consolidated profit before tax and 87% of consolidated adjusted profit before tax and covered all components that individually contributed more than 1% to consolidated revenue and consolidated profit before tax.
Areas of focus Onerous contract provisioning Goodwill impairment Prior year restatements Denmark alarms accounting, Africa balance sheet review and accounting for acquisitions, disposals and related tax balances in North America between 2007 and 2014 Uncertain tax positions and deferred tax assets Control environment Income statement presentation Going concern 106 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Context The context of our audit is set by 2015 being our first year as external auditors of the group.
As part of our audit transition, we performed specific procedures over opening balances by shadowing the prior year audit undertaken by the predecessor auditor, reviewing the predecessor auditor working papers in the UK and where permitted by local regulations in each of the groups in-scope countries, and re-evaluating the key management judgements in the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2015.
We performed year one process walkthroughs to understand and evaluate the key financial processes and controls across the group and, in accordance with International Standard on Review Engagements UK and Ireland 2410, a review of the half year financial information.
As a result of this work, we initiated alongside management early audit procedures on the groups 30 September 2015 balance sheet otherwise known as a hard close audit in each of the groups in-scope markets.
The objective of the hard close audit was to ensure that each of our teams was appropriately orientated and able to decide what work needed to be done when and where at year-end, to enable early consideration of as many key accounting judgements as possible before the year-end and to identify any businesses or specific areas where additional audit attention might be required at year-end.
The audit transition, half year review and hard close audit were important in determining our final 2015 group audit scope and areas of focus.
As we undertook each phase of this first year audit, we regularly updated our risk assessment to reflect audit findings including our assessment of the groups control environment.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where management made judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Consistent with all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by management that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud, and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
Procedures designed to address these risks included testing of material journal entries and post-close adjustments, testing and evaluating managements key accounting estimates for reasonableness and consistency, undertaking cut-off procedures to check proper cut-off of revenue and expenses and testing the occurrence and accuracy of revenue transactions.
In addition, we incorporate an element of unpredictability into our audit work each year.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus Onerous contract provisioning Certain of the groups contracts are onerous and long-term in nature.
These contracts can be complex and incorporate penalty and key performance indicator KPI clauses in the event of non-compliance.
The group is therefore required to make operational and financial assumptions to estimate future losses over periods that can extend beyond 20 years.
The prediction of future events contains inherent risk and a high degree of management judgement.
Variability of contract penalties, underlying delivery costs and customer disputes can put additional pressure on margins and on future contract profitability, giving rise to onerous contract provisions.
The groups onerous contract provisions at 31 December 2015 are 83m 2014: 47m.
The income statement charge for onerous contracts in 2015 amounts to 65m.
Refer to Audit Committee report on page 68 and to note 33 of the group financial statements.
How our audit addressed the area of focus Our global approach to testing complex contracts starts with an evaluation of managements process to identify and quantify onerous and at-risk contracts.
Management focuses on the top 25 contracts by region and on contracts with margins of less than 3%.
Our sampling of contracts focused our testing on higher risk and larger arrangements and enabled us to form an independent view as to whether managements process had identified all onerous and at-risk contracts.
In addition, we performed scanning analytics on contract margins and investigated unusual or unexpected trends to check inclusion of relevant contracts in managements assessment.
We subsequently evaluated the completeness of the groups onerous contract provisions, focusing in particular on the larger and more judgemental arrangements.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 107 Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc continued Report on the financial statements For each contract in our sample, we obtained and read the contractual terms and tested that the revenue recognised in the period was in accordance with the contractual terms and was supported by evidence of service delivery.
We read and understood the contract penalty clauses and evaluated the completeness of penalties through discussions with contract managers and reading meeting minutes between G4S and the customer and customer correspondence.
We assessed each of the key assumptions used in managements forecasts to identify and quantify onerous contract provisions.
Where possible, we obtained third party evidence to corroborate managements assumptions and assessed the appropriateness of the companys forecasts based on past performance.
The groups policy is to include the benefits of performance improvement plans only where there is evidence of plans being achievable.
We critically challenged these benefits based on observable benefits achieved to date and the extent to which these plans are within the groups direct control.
We assessed the appropriateness of the discount rate used to present value the obligation and checked that the rate appropriately reflected the risk in the underlying cash flows.
We also challenged the recoverability of dedicated contract assets where the contract was identified as onerous.
We are satisfied that assets directly attributable to delivering onerous contracts have been appropriately impaired at 31 December 2015.
Having examined managements analysis, our procedures focused on the Facilities Management and Care and Justice businesses in the UK and specifically on the legacy Compass and PFI contract which are long-term in nature, sensitive to changes in assumptions and have given rise to material changes in provisioning levels at year-end.
In respect of the Compass contract, we performed our own independent sensitivity analysis noting that the provision is most sensitive to changes in assumptions of user numbers and timing of contract termination.
Our sensitivity analysis highlighted that small movements in these key assumptions have a significant impact on the year-end provision.
For both Compass and the legacy PFI contract, we also held discussions with group and regional legal counsel and read appropriate documentation to understand the legal position to evaluate customer claims and to assess any issues with the interpretation of contracts.
From the evidence obtained, we did not identify any incremental onerous contracts over and above the arrangements identified by managements own procedures.
We considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the group financial statements taken as a whole.
However, we noted that the assumptions and judgements that are required to formulate the provisions mean that the range of possible outcomes is broad.
We are satisfied with the groups related disclosures of these onerous contracts and the associated sensitivities in light of the underlying assumptions and accounting judgements made.
Goodwill impairment The group has 1.83bn of goodwill at 31 December 2015 2014: 1.92bn.
During the year, the group recognised an impairment charge of 66m largely relating to the Estonia 25m, South Africa Cash 9m, Brazil Technology 12m, Serbia 8m, Papua New Guinea 5m and China Systems 4m cash generating units CGUs.
With the exception of Estonia, all impairments related to businesses classified by management as portfolio businesses held for sale or closure.
Management determines the recoverable amount of a CGU as the higher of value in use VIU or fair value less cost of disposal FVLCD for continuing operations.
For portfolio businesses where management is committed to either sell or exit the business, a market valuation or market participant cash flows are used.
The carrying value of goodwill is contingent on future cash flows and there is risk if these cash flows do not meet the groups expectations that the assets will be impaired.
The impairment reviews performed by the group contain a number of significant judgements and estimates including revenue growth, profit margins, cash conversion and long-term growth and discount rates.
Changes in these assumptions can have a significant impact on the headroom available in the impairment calculations.
In the current year, management has revised its specific cash flow forecasting period from 15 years to five years to align the forecast projections to the groups budgeting period.
Refer to Audit Committee report on page 68 and to note 18 of the group financial statements.
How our audit addressed the area of focus We assessed the mathematical accuracy of managements cash flow model and appropriateness of the change in the forecast period.
The forecast period was found to be in line with the groups budget and strategic outlook.
We agreed the underlying forecasts to board approved budgets and assessed how these budgets were compiled.
With the support of our valuations experts, we assessed the terminal growth rates and discount rates applied by management to third party information and confirmed they fell within a reasonable range of external market data.
Where they did not, we applied our independent view of a more appropriate rate to managements forecast.
108 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements We considered the reliability of managements forecasting for revenue, profit and cash conversion by comparing budgeted results to actual performance over a period of two years which we considered appropriate.
Where we identified significant shortfalls against budget in prior years, this informed our determination of sensitivities to apply as we formed our independent view about reasonable downside scenarios.
We performed our own risk assessment by considering historical performance, forecasting accuracy and modelled headroom to highlight the CGUs with either a lower headroom or which are more sensitive to changes in key assumptions.
We also considered the valuation multiple implied by managements estimate.
Following these procedures, we focused our attention on the Estonia, South Africa Cash, Brazil Security and Greece CGUs.
We performed our own sensitivity analysis to understand the impact of changes in the assumptions on the available headroom.
We focused in particular on Estonia and Brazil Security which are more sensitive to changes in assumptions than other CGUs.
Our sensitivity analysis highlighted that the Estonia and Brazil Security CGUs were particularly sensitive to changes in the discount rate.
The Estonia CGU was also found to be sensitive to changes in future growth rates.
We critically challenged managements forecast by comparing growth forecast to actual growth to date and to IMF projections.
Based on our procedures we are satisfied that the 25m impairment for Estonia is appropriate.
Where the recoverable amount has been assessed with reference to a valuation multiple, including for portfolio businesses, we assessed the appropriateness of the multiple by comparison to recent business disposals and to other third party information.
With the support of our valuations experts, these multiples were found to be within a reasonable range.
Based on our procedures we are satisfied that the 12m impairment for Brazil Technology is appropriate.
The recoverable amount of a number of CGUs including UK Cash Solutions, Brazil Secure Solutions, China, Denmark, Greece, Democratic Republic of Congo, Guatemala and Zambia were found to be sensitive to reasonably possible changes in assumptions and we satisfied ourselves that this risk is appropriately highlighted in the disclosures in note 18.
As a result of our work, we determined that the quantum of the impairment recognised in 2015 was appropriate and adequate disclosure has been made.
Restatements A number of prior period errors have been identified either as a result of our opening balance sheet procedures or from managements review of the groups balance sheet.
Each of these adjustments was deemed to be material to the consolidated financial statements and has been restated accordingly as set out in note 3 w. The cumulative impact of these restatements was 48m on opening reserves at 1 January 2015 and a 7m reduction to profit in 2014.
Denmark alarms accounting We undertook a detailed review of the groups accounting for alarm sales in Denmark.
Considering both the legal form and economic substance of these arrangements, this review resulted in management making a number of changes to revenue recognition practices for sales of rental and non-rental alarms.
In addition, the groups historical treatment of sale and leaseback transactions as operating rather than finance in nature was found to be inappropriate.
In both cases, the errors had given rise to the acceleration of recognition of profit in prior years.
The cumulative impact of these errors on the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2015 was 28m.
How our audit addressed the area of focus We assessed whether the prior year accounting practices were appropriate and in accordance with IFRS given the legal form and economic substance of the arrangements between the group, its customers and the leasing company.
The change in accounting approach was supported by corroborating evidence such as underlying contractual arrangements, the net present value of future lease payments and the useful economic life of the alarms.
We performed audit procedures to test the completeness, accuracy and valuation of the adjustments made by management and to confirm that the groups disclosures in respect of this restatement as disclosed in note 3 were reasonable.
Africa balance sheet review Following the appointment of new regional leadership in 2015, the ongoing review of the Africa balance sheet was completed.
The review was performed on a country-by-country basis and focused on the recoverability of assets, completeness of liabilities and reconciliations between the underlying country ledgers and group consolidation system.
Following this review, a number of adjustments were identified amounting to 26m in aggregate.
An analysis was subsequently performed by management to assess whether the adjustments represented a prior period error or change in estimate.
How our audit addressed the area of focus With the assistance of our regional and country component audit teams, we examined managements analysis on a country-by-country basis and assessed the validity and accuracy of each of the adjustments.
This work was further supported by our 2015 substantive audit procedures in the in-scope African countries.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 109 Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc continued Report on the financial statements We assessed managements classification of each adjustment as either an error or change in estimate and the groups disclosure of items as such in note 3 w. Based on these procedures, we determined that the amounts deemed by management to be prior period errors and subject to restatement were consistent with the findings from our audit and that appropriate disclosure has been made.
Accounting for acquisitions and disposals in North America between 2007 and 2014 A number of prior period adjustments have arisen from the accounting for acquisitions and disposals in North America between 2007 and 2014.
These adjustments mainly relate to the incorrect recognition of deferred tax liabilities and associated goodwill on US acquisitions in 2008 and 2009.
In addition, certain errors were identified relating to the calculation of profits or losses on disposal of businesses in 2014 including the need to recycle cumulative foreign exchange from reserves on disposal of overseas subsidiaries.
The aggregate impact of these errors on the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2015 was 6m.
Refer to Audit Committee report on page 68 and to note 3 w of the group financial statements.
How our audit addressed the area of focus We assessed the validity and accuracy of each adjustment with reference to the companys initial acquisition and disposal accounting judgements taken in prior years, underlying tax reconciliations and composition of reserves.
As part of this assessment, we considered the root cause of the underlying errors and performed additional audit testing in North America and on the groups reserve balances in order to satisfy ourselves that no further material errors remained undetected.
Based on these procedures, we satisfied ourselves that the adjustments identified were reasonable.
For each of the three prior period errors subject to restatement, which are described above, we considered whether similar errors had arisen elsewhere in the group.
We did not identify any other errors impacting prior years that are material individually or in aggregate.
No other material items arose from our procedures on the opening balance sheet.
Uncertain tax positions and deferred tax assets The group operates in a complex multinational tax environment and is subject to a range of tax matters during the normal course of business including transaction related tax matters and transfer pricing arrangements.
Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, the group establishes provisions based on managements judgement of the probable amount of the future liability.
At 31 December 2015, the group has recognised provisions of 16m related to uncertain tax positions 2014: 22m.
In addition, the group has recognised 187m of deferred tax assets at 31 December 2015 2014: 192m.
The recognition of deferred tax assets involves judgement by management regarding the likelihood of the realisation of these assets.
The expectation that these assets will be realised is dependent on a number of factors, including whether there will be sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support utilisation of these assets.
Refer to Audit Committee report on page 68 and to notes 13 and 34 of the group financial statements.
How our audit addressed the area of focus With the assistance of our local and international tax specialists, we evaluated and challenged managements judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order to assess the adequacy of the groups tax provisions.
In understanding and evaluating managements judgements, we considered the status of recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries, judgemental positions taken in tax returns and current year estimates and developments in the tax environment.
Where appropriate, we also read appropriate documentation to understand the legal positions reached.
From the evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the group financial statements taken as a whole.
However, we noted that the assumptions and judgements that are required to formulate the provisions mean that is there a broad range of possible outcomes.
In respect of the recoverability of deferred tax assets, we evaluated the managements assessment of whether there will be sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support the recognition of deferred tax assets.
We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts and the process by which they were prepared ensuring consistency of cash flows with those used for the purpose of goodwill impairment testing.
Based on our procedures, future cash flow forecasts were both consistent with those used for impairment testing and supported the recoverability of the deferred tax assets recognised.
In light of 2015 being a first year audit, we deployed our transfer pricing specialists to evaluate the appropriateness of the groups transfer pricing methodology, to consider recent experience with relevant tax authorities and to identify areas of heightened risk to focus our audit testing.
Our procedures provided us with evidence that the related tax provisions, and disclosure thereof are materially appropriate and complete.
110 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Control environment The geographical span and decentralised structure of the group, coupled with the current disparate systems landscape and evolving control environment, means that there is an increased risk of errors remaining undetected and aggregating to cause a material misstatement to the group financial statements.
Refer to Audit Committee report on page 68 and to note 3 w in the group financial statements.
How our audit addressed the area of focus In recognition of the groups scale and decentralised structure and aligning to the groups regional management structure, we deployed teams in each of the groups regions to lead our interactions with regional management, to coordinate the audit work performed at a country component level and to audit and report on the aggregated financial information of that region.
As part of our first year audit procedures, we performed year one process walkthroughs to understand and evaluate the groups control environment.
Considering the findings from these procedures and from our half year review, we initiated alongside management a hard close audit across all in-scope markets covering the 30 September 2015 balance sheet to enable the early identification of any accounting issues in advance of year-end.
Based on the findings from our hard close audit, we instructed our component teams not to seek to rely on financial controls at the local business level but to perform a substantive audit focused on transaction testing and on the integrity of the year-end balance sheet.
That said, we were able to leverage a number of process and control developments implemented at the regional level including Regional Risk and Audit Committees, contract reviews and balance sheet reviews in determining where to direct our audit attention.
With the support of our regional teams, we determined the entities to be included in our year-end group audit scope based on those locations with significant risk and those which contribute a significant amount to material line items in the group financial statements.
Recognising the systemic risk associated with the current control and IT environment, all entities which contributed more than 1% of consolidated revenue were included in our year-end scope.
We applied a reduction to our overall materiality to set a performance materiality benchmark that we use to determine the nature, timing and extent of our detailed audit procedures.
Our performance materiality benchmark reflects the groups evolving control environment, the risk of multiple misstatements resulting in a material misstatement and the history of past audit adjustments.
Wherever we identified audit adjustments, including but not limited to the prior period errors subject to restatement, we instructed our regional and country component teams to assess whether similar errors had arisen elsewhere.
While we did identify audit differences across the group, management recorded the more significant items meaning that the uncorrected items reported to the Audit Committee were considered to be immaterial for adjustment, both individually and in aggregate.
Income statement presentation The group has historically reported specific and other items including restructuring costs which are disclosed separately on the face of the income statement and which are excluded from managements reporting of the underlying results of the business.
Consistent with the companys definition of profit before interest, tax and amortisation PBITA, the following items have continued to be disclosed separately on the face of the income statement in 2015: net specific items 70m 2014: 57m : restructuring costs 44m 2014: 29m : goodwill impairments 66m 2014: nil : and profit on disposal of subsidiaries 12m 2014: nil.
The treatment of specific and other separately disclosed items is explained in the group accounting policy in note 3 c. We focused on this area because the classification of items as specific requires judgement and because certain of these items are excluded from the calculation of elements of executive remuneration in line with the groups remuneration policy.
Consistency in the identification and presentation of these items is important to ensure comparability of year-on-year reporting in the Annual Report.
Refer to Audit Committee report on page 68 and to note 3 c of the group financial statements.
How our audit addressed the area of focus We substantiated the nature and quantum of individual items to appropriate corroborating evidence.
We considered whether the designation of individual items as specific was consistent with the groups accounting policy and treatment in prior years.
We considered whether the group has taken a balanced approach to this area, checking that exceptional one-off items of income are treated consistently with one-off items of cost.
We tested managements process for identifying and tracking the current year reversal of any prior year specific items, or utilisation of or adjustment to related provisions, to identify whether these have been appropriately presented in the current year income statement.
Based on our procedures, we were satisfied that the treatment and classification of these items were consistent year-on-year and with the groups policies.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 111 Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc continued Report on the financial statements Going concern The group has 1.78bn of net debt at 31 December 2015 2014: 1.64bn.
This includes committed bank facilities and private placement loan notes that are subject to financial covenants.
The covenant restricts net debt to 3.5x the groups EBITDA subject to certain adjustments.
During the year, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA has deteriorated.
Any breach of these financial covenants could impact the groups access to financing which could in turn impact the going concern basis under which the groups financial statements have been prepared.
Predicting the future covenant compliance and liquidity position of the group is based on profit and cash flow projections which are inherently judgemental.
Refer to Audit Committee report on page 68.
How our audit addressed the area of focus In assessing the appropriateness of management adopting the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements, we obtained and examined managements budgets and forecasts for the 12 month period from the date the financial statements were approved, checking that these forecasts have been subject to board review and approval.
We considered the historical reliability of managements forecasting for EBITDA, cash flow and net debt by comparing budgeted results to actual performance over a period of two years, which we considered appropriate.
Managements base case forecasts show sufficient resources being available to the group over the 12 month period from the date of approval of the financial statements to allow the group to continue to execute its strategy.
In addition, management has prepared a downside case modelling a series of risk factors, including no further benefit from disposal proceeds and a deterioration in working capital performance.
Under this downside scenario, managements forecasts continue to demonstrate covenant compliance and liquidity headroom compared to the groups borrowing limits during the 12 month going concern period.
We performed our own independent sensitivity analysis to understand the impact of changes in EBITDA, cash flow and net debt on the resources available to the group.
Our independent sensitivity analysis also demonstrated that sufficient resources would be in place.
In addition, we recalculated the year-end covenants at 31 December 2015 using a consistent methodology to covenant certificates historically provided to the groups lenders.
Based on this work, we were satisfied that the preparation of these financial statements on a going concern basis is appropriate.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographical structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in which the group operates.
The group is structured into six geographical regions being Asia Middle East, Africa, Europe, Latin America, North America and the UK & Ireland UK&I.
A seventh corporate head office region is managed at a group level.
Each geographical region regional component is an aggregation of a number of country-based components along with the groups interests in joint ventures together the country components.
Each geographical region has a separate management team which coordinates the businesses within that region.
The groups accounting processes are structured around a local finance function in each of the country components, with the exception of the UK&I and North America regions where there are finance shared service centres supporting the UK and North American based businesses respectively.
The country components report to the regions and to the group through an integrated consolidation system.
In performing our audit, we determined that we needed to conduct audit work over the complete financial information of each of the regional components.
We therefore deployed regional component audit teams in each of the six regions to lead our interactions with regional management, to coordinate the audit work performed on the country components and to audit and report on the aggregated financial information of that region.
In addition to the six regional components, we performed audit testing over the corporate head office region at a group level.
Further specific audit procedures over central functions, the group consolidation and areas of significant judgement including taxation, goodwill and intangible assets impairment, treasury and post-retirement benefits were directly led by the group audit team.
Recognising that not every country component in each regional component is included in our group audit scope, we considered as part of our group audit oversight responsibility what audit coverage had been obtained in aggregate by our regional component teams by reference to country components at which audit work had been undertaken.
Beneath the regional component layer, the group financial statements are an aggregation of over 700 reporting units, each of which is considered to be a country component.
We identified 108 country component units that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures over significant balances and transactions were performed at a further 17 country component units to give appropriate coverage of all material balances.
None of the country components excluded from our group audit scope individually contributed more than 1% to consolidated revenue or to consolidated profit before tax.
112 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Where the work was performed by regional and country component audit teams, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those components.
As a result, five of the six regions were visited by senior members of the group audit team as a supplement to the regular dialogue between our group and regional teams and the issuance of instructions to direct their work.
Regional teams visited a further 10 country components performing oversight procedures under our instruction.
Given the restatements identified during the year relating to Denmark alarms, Africa balance sheet review and accounting for North America acquisitions and disposals, all three components were visited by senior members of the group audit team.
For those components in group audit scope where a site visit was not undertaken, our group and our regional component audit teams involvement included regular dialogue with our country component teams, review of component auditor work papers and participation in certain component audit clearance meetings.
We also held a two day audit planning workshop in London attended by our regional component teams, largely focused on the extensive planning of audit transition and our first year audit.
Taken together, the components and functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 86% of consolidated revenue, 78% of consolidated profit before tax and 87% of consolidated adjusted profit before tax.
This was before considering the contribution to our audit evidence from performing audit work at the regional and group levels, including disaggregated analytical review procedures and our evaluation of entity level controls, which covers a significant portion of the groups smaller and lower risk components that were not directly included in our group audit scope.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 13 million How we determined it Approximately 5% of profit before tax 78m, adjusted for non-recurring items, comprising net specific items 70m, goodwill impairments 66m, restructuring 44m and profit on disposal of businesses 12m.
Rationale for benchmark applied The groups principal measure of earnings is profit before interest, tax and amortisation adjusted for a number of items of income and expenditure including those detailed above PBITA.
Management uses this measure as it believes that it reflects the underlying performance of the group.
We took this measure into account in determining our materiality, except that we did not adjust profit before tax to add back acquisition-related amortisation and interest as in our view these are recurring items which do not introduce volatility to the groups earnings.
Component materiality For each regional and country component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that was less than overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated to each regional component was between 2m and 9.5m and to each country component was between 0.05m and 9m.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 700,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 95, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw to your attention other that the matters we have described in the going concern area of focus above.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit, we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 113 Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc continued Report on the financial statements Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading the statement given by the directors on page 95, in accordance with provision We have no exceptions C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider to report.
the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 68, as required by provision C. 3.8 of We have no exceptions the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately to report.
address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 63 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of add or to draw attention to.
the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how We have nothing material to they are being managed or mitigated.
add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 46 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the add or to draw attention to.
group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
114 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 95, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the strategic report and Directors report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 24 March 2016 Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 115
