INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, GKN plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the annual report and accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Context As a result of the acquisition of Fokker Technologies Group B. V. Fokker in late 2015 we have included an additional area of focus in relation to the opening balance sheet accounting.
The remaining areas we considered were consistent with the 2014 audit.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 18 million 2014: 22 million represents 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for the change in fair value of derivative and other financial instruments.
Following our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Group financial statements we Materiality performed audits of the complete financial information of 54 reporting units 2014: 56 reporting units, and specific audit procedures in a further 32 reporting units 2014: 24 reporting units and at one large joint venture in China.
Audit scope In addition, the Company and certain centralised functions, including those covering post-employment obligations, derivative financial instruments, UK and corporate taxation, goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments were audited.
The components on which audits of the complete financial information and centralised work was Area of performed accounted for 70% of Group revenue.
focus As part of our supervision process, the Group engagement team visited all significant components and a number of other component auditors in multiple locations in the Netherlandsandthe USA, as well as being responsible for allin scope UK reporting locations.
Our assessment of the risk of material misstatement also informed our views on the areas of particular focus for our work which are listed below: Assessment of the carrying value of the intangible and tangible assets relating to the A350 programme at Western Approach.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other relevant assets.
Assessment of the accounting position adopted on complex contractual obligations.
Assessment of the accounting position adopted on the opening balance sheet accounting for the Fokker acquisition.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
GKN plc 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
