STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 85 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Independent Auditors Report Group Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Genus plc Opinion on financial statements of Genus plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of Cash Flows, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 51.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the Other Statutory Disclosures section that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below, which are the same risks as were identified in the prior year, are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Fair value of biological assets under IAS 41 Agriculture The Group calculates the fair value of Our response to this risk considers the separate elements of the fair value biological assets through the use of calculations: the basis for managements estimates and judgements discounted cash flow models and recent applied in the key assumptions: the validity of transactional data used for transaction prices.
other inputs: and the mechanical integrity of the models themselves.
The valuation models and related data inputs For the bovine asset valuations, our audit work included obtaining an and assumptions require a number of understanding of managements processes surrounding the compilation of management estimates as explained in note the future demand, marketable life and production volume forecasts.
We 15 to the financial statements.
considered the appropriateness of projected volume growth rates against historical trends and current performance, and analysed managements For bovine asset valuations the key historical forecasting accuracy.
assumptions include: the future demand for semen: estimated production volume: For the porcine asset valuations our audit work included consideration of expected marketable life of each bull: the the appropriateness of managements assessment of the number of future discount rate applied to the future cash generations from which output is attributable to the current herd and flows: current market prices and the expected useful lives.
We tested the expected percentages of animals to be percentage of bulls which are expected to be sold, retained and slaughtered by reference to historical transactional data.
For all other assumptions in each model we challenged the significant estimates with reference to third party or historical transactional data as For porcine asset valuations the key appropriate.
assumptions include: the percentage of production animals expected to be sold: the For both species valuation models, we used internal valuation experts expected sales price: the expected useful life: inour testing of the discount rates applied to the cash flows.
the discount rate applied to the future cash flows: and for the pureline pigs the number We also tested the mechanical integrity of the spreadsheets used to of future generations from which output is calculate the fair values using analytical tools and performed sensitivity attributable to the current herd.
analyses on the key assumptions.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 86 Independent Auditors Report continued Group Financial Statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of pension schemes and postretirement benefits The Group operates several defined benefit In conjunction with our actuarial specialists, we have evaluated the pension schemes, for which there is appropriateness of managements methodology and assumptions used to judgement in determining the net deficit value the defined benefit pension schemes by benchmarking the valuation under IAS 19 of 63.1m as recorded assumptions to those used in the external market as at the same date.
at the balance sheet date.
The valuation is based on a number of assumptions disclosed In addition we circularised the independent actuaries and investment in note 28 such as the discount rate, inflation managers responsible for managing the pension funds to confirm the rate and life expectancy.
source inputs into the pension valuations.
Genus is party to the Milk Pension Fund, a In response to the risk of additional liabilities for the multi-employer multi-employer pension scheme and is scheme arising from other employers, we have considered the financial exposed to the risk of additional liabilities strength and stability of remaining employers in the scheme and their from the default of other scheme members ability to contribute to the deficit through a review of the most recent beyond its current 75% share of the liabilities.
Accounting for acquisitions Genus acquired two businesses during the In respect of the intangible assets identified, we involved our valuation year, Birchwood Genetics, Inc. and In Vitro specialists in our testing of the valuation model, including checking the Brasil S. A.
In relation to these acquisitions, appropriateness of the valuation methodology employed and 7.6m of intangible assets were identified benchmarking the discount rates applied against comparable companies.
which predominantly relate to customer relationships and technology assets as set We agreed the forecast cash flows used in the models to Board approved out in note 37. plans and understood the related key assumptions including the growth rate, with reference to recent performance.
The determination of the fair value of identified intangible assets is a matter of In respect of the carrying values of each of the put and call options, we management judgement.
The significant evaluated the consistency of managements forecasts with those used in assumptions include the growth rates the intangible assets valuation.
inherent in the forecast sales expected to be generated from the acquired customer relationships and technology: customer churn: royalty rates and the discount rate applied to the future cash flows.
The carrying values of each of the put and call options over the remaining 49% share capital of In Vitro Brasil S. A. require judgement as they are dependent on the companys future profitability.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 87 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of goodwill and capitalised development costs Goodwill Goodwill The Group has 73.9m of goodwill on its We challenged the assumptions used by management in their annual balance sheet, as set out in note 14.
There is a impairment assessment by comparing the projected growth rates and risk regarding potential impairment of the forecast cash flows against historical trends achieved in the business.
We carrying value of goodwill arising from analysed historical budgeting accuracy to assess the reliability of historical acquisitions.
We reviewed third party market data sources used by management in their forecast models.
In managements impairment assessment there are a number of key judgements used We reviewed managements identification of CGUs, which is consistent to determine the recoverable amount, with last year.
including the identification of cashgenerating units CGUs, growth rates in We agreed the projected cost savings from the GSS project to detailed future cash flow forecasts, the cost savings plans and forecasts.
to be derived from the Genus Sexed Semen GSS project and discount rates applied to We evaluated managements assessment of the sensitivity of the Groups these forecasts.
impairment assumptions to reasonably possible changes and considered the associated disclosures provided by the Group in relation to its impairment review within note 14.
We used valuation specialists within the audit team to challenge the discount rates applied to these cash flows by reference to market data, including the risk premium applied to each CGU.
This involved benchmarking the rates against other companies operating in similar regions.
Capitalised development costs Capitalised development costs There is also a risk regarding potential We tested the development costs capitalised to assess whether they meet impairment of development costs of 11.4m the criteria for capitalisation as set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
We capitalised in relation to the GSS project.
reviewed managements assessment of the carrying value of costs capitalised and challenged the assumptions applied to the total project valuation model including: the projected cash flows, growth rates and discount rates applied.
To corroborate the information contained within the valuation model we discussed the progress and future prospects with project managers and discussed the potential impact of the related litigation with management.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 60 to 63.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 2.3m 2014: 2.5m, which is 5.8% 2014: 7.5% of pre-tax profit before exceptional items and changes in fair value of biological assets, and below 1.0% of equity.
We have used this measure to eliminate volatility due to non-recurring items and fair value movements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.1m 2014: 0.1m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 88 Independent Auditors Report continued Group Financial Statements An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 20 2014: 21 components.
Twelve 2014: eleven of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining eight 2014: ten were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
The entities subject to a full scope audit represent the principal business units and other components and account for 85% 2014: 75% of the Groups net assets, 78% 2014: 69% of the Groups revenue and 86% 2014: 62% of the Groups operating profit.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
The entities subject to specified audit procedures account for 10% 2014: 19% of the Groups net assets, 14% 2014: 21% of the Groups revenue and 9% 2014: 29% of the Groups operating profit.
Our audit work at the 20 entities was executed at levels of materiality which were lower than Group materiality.
A senior member of the group audit team visits some of the more significant components each year.
We include all the component audit teams in our team briefing, review documentation of the findings from their work and attend their audit close meetings via conference call.
We also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 89 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Edward Hanson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 7 September 2015 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015
