INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC Report on the Company financial statements Adequacy of accounting records and information and Our opinion explanations received In our opinion, GKN plcs Company financial statements the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, financial statements : in our opinion: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as we have not received all the information and explanations we at 31 December 2015: require for our audit: or have been properly prepared in accordance with United adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the received from branches not visited by us: or Companies Act 2006. the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: and Directors remuneration the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 of significant accounting policies and other explanatory opinion information.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in Companies Act 2006. the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial Other Companies Act 2006 reporting statements and are identified as audited.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report preparation of the financial statements is United Kingdom arising from this responsibility.
Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Responsibilities for the financial statements and Accepted Accounting Practice.
the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Other required reporting As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Consistency of other information responsibilities set out on page 98, the directors are responsible Companies Act 2006 opinion for the preparation of the financial statements and for being In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the statements.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and information in the Annual Report is: only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other materially inconsistent with the information in the audited purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume financial statements: or responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
GKN plc 159 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC continued What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of GKN plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 22 February 2016 GKN plc 160 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
