Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc Areas of focus Report on the Group financial statements Three-part transaction with Novartis Our opinion Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the US In our opinion, GlaxoSmithKline plcs Group financial statements: Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs at Investigations into the Groups commercial practices 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: Litigation have been properly prepared in accordance with International Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Re-measurement of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent European Union: and consideration have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Uncertain tax positions Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Context Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB The context of our audit is set by the Groups major activities in As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the 2015.
The most significant event of the last twelve months has Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European been the completion of the Groups three-part transaction with Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Novartis AG.
This has therefore become a new area of focus for Accounting Standards Board IASB.
our audit in 2015 given the number of significant management In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs estimates and judgements required to account for the transaction as issued by the IASB.
including valuations of acquired assets and liabilities, the impact of acquisition accounting, recognition and measurement of a put What we have audited option liability and certain tax judgements and the broad range of The Group financial statements, included within the Annual Report, financial statement line items that are impacted.
comprise: At the same time, fewer markets migrated in 2015 compared to the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2015: either 2013 or 2014 onto the Groups common enterprise-wide the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement resource planning platforms ERP or moved financial transaction of comprehensive income for the year then ended: and accounting services to business process outsourcing locations BPO and to in-house business service centres the consolidated cash ow statement for the year then ended: BSC.
This decision was taken consciously by management the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year given the competing pressures on the organisation to complete then ended: and and integrate the Novartis transaction.
As a result, transformation of the Groups finance processes, highlighted as an area of focus the notes to the Group financial statements which include a in our 2014 report, was an area of lower risk in 2015 and is not summary of significant accounting policies and other included as an area of focus in the 2015 report.
expect this area to feature again as an area of focus in 2016 as Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the newly acquired Novartis businesses start to be migrated onto the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial GSKs centralised platforms.
These are cross-referenced from the financial We also added a new area of focus for the Groups estimation statements and are identied as audited.
of the fair value of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the consideration reecting the significant estimation uncertainty preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law inherent in the calculation of this balance and given the continued and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
increase in the size of this balance in response to changes in management estimates to address better than expected Our audit approach performance of acquired products and revisions to certain other Overview assumptions.
Following the resolution of the investigation into the Materiality Groups Chinese Pharmaceuticals business in September 2014 Overall group materiality: 200 million which represents and considering the output of our audit work over this risk in approximately 4% of profit before tax, adding back certain 2013 and 2014 our focus for 2015 was principally directed at the non-recurring items adjusted profit before tax.
financial reporting judgements relating to the active investigations by the Department of Justice DoJ in the US and Serious Fraud Audit scope Ofce SFO in the UK.
Our audit included full scope audits of 28 reporting components with specic audit procedures performed at a further 39 Our other areas of focus have been rened to reect developments reporting components.
in the Groups business including consideration of the expansion of healthcare reform and continued competitive pricing pressure Taken together, the components at which audit work was and discounting in the US, progress in litigation to which the performed accounted for 65% of consolidated revenue, 80% of Group is exposed, the impact of changes in the Groups segmental consolidated profit before tax and 76% of adjusted profit before reporting following the Novartis transaction on the determination of tax and covered all components that individually contributed more cash generating units CGUs for impairment testing purposes than 2% of revenue, profit before tax and adjusted profit before tax.
and managements assessment of uncertain tax positions.
GSK Annual Report 2015 131 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Independent Auditors report continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus procedures to verify proper cut-off of revenue and expenses and We conducted our audit in accordance with International testing the existence and accuracy of revenue transactions.
In Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
addition, we incorporate an element of unpredictability into our audit work each year.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting identied as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future how we tailored our audit to address these specic areas in order to events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also provide an opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, Any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the read in this context.
For each area of focus below, where directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to appropriate, we evaluated the design and tested the operating fraud, and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
Procedures effectiveness of key internal controls over financial reporting, designed and executed to address these risks included use of data including testing the operation of IT systems from which financial enabled auditing techniques to test journal entries and post-close information is generated.
This is not a complete list of all risks adjustments, testing and evaluating managements key accounting identied by our audit.
estimates for reasonableness and consistency, undertaking cut-off Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Three-part transaction with Novartis Deploying our valuations specialists, we audited the methodology, Refer to Notes 3, 30 and 38 in the Group financial statements.
underlying assumptions and mechanical accuracy of valuation models for each of the significant acquired intangible assets, consideration paid On 2 March 2015, the Group completed its three-part transaction with including contingent consideration and the settlement of pre-existing Novartis AG.
The Group acquired Novartis existing Vaccines business relationships.
We challenged the cash ow projections that underpinned for cash consideration of US$5.25 billion, disposed of its Oncology each of these valuations, including the Consumer put option, by comparing business for cash consideration of US$16.0 billion and each party to historical cash ows and understanding the reasons for the growth contributed its existing Consumer Healthcare business into a new prole of projections.
venture, in which the Group has a 63.5% controlling interest.
Deploying our tax specialists, we evaluated the external tax opinions We focused on this area because the accounting for each component of obtained by management to verify their technical accuracy and to validate the three-part transaction gave rise to the following significant audit risks: that the steps taken by the Group in effecting the transactions are The recognition of goodwill 1,350 million and intangible assets consistent with the external advice and opinions.
8,683 million on the acquisitions of Vaccines and the Novartis We instructed component teams at 13 locations to undertake certain Consumer Healthcare business: substantive procedures over the acquired opening balance sheets for Accounting for the establishment of the Consumer Healthcare joint Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, including attendance at inventory venture is complicated and required the fair valuing of the portion of counts close to the acquisition date, physical verication of assets acquired GSKs existing business contributed 4,116 million and of the nonand substantive procedures focused on revenue and cost cut-off.
controlling interest that arose on the acquisition 2,150 million : As a result of our work, we determined that the provisional purchase A number of internal restructuring steps were undertaken prior to price allocations for the Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare acquisitions the Oncology disposal and the Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines outlined in Note 38 to the Group financial statements were reasonable.
acquisitions in order to support these transactions in a tax efficient In connection with the Oncology disposal, we veried the cash proceeds manner: and and we reperformed managements calculation of the resultant gain on disposal.
We found that the pre-tax gain on disposal of Oncology of The Group recognised a liability for the present value of the expected 9,228 million and the associated tax charge of 1,920 million were redemption price of a written put option over Novartis non-controlling reasonably stated, with the latter reecting managements best estimate interest in the new Consumer Healthcare venture the Consumer of the incremental tax risk arising as a result of the three-part transaction.
put option, for which the value is subject to significant judgement We determined that the carrying value of the Consumer put option was and estimation uncertainty.
At 31 December 2015, this liability had a calculated in accordance with the agreement with Novartis, was based carrying value of 6,287 million.
on board approved projections for the business and was reasonably stated.
Finally, we found the disclosures in respect of each aspect of the transaction to be reasonable, providing a fair reection of the accounting and valuations judgements.
132 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the US We obtained managements calculations for accruals under applicable Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business schemes and validated the assumptions used by reference to the Groups Refer to Notes 3 and 27 in the Group financial statements.
stated commercial policies, the terms of the applicable contracts, third party data related to patient enrolment in US government funded benefit schemes The Group makes sales to various customers in the US that fall under and historical levels of product returns.
certain commercial and government mandated contracts and reimbursement arrangements, of which the most significant are Medicaid We compared the assumptions to contracted prices, historical rebates, and Medicare.
The Group also provides a right of return to its customers discounts, allowances and returns levels where relevant and to current for certain products.
We also considered the historical accuracy of the Groups estimates in previous years, including certain changes made to managements These arrangements result in deductions to gross sales in arriving at estimates in 2015 to update Medicaid rebates for a new pricing methodology turnover and give rise to obligations for the Group to provide customers and to respond to the impact of competitive pricing pressures particularly for with rebates, discounts, allowances and the right of return, which for Advair and greater discounting in the US market more generally.
We formed unsettled amounts are recognised as an accrual.
an independent expectation of the largest elements of the accrual at We focused on this area because rebates, discounts, allowances and 31 December 2015 using third party data and compared this expectation returns arrangements are complex and because establishing an appropriate to the actual accrual recognised by the Group.
accrual requires significant judgement and estimation by the directors.
This Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any material judgement is particularly complex in a US healthcare environment in which differences between our independent expectations and the accrual.
competitive pricing pressure and product discounting are growing trends.
The directors have determined an accrual of 1,464 million to be necessary at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 1,308 million.
Investigations into the Groups commercial practices We met with the directors, management, in-house legal counsel and spoke Refer to Notes 3, 29 and 45 in the Group financial statements.
with the Groups external advisors to assess the risk of occurrence of similar acts to those previously alleged in China, the status of ongoing The Group remains subject to ongoing investigations by the DoJ in the investigations and the potential for further fines and penalties.
This included US and the SFO in the UK into the Groups commercial practices in a understanding and evaluating the Groups internal investigations processes, number of markets.
At 31 December 2015, the Group has concluded which assess risks and allegations reported through various channels that it does not yet have sufficient clarity on the likely timing of the including whistle-blowing hotlines.
We also evaluated the ongoing completion of these investigations nor is it able to make a sufciently enhancements and changes that have been made to other control reliable estimate of any fines or penalties that either the DoJ or the processes and business practices since the original allegations in China in SFO might impose on the Group on completion of their respective 2013. investigations.
As a result, the Group has stated in note 45 that it is unable to recognise a provision for its estimate of the eventual outcome Deploying our forensic specialists, we assessed the scope and findings of of either investigation.
the investigative work performed by the Group as well as the risk assessment exercise that management has performed into third party interaction and In addition, the Group is carrying out its own investigations in a number engagement more broadly.
We used the output of this assessment to instruct markets to ascertain if activities similar to those previously alleged in ten component teams including certain markets not otherwise included in China have occurred elsewhere.
Group audit scope to undertake risk-focused audit procedures to address We focused on the following risks, which might have a material impact the audit risk that the Group financial statements might be materially on the Groups financial statements: misstated due to the potential financial implications of alleged illegal acts.
That fines and penalties might be forthcoming in respect of ongoing In respect of the DoJ and SFO investigations, we independently circularised investigations into the Groups commercial practices, including those external legal counsel engaged by the Group to obtain its views on the status by the DoJ and SFO, that could give rise to the need for material of the investigations and to ascertain the reasonableness of managements provisions or asset impairments: and assertions in respect of the likely outcome of each investigation.
We discussed the responses received directly with external legal counsel and found that they That illegal acts similar to those previously alleged in China have were consistent with the representations received from management.
occurred elsewhere in the Group.
We were satisfied with the Groups provisioning decisions at 31 December 2015 and with the adequacy of the disclosures given the status of these investigations.
Litigation We discussed the status of significant known actual and potential litigation Refer to Notes 3, 29 and 45 in the Group financial statements.
We obtained and substantively tested evidence to support the decisions and rationale for provisions held or decisions not to The pharmaceuticals industry is heavily regulated which increases record provisions, including correspondence with legal counsel and other inherent litigation risk.
The Group is engaged in a number of legal counter-parties to litigation.
We also monitored and considered external actions, including product liability, anti-trust and related private litigation, information sources to identify potential legal actions.
of which the most significant are disclosed in Notes 29 and 45.
We developed an independent expectation of the litigation provisions based We focused on this area as the eventual outcome of claims is uncertain on product litigation history and other available evidence to challenge the and the positions taken by the directors are based on the application of valuation and completeness of the provisions recognised by the Group.
Accordingly, unexpected adverse We obtained conrmations from external legal counsel to confirm our outcomes could signicantly impact the Groups reported profit and understanding of settled and outstanding litigation and asserted claims.
We evaluated significant adjustments to legal provisions recorded during the During the year, the most significant increase to the Groups litigation year to determine if they were indicative of management bias.
In respect of provisions was in respect of the Paxil product liability referred to in the increase in the provision for Paxil product liability litigation, we obtained Notes 29 and 45 which was reassessed following unsuccessful sufficient evidence to conclude that this increase was reasonable, including mediation with plaintiffs giving rise to a subsequent revision of review of external legal advice.
managements best estimate of settling these claims.
This increase was As disclosed in Notes 29 and 45 to the Group financial statements, the eventual more than offset by utilisation of existing provisions of 428 million.
outcome of legal proceedings is dependent on the outcome of future events and At 31 December 2015, the Group held provisions of 352 million in the position taken by the Group is inherently judgemental.
We found that in the respect of legal actions 31 December 2014 520 million.
context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole the judgements made by management were reasonable and the disclosures made in respect of these provisions and contingent liabilities were appropriate.
GSK Annual Report 2015 133 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Independent Auditors report continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Deploying our valuations specialists, we obtained the Groups impairment Refer to Notes 3, 18 and 19 in the Group financial statements.
analyses and tested the reasonableness of key assumptions, including profit and cash ow growth, terminal values, the impact of the expiry of patents, The Group has 16.0 billion of intangible assets 31 December 2014 potential product obsolescence and the selection of discount rates.
We 7.8 billion, comprising significant licenses, patents and acquired trade challenged management to substantiate its assumptions, including marks and excluding computer software.
In addition, the Group has comparing relevant assumptions to industry and economic forecasts.
5.2 billion of goodwill at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 3.7 billion.
The Group recognised impairments to these intangible We interrogated the integrity of supporting calculations and we corroborated assets amounting to 206 million during the year.
certain information with third party sources, including expectations of performance of certain assets and components of the business.
We obtained The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are contingent on and evaluated managements sensitivity analyses to ascertain the impact of future cash ows and there is risk if these cash ows do not meet the reasonably possible changes in key assumptions and we performed our own Groups expectations that the assets will be impaired.
The impairment independent sensitivity calculations to quantify the downside changes to reviews performed by the Group contained a number of significant managements models required to result in impairment.
judgements and estimates including revenue growth, the success of new product launches, patent expiry dates, profit margins, cash conversion, As a result of our work, we determined that the quantum of impairment terminal values and discount rate.
Changes in these assumptions might recognised in 2015 was appropriate.
For those intangible assets, including lead to a change in the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill.
goodwill, where management determined that no impairment was required, we found that these judgements were supported by reasonable assumptions During the year, the Group reduced its number of individual cash that would require unreasonable downside changes before any additional generating units CGUs for goodwill impairment testing purposes from material impairment was necessary.
eight to four, comprising Global Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Healthcare, Vaccines and ViiV Healthcare.
This exercise was undertaken to align the In respect of the aggregation of CGUs, we confirmed that this is the lowest CGUs to the Groups operating segments which were changed following level at which management monitors goodwill for internal purposes, that it the Groups restructuring following the Novartis transaction.
Through is consistent both with the way in which the Groups leadership team is this exercise, Vaccines has been treated as a separate CGU for the first structured and with how the Groups results and financial position are time and the Global Pharmaceuticals CGU aggregates pharmaceuticals reported to the CET and that no CGU for goodwill impairment testing businesses previously separated into the US, Europe, Japan, Emerging purposes is larger than any of the Groups new operating segments.
We focused on acquired intangible assets, as these are the most significant individually and in aggregate, and a number have indefinite lives, including the most significant of the intangible assets acquired from Novartis.
The Group has also recognised goodwill from a number of its acquisitions, including the three-part transaction with Novartis.
Re-measurement of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent Deploying our valuations specialists, we evaluated managements fair value consideration computation model, including the projections and key assumptions used Refer to Notes 3, 30, 38 and 41 in the Group financial statements.
We also compared the Groups projections for its dolutegravir products against certain third party expectations and found them to be When the Groups subsidiary, ViiV Healthcare, acquired the remaining reasonable.
In particular, we considered reasonably possible alternative 50% interest in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012, scenarios, comprising a downside case in the event that products launched 659 million was recognised as contingent consideration.
This by competitors cannibalise more of the Groups market share than anticipated represented the fair value of expected payments to be made to Shionogi, in managements base case and an upside case when the competitor contingent on future sales of dolutegravir products.
This liability is launches are less successful.
These scenarios result in contingent required to be re-measured to its fair value at each reporting date.
consideration liabilities that are materially lower and higher respectively.
Since its initial recognition, it has been increased in response to actual Notwithstanding this, we believe that the Group has a reasonable basis for and future sales signicantly exceeding original expectations.
At its determination of the fair value at 31 December 2015 and that the value 31 December 2015, the associated financial liability was 3,409 million reects managements best estimates.
We validated that the methodology was consistent with previous years, and We focused on this area as the fair value of the contingent consideration that where certain inputs were changed, such as discount and tax rates, we is determined by a number of significant unobservable inputs and by validated that appropriate triggers occurred in 2015 to support such management judgements and estimates, including forecast future sales changes.
We also veried that the updated assumptions were reasonable.
of Tivicay and Triumeq, the overall market size for HIV therapies and the We also validated that the Groups disclosures in respect of this liability, potential impact of competitor products launched in 2015 and expected including the disclosure of estimation uncertainty and its impact on the fair to be launched in the future.
In addition, the valuation is sensitive to value of the liability are reasonable.
changes in other assumptions, including discount and tax rates, both of which were revised in determining the valuation at 31 December 2015.
Uncertain tax positions In conjunction with our UK, US, international tax and transfer pricing Refer to Notes 3 and 14 in the Group financial statements.
specialists, we evaluated and challenged managements judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order to assess The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment and there the adequacy of the Groups tax provisions.
This included obtaining and are open tax and transfer pricing matters with UK and overseas tax evaluating certain third party tax opinions that the Group has obtained to authorities.
In addition, from time to time the Group enters into assess the appropriateness of any assumptions used.
transactions with complicated accounting and tax consequences, including the three-part transaction with Novartis in 2015.
Judgement In understanding and evaluating managements judgements, we considered is required in assessing the level of provisions required in respect of the status of recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries, the outturn uncertain tax positions.
At 31 December 2015, the Group has of previous claims, judgemental positions taken in tax returns and current year recognised provisions of 1,687 million in respect of uncertain tax estimates and developments in the tax environment.
From the evidence positions 2014 1,344 million.
obtained, we considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole.
However, we noted that the assumptions and judgements that are required to formulate the provisions mean that the range of possible outcomes is broad.
134 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information How we tailored the audit scope component teams, largely focused on the impact of the three-part We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed transaction with Novartis alongside other planning and risk enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Group financial assessment activities.
In addition, we visited four of the shared statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure service centres supporting reporting components in Group audit of the Group, the accounting processes and controls and the scope.
For those components in Group audit scope where a site visit industry in which the Group operates.
was not undertaken, our involvement included regular dialogue with our component teams, review of component auditor work papers and The Group financial statements are a consolidation of over 500 participation in certain component audit clearance meetings.
We identied 28 reporting components that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information Further specic audit procedures over central functions, the Group due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specic audit procedures consolidation and areas of significant judgement including taxation, over significant balances and transactions were performed at a goodwill, intangible assets, treasury, post-retirement benets, further 39 reporting components to give appropriate coverage litigation and the elimination of unrealised intercompany profit in of material balances.
Where these reporting components are inventory were directly led by the Group audit team.
supported by shared financial service centres, these centres Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed were also included in Group audit scope.
None of the reporting our audit work accounted for 65% of consolidated revenue, 80% of components not included in our Group audit scope individually consolidated profit before tax and 76% of adjusted profit before tax.
contributed more than 2% to consolidated revenue, profit before This was before considering the contribution to our audit evidence tax or adjusted profit before tax.
from performing audit work at the divisional and Group levels, Where the work was performed by component auditors, we including testing of monitoring controls and disaggregated analytical determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit review procedures, which covers a significant portion of the Groups work at those reporting component units.
As a result, nine overseas smaller and lower risk components that were not directly included in components were visited by senior members of the Group audit our Group audit scope.
In addition, we obtained audit evidence over certain out-of-scope components through the procedures we team, including each of the Groups nancially significant undertook at the Groups shared service centres, encompassing components in the US which are visited at least annually alongside BPOs and BSCs, and over centralised IT infrastructure where Belgium, Japan, Switzerland, Germany and India.
We also held a two these processes are standardised.
day audit planning workshop in London attended by 34 of our Materiality The scope of our audit was inuenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 200 million 2014 215 million.
How we determined it Approximately 4% of profit before tax 10,526 million, adding back certain non-recurring items including the re-measurement charge for the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration 1,874 million, the re-measurement charge of the Consumer Healthcare put option 83 million, major restructuring costs 1,896 million, legal costs 221 million, equity investment impairments 263 million and impairment of intangible assets 206 million and deducting non-recurring net income relating to major acquisition and disposal activity net 10,599 million.
Rationale for benchmark applied The Groups principal measure of earnings comprises core results, which adds back to statutory results a number of items of income and expenditure including those detailed above.
Management uses this measure as it believes that it eliminates the volatility inherent in one-off items.
We took this measure into account in determining our materiality, except that we did not adjust profit before tax to add back amortisation of intangible assets and certain other smaller non-core items as in our view these are recurring items which do not introduce volatility to the Groups earnings.
Materiality is lower than last year primarily due to the effect of lower profits in 2015.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to it misstatements identied during our audit above 10 million 2014 10 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing statement, set out on page 130, in relation to going concern.
We the Group financial statements.
The going concern basis have nothing to report having performed our review.
presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are also required to report to you if year from the date the Group financial statements were signed.
we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation As part of our audit, we have concluded that the directors use to the directors statement about whether they considered it of the going concern basis is appropriate.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or However, because not all future events or conditions can be to draw attention to.
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
GSK Annual Report 2015 135 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Independent Auditors report continued Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or to report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 130, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance We have no exceptions Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and to report.
provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 88, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no exceptions Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors conrmation in the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have We have nothing material to carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its add or to draw attention to.
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation in the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they We have nothing material to have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period add or to draw attention to.
to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group, set out on page 52.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of the if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
136 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Responsibilities for the financial statements Other matters and the audit We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended Our responsibilities and those of the directors 31 December 2015 and on the information in the directors As explained more fully in the directors statement of Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
responsibilities set out on page 130, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being The company has passed a resolution in accordance with section satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditors name should not be stated.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
 LLP This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with London Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 16 March 2016 purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Notes: where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
a The maintenance and integrity of the GlaxoSmithKline plc What an audit of financial statements involves website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility assurance that the financial statements are free from material for any changes that may have occurred to the financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an statements since they were initially presented on the website.
assessment of: b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and dissemination of financial statements may differ from circumstances and have been consistently applied and legislation in other jurisdictions.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
