Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of Opinion on financial statements of Glencore plc approval of the financial statements: and In our opinion the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 98 as to how they have give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups loss for the year they have done so and why they consider that period to be then ended: appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have have been properly prepared in accordance with a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall asadopted by the European Union: and due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary have been properly prepared in accordance with the qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going The financial statements comprise the Consolidated concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any Statement of Loss Income, the Consolidated Statement of such material uncertainties.
However, because not all Comprehensive Loss Income, the Consolidated Statement future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Cash isnot a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue Flows, the Consolidated Statement of Changes of Equity and asagoing concern.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law Independence and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled by the IASB our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, in standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In our opinion the financial statements comply with IFRSs The assessed risks of material misstatement described below as issued by the IASB.
are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, Going concern and the Directors assessment the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the of the principal risks that would threaten the efforts of the engagement team.
solvency or liquidity of the Group In arriving at our audit opinion on the financial statements, We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the we have considered any significant changes in the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting Groups operations and the broader market conditions contained within note 1 to the financial statements and that may influence the audit risk profile of the Group.
the Directors statement on the longer-term viability The announcement of the Groups capital preservation debt oftheGroup contained within the Governance section reduction plans on 7 September 2015 resulted in a newrisk of the Annual Report.
of material misstatement compared to the prior year and We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in a consequential change in our current year audit focus relation to: and effort.
the Directors confirmation on page 80 that they have Last year our report included a risk associated with carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks acquisition accounting with respect to the finalisation facing the Group, including those that would threaten its of theaccounting for the acquisition of Xstrata plc.
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: Accounting for this acquisition was finalised in the prior year and there were no material acquisitions in the current the disclosures on pages 28 - 35 and pages 80 - 84 that year, as such this risk has not been included as a key risk describe those risks and explain how they are being inthe current year.
managed or mitigated: The description of risks below should be read in the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial conjunction with the significant issues considered by the statements about whether they considered it appropriate Audit Committee discussed on page 86.
These matters to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial preparing them and their identification of any material statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
102 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Capital preservation Debt reduction plans On 7 September 2015, the Group announced a number To scope our audit and respond to the risks associated with of measures to preserve capital and reduce debt by the announced measures we have: 31 December 2016 in response to a lower commodity price undertaken a detailed assessment of each of the landscape.
An update of the measures was announced on announced measures to assess how they may impact 10 December 2015. theGroup and therefore our required audit response: Due to the bespoke nature of some of the specific measures enhanced our Group and component audit approach announced and the resultant market focus on them, we and risk assessment to address the risk of material identified a heightened key audit risk relating to potential misstatement and potential management bias associated management override and earnings management with with the transactions underlying these measures, respect to fair presentation and disclosure of financial particularly where significant judgements, estimates performance and position.
andassumptions are applied: Fair presentation and disclosure is achieved when the for individually material transactions relating to the transactions underpinning the announced measures announced measures that were completed during the havebeen recorded: year ended 31 December 2015, reviewed and tested when the transaction has occurred occurrence these with reference to supporting documentation and existence : e. g. contractual agreements and assessed the associated accounting treatment focusing on the fair presentation in accordance with the substance of the transaction and disclosure: and rightsand obligations and classification : developed specific responses for each announced in the correct amount in the appropriate accounting production curtailment and suspended operation through period measurement and cut-off : and additional focus on impairment of assets, retrenchment in accordance with the requirements of IFRS including and related restructuring provisions, accounting for appropriate presentation and disclosure presentation onerous contracts, impact on depreciation of assets and and disclosure.
cost capitalisation see Impairments below.
Refer to Key judgements within note 1 and additionally notes 11, 13, 20, and 23.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 103 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairments The carrying value of the Groups non-current assets, which We reviewed managements assessment of the indicators includes intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, of impairment and challenged the significant assumptions investments in associates and joint ventures, amounted to used in this initial review.
Where significant indicators of impairment were identified, The continued volatility in commodity prices to which the we utilised Deloitte mining valuation specialists to assess Group is significantly exposed and the Groups suspension the appropriateness of managements recoverable value or reduction in production of at several of the operations are models, which included the underlying model inputs and factors which heighten the risk of impairment associated significant assumptions.
with the Groups non-current assets.
We challenged the significant inputs and assumptions used Recoverability of these non-current assets is dependent in impairment testing for intangible assets, property, plant on macro-economic assumptions about future commodity and equipment, associates and joint ventures, specifically prices, discount and exchange rates as well as internal the commodity price, foreign exchange, assumed production assumptions related to future production levels and levels operating cost and discount rate assumptions, operating costs.
including consideration of the risk of management bias.
These estimates are particularly significant due to Our challenge included comparing inputs and significant commodity price volatility across the base metals and assumptions, such as commodity price, foreign exchange, energy assets, assumed future production and the uncertain and discount rates, to third party forecasts, Deloitte economic outlook.
The outcome of impairment assessments developed discount rates, production to life of mine plans could vary significantly were different assumptions applied.
and reserves and resources estimates, assessing whether assumptions had been applied on a consistent basis across In total, impairments amounting to $7,120 million were the Group.
recognised in the year ended 31 December 2015.
We performed sensitivity analyses on non-current Refer to Key estimates and assumptions within note 1 and assets, including those which were not identified as additionally notes 3 and 5. having indicators of impairment but have a higher risk of impairment due to lower available headroom in fair value models, volatility in key pricing assumptions or the existence of operational circumstances which may indicate potential impairment.
We also assessed the adequacy of impairment related disclosures in the financial statements.
Revenue recognition Revenue recognition has been identified as a risk primarily We carried out testing relating to internal controls, including relating to the following: IT general controls surrounding major IT applications and critical interfaces over revenue recognition and The completeness and accuracy of the capture of completeness and accuracy of trade capture.
trades within the trade book and the timing of revenue recognition for commodity sales with deliveries occurring On a sample basis, we agreed deliveries occurring near on or around year end 31 December 2015 to supporting documentation to assess that the IFRS revenue recognition criteria were met for Judgement is required to determine when risks and recognised sales and obtained third party confirmations rewards have transferred under certain contractual where relevant to check completeness and accuracy of arrangements with third parties trade books.
Due to the significant volume of transactions and the We also performed testing on journal entries using complexity of the supporting IT systems, minor errors computer assisted profiling techniques to test for any could, in aggregate, have a material impact on the management override of internal controls related to financial statements revenue recognition.
104 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Fair value measurements within the marketing operations Determination of fair values of marketing inventories, We carried out internal control testing over managements financial assets and liabilities is a complex and subjective processes for determining inputs to fair value measurements area often requiring significant estimates, particularly and performed detailed substantive testing on a sample where valuations utilise unobservable inputs e. g. credit risk basis of the related fair value measurements.
We specifically assessments, market volatility and forecast operational tested the evidence supporting unobservable inputs estimates.
At 31 December 2015, total Level 3 Other utilised in Level 3 measurements in the fair value hierarchy financial assets and liabilities amounted to $224 million as outlined in note 27 to the financial statements, which and$392 million respectively.
included reviews of broker quotes, recent transactions and other supporting documentation.
As the Groups marketing inventories and other financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value at each reporting date, these fair value measurements significantly impact the Groups results.
Refer to Key estimates and assumptions within note 1 andadditionally notes 26 and 27.
Classification of financial instruments Further to the above, classification of contracts relating We obtained an understanding of the trading strategies tothe Groups marketing operations is a judgemental area, and associated product flows within the Groups marketing particularly sales contracts where the Group physically departments.
We analysed the trade books to identify delivers its own production to a third party own incidents where contracts were not physically delivered use, rather than those which form part of the Groups net settled, which may indicate tainting of the own use marketing operations.
Differences in classification affect recognition of associated Where a contract had been net settled, we checked that the gains and losses as contracts which are own use are contract was appropriately ring-fenced from the own use exempt from mark-to-market accounting.
trade book and marked to market reflecting the underlying facts and circumstances.
Classification of the Groups financial instruments within the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position requires an We assessed the adequacy of related disclosures in the assessment of the relevant contractual terms e. g. to identify financial statements in accordance with the requirements embedded derivatives and in some cases the application of IFRS.
Refer to notes 26 and 27. Credit and performance risk The Group is exposed to credit and performance risk arising We undertook internal control testing of the Groups from the Groups global marketing operations and trade centralised and local credit and performance risk advances, particularly in markets demonstrating significant monitoring procedures.
price volatility with limited liquidity and terminal markets.
We challenged managements assessment of the This risk is heightened in times of increased price volatility, recoverability of aged and overdue receivables, loans and where suppliers may be incentivised to default on delivery advance payments with delayed or overdue deliveries, and customers are unable to make payments.
considering historical patterns of trading and settlement aswell as recent communications with the counterparties.
At 31 December 2015, total Advances and loans and Accounts receivable amounted to $3,005 million and In addition, we made specific inquiries to understand $17,001 million respectively.
positions in commodities across the Group given the high price volatility during the year, particularly with respect Refer to notes 11, 13 and 26. tobase metals, energy and certain agricultural products.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 105 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Taxation There is significant judgement around accounting for We undertook a specific assessment of the material income taxes particularly in light of the number of components impacting the Groups tax expense, balances jurisdictions in which the Group operates, including and exposures and performed detailed audit procedures judgements concerning residency of key corporate inrelation to these.
operations and holding companies, provisioning for We considered the appropriateness of managements tax exposures, application of transfer pricing rules, the assumptions and estimates in relation to the likelihood of recognition of deferred income tax assets and the taxation generating future taxable profits to support the recognition impacts of any corporate restructurings.
of deferred tax assets with reference to forecast taxable This gives rise to complexity and uncertainty in respect of profits and consistency of these forecasts with the the calculation of income taxes and deferred tax assets and Groups budgets.
consideration of contingent liabilities associated with tax We reviewed and challenged managements assessment years open to audit.
of uncertain tax positions and conclusions on complex tax As at 31 December 2015, the Group has recorded a tax arrangements through discussions with the Group taxation expense of $98 million, $3,931 million of net deferred tax department, reviewing correspondence with local tax liabilities and has disclosed its assessment of tax-related authorities, reviewing third party expert tax opinions and contingent liabilities in note 30. utilising Deloitte tax specialists, where appropriate, to assess the adequacy of associated provisions and disclosures.
Refer to Key judgements within note 1 and additionally notes 6 and 30.
106 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Audits undertaken at the component level for Group Our application of materiality reporting purposes were performed at levels of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement applicable to each individual entity of which were lower in the financial statements that makes it probable that the than Group materiality and ranged from $6 million to a economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person maximum of $100 million 2014: $2 million to $100 million.
would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both inplanning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would the results of our work.
report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $10 million 2014: $10 million, as well as differences below We determined materiality for the Group to be $210 million that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on 2014: $300 million, which is approximately 6.0% of qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee normalised three-year average pre-tax profit 2014: 6.4% of on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the 2014 pre-tax profit, and equates to less than 1% 2014: 1% overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Materiality Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide USD 3,519m USD 210m controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on our continuing assessment, USD 210m 6.0% we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 51 components 2014: 51 Group components, USD 100m representing the Groups most material marketing operations and industrial assets, and utilised 19 component USD 10m audit teams 2014: 20 component audit teams in 17 countries Normalised three-year average PBT Group materiality 2014: 18 countries : Maximum Component materiality Audit Committee reporting threshold 34 of these were subject to a full scope audits 2014: 36 components : and In the current year, we have reassessed our methodology 17 were subject to specified audit procedures where for the determination of materiality going forward by the extent of our testing was based on our assessment using a percentage of normalised three-year average of the risks of material misstatement and of the 2013 2015 of pre-tax profits instead of a percentage of materiality of the Groups operations at those locations current year normalised pre-tax profit.
approach was determined to be more appropriate given the nature of the mining industry which is exposed to cyclical These 51 components account for 90% of the Groups net commodity price fluctuations and to therefore provide a assets 2014: 95%, 89% of the Groups revenue 2014: 89% more stable base reflective of the scale of the Groups size and 88% of the Groups adjusted EBITDA 2014: 93%.
The above mentioned reduction in Group materiality The pre-tax profits for the 2013 2015 years have been from 2014 did not significantly impact our assessment of audit coverage because of the significant number of normalised in determining materiality to exclude items which, due to their nature and or expected infrequency marketing and industrial components already within Group audit scope.
of the underlying events, are not considered indicative of continuing operations of the Group and so do not form part of the Groups internally or externally monitored primary KPIs, and which if included, would distort materiality year on year.
These normalising items are outlined in notes 3 and 4 to the financial statements.
Additionally, the pro forma pre-tax profit for the 2013 year incorporating a full year of the acquired Xstrata business was utilised to consistently reflect the current scale of the Group.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 107 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc Net assets Revenue Matters on which we are required to report by exception 10 11 Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records 1 Under the Companies Jersey Law, 1991 we are required 18 toreport to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations 72 88 we require for our audit: or proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Adjusted EBITDA Coverage percentages the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Full scope audits 12 We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
6 Specified audit procedures Corporate Governance Statement Analytical procedures Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the 82 part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to the auditors of these Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report in-scope components.
These detailed audit instructions Under International Standards on Auditing UK and specified areas of audit focus, identified the risks of material Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, misstatement assessed by the Group audit team and set out information in the Annual Report is: the information to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The instructions were updated during the audit in respect of materially inconsistent with the information in the any changes deemed necessary by the Group audit team in audited financial statements: or response to changes in the business or risk assessment.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially The Group audit team continued to follow a programme inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired of regular face-to-face meetings with components that has in the course of performing our audit: or been designed so that the Group Audit Partner or another otherwise misleading.
senior member of the Group audit team periodically meets with local management and the component audit team on a In particular, we are required to consider whether we have rotational basis.
In 2015, the Group audit team held meetings identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge with 25 components 2014: 24 components.
acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced Additionally, for all in-scope components, the Group audit and understandable and whether the Annual Report team was involved in the audit work performed by the appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated component auditors through a combination of our global to the Audit Committee which we consider should have planning conference call meetings, provision of referral been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any instructions, review and challenge of related component such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
inter-office reporting and of findings from their work which included the audit procedures performed to respond to Other matters risks of material misstatement, attendance at component In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration audit closing conference calls and regular interaction on any report to be audited has been properly prepared in related audit and accounting matters which arose.
accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation 2006 as if that Act had applied to the Company.
process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject toaudit or audit of specified account balances.
108 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Respective responsibilities of Directors Scope of the audit of the financial statements andauditor An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or independent partner reviews.
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us This report is made solely to the Companys members, as in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we Jersey Law, 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken consider the implications for our report.
so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and or those further matters we have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other Matthew Sheerin, ACA CA AUS than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor have formed.
London, UK 7 March 2016 Glencore Annual Report 2015 109 Financial statements Consolidated statement of loss income For the year ended 31 December 2015 US$ million Notes 2015 2014 Revenue 170,497 221,073 Cost of goods sold 166,982 214,344 Selling and administrative expenses 1,271 1,304 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 10 101 638 Losses gains on disposals and investments 3 994 715 Other expense net 4 7,998 1,073 Dividend income 25 19 Interest income 191 253 Interest expense 1,585 1,724 Loss income before income taxes 8,016 4,253 Income tax expense 6 98 1,809 Loss income for the year 8,114 2,444 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 3,150 136 Equity holders 4,964 2,308 Loss earnings per share: Basic US$ 16 0.37 0.18 Diluted US$ 16 0.37 0.18 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
110 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Consolidated statement of comprehensive loss income For the year ended 31 December 2015 US$ million Notes 2015 2014 Loss income for the year 8,114 2,444 Other comprehensive loss income Items not to be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods: Defined benefit plan actuarial gains losses, net of tax of $34 million 2014: $58 million 22 92 196 Net items not to be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods: 92 196 Items that are or may be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods: Exchange loss on translation of foreign operations 1,795 852 Foreign currency exchange losses recycled to the statement of income 3 24 311 Losses gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax of $42 million 2014: $3 million 89 415 Share of comprehensive loss from associates and joint ventures 10 26 23 Loss gain on available for sale financial instruments 10 488 501 Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of income, net of tax of $nil 2014: $nil 1 Net items that are or may be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods: 2,087 40 Other comprehensive loss 1,995 156 Total comprehensive loss income 10,109 2,288 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 3,217 130 Equity holders 6,892 2,158 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
