Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Report on the parent company financial Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you statements if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration Our Opinion specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report In our opinion, GlaxoSmithKline plcs parent company financial arising from this responsibility.
statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys Responsibilities for the financial statements affairs at 31 December 2015: and the audit have been properly prepared in accordance with United Our responsibilities and those of the directors Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and As explained more fully in the Directors statement of have been prepared in accordance with the requirements responsibilities set out on page 211, the directors are responsible of the Companies Act 2006. for the preparation of the financial statements and for being What we have audited satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the comprise: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs the Company balance sheet at 31 December 2015: UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the the Company statement of changes in equity for the year then Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
ended: and This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where statements and are identied as audited.
The financial reporting expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial What an audit of financial statements involves statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance Other required reporting that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Consistency of other information whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Companies Act 2006 opinion companys circumstances and have been consistently applied In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and adequately disclosed: and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made financial statements.
by the directors: and ISAs UK & Ireland reporting the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited We test and examine information, using sampling and other financial statements: or auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, in the course of performing our audit: or substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the Adequacy of accounting records and information and audited financial statements and to identify any information that is explanations received apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the you if, in our opinion: audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements we have not received all the information and explanations we or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
require for our audit: or Other matter adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of received from branches not visited by us: or GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2015. the financial statements and the part of the Directors The company has passed a resolution in accordance with section Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditors the accounting records and returns.
name should not be stated.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration  LLP Directors Remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to London be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 16 March 2016 Companies Act 2006.
