INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the In our opinion the financial statements: financial statements as a whole.
We have used an earnings based measure give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at as our basis of materiality consistent with how performance is measured for 27 June 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 4.38 million have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 2014: 3.95 million, which is 5 per cent of profit before exceptional items by the European Union: and and tax being the profit before tax of 78.7 million plus the exceptional have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the items charge of 8.8 million.
We excluded exceptional items on the basis Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
that these are infrequent in occurrence and are not indicative of the underlying performance of the Group.
We also note that market and analyst OVERVIEW commentary on the performance of the Group uses an equivalent measure.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 4.38 million 5% We therefore, considered profit before exceptional items and tax to be of profit before exceptional items and tax the most relevant performance metric on which to base our materiality Audit scope An audit involves obtaining evidence about the calculation.
This provided the basis for determining the nature, timing amounts and disclosures in the Group financial and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of that the financial statements are free from material further audit procedures.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of We have obtained an understanding of the entitythe Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that overall performance materiality for the Group should be 50 per cent of materiality, level controls of the Group which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement namely 2.19 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach is to ensure due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in that, together with qualitative considerations, total detected and undetected audit differences do not exceed our planning materiality of 4.38 million for determining the most appropriate audit strategy, the financial statements as a whole.
including the scope of procedures to be performed on the components of the Group.
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage of our total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for We performed an audit of the complete financial each component is based on the relative size of the component and our information of nine components and audit procedures view of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year on specific balances, where we consider the risk the range of performance materiality allocated to components was of material misstatement to be higher, for a further 0.44 million to 1.75 million 2014: 0.39 million to 1.54 million.
These seventeen reporting components account for 100 per cent of the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Groups revenue and 100 per cent of the Committee all adjusted and unadjusted audit differences in excess of Groups profit before exceptional items and tax.
We also agreed to report differences below those thresholds that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We The nine reporting components where we performed evaluated any uncorrected misstatements against both quantitative an audit of the complete financial information account measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant for 97.2 per cent of the Groups revenue and 97.5 qualitative considerations.
per cent of the Groups profit before exceptional items and tax SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Areas of focus Revenue recognition An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Non-compliance with franchise terms and conditions financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Estimation of provisions for liabilities and charges by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Accounting for the Groups pension liabilities policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Carrying value of goodwill accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of What has changed Changes in our scope since the 2014 audit included the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial one additional new full scope reporting component information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material being the Groups new rail franchise Govia inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any Thameslink Railway Limited.
information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially In 2014, we did not visit or perform any detailed inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing testing at five of the smaller bus operating companies.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or In the current year we have visited these locations inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
and performed specific procedures relating to the risk Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group of material misstatement in respect of revenue.
financial statements, we selected seventeen 2014: eleven components which represent the business units within the Groups reportable segments and OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY account for 100 per cent of the Groups revenue and 100 per cent of the We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our Groups profit before exceptional items and tax of which 97.2% and 97.5% audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the of these metrics were covered by full scope components.
For the purposes of determining whether the financial of these components were subject to a full audit and eight 2014: three statements are free from material misstatement we define materiality as were subject to audits of specific account balances based on our judgement the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic of risk and materiality.
The additional component subject to a full audit, decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial compared to the prior year, was the Groups new rail franchise Govia statements, would be changed or influenced.
We also determine a level Thameslink Railway Limited.
In 2014, we did not visit or perform any of performance materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing detailed testing at five of the smaller bus operating companies.
In the current needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the year we have visited these locations and performed specific procedures aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality relating to the risk of material misstatement in respect of revenue.
for the financial statements as a whole.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 88 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude The Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the Group audit team dilapidations all balances were covered in our scope allocation, the of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the participated in the execution of the audits of ten of the full scope and specific Senior Statutory Auditor had oversight of our audit response across the In our opinion the financial statements: financial statements as a whole.
We have used an earnings based measure scope components, as well as Group-wide areas, in accordance with our components, including reviewing the results of the audit testing and give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at as our basis of materiality consistent with how performance is measured for assessment of risk.
The Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the discussing the risks with the component teams.
27 June 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 4.38 million Group audit team also attended meetings with management and engaged OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 2014: 3.95 million, which is 5 per cent of profit before exceptional items with the audit team on planning and execution of our work at the other two by the European Union: and MISSTATEMENT AND OUR AUDIT RESPONSE and tax being the profit before tax of 78.7 million plus the exceptional components, including reviewing key working papers.
In respect of the risks We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on the have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the items charge of 8.8 million.
We excluded exceptional items on the basis described below, audit procedures in respect of the estimation of provisions overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
that these are infrequent in occurrence and are not indicative of the for uninsured claims, accounting for pension liabilities and the testing of the the efforts of the engagement team.
For each risk identified, we have underlying performance of the Group.
We also note that market and analyst carrying value of goodwill were completed by the Group team, overseen OVERVIEW documented our response and audit procedures below: commentary on the performance of the Group uses an equivalent measure.
by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
In respect of the other risks: revenue Materiality Overall Group materiality of 4.38 million 5% We therefore, considered profit before exceptional items and tax to be recognition, non-compliance with franchise terms and conditions all rail of profit before exceptional items and tax the most relevant performance metric on which to base our materiality operating companies were full scope components and provisions for Audit scope An audit involves obtaining evidence about the calculation.
This provided the basis for determining the nature, timing amounts and disclosures in the Group financial and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk Risk of material misstatement Our response to the risks of material misstatement included the following procedures statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of Revenue recognition as described in notes 2 and 4 of the financial We understood the processes used to record the different income streams that the financial statements are free from material further audit procedures.
statements of the Group, in particular identifying the points at which manual adjustments misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of were made to system and third party generated information, in order to test Market expectations and profit based targets may place pressure on We have obtained an understanding of the entitythe Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that overall the nature, appropriateness and completeness of manual adjustments to Management to distort revenue recognition, this therefore increases the risk of performance materiality for the Group should be 50 per cent of materiality, level controls of the Group which assisted us in reflect the accrual or deferral of revenue.
material misstatement in respect to measurement and occurrence of revenue.
identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement namely 2.19 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach is to ensure This may result in overstatement or deferral of revenues to assist in meeting We agreed routine automated revenue to cash settlements including due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in that, together with qualitative considerations, total detected and undetected current or future targets or expectations.
those generated through the Rail Settlement Plan.
audit differences do not exceed our planning materiality of 4.38 million for determining the most appropriate audit strategy, Whilst a large proportion of the revenue recorded is derived from system We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted complied the financial statements as a whole.
including the scope of procedures to be performed generated reports on ticket sales and cash settlements, adjustments are with IFRS.
on the components of the Group.
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage also required to appropriately accrue or defer revenue for: We examined managements underlying assumptions and methodology of our total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for We performed an audit of the complete financial advance sales of tickets and season tickets both rail and bus used to calculate manual adjustments to revenue relating to accrued and each component is based on the relative size of the component and our information of nine components and audit procedures concessionary fare income bus deferred income, comparing to post year end receipt where applicable, view of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year on specific balances, where we consider the risk passenger numbers and latest correspondence with the relevant authorities.
performance related revenue from Transport for London bus the range of performance materiality allocated to components was of material misstatement to be higher, for a further We also compared the assumptions and methodology used to those used 0.44 million to 1.75 million 2014: 0.39 million to 1.54 million.
These seventeen reporting income allocations due for rail tickets in the prior year to test whether a consistent approach had been utilised, components account for 100 per cent of the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the The revenue relating to the rail operating companies is also governed by For material items we re-performed the calculation to confirm the accuracy Groups revenue and 100 per cent of the Committee all adjusted and unadjusted audit differences in excess of complex franchise arrangements with mechanisms in place to determine of the accrued and deferred income recorded by management.
Groups profit before exceptional items and tax.
We also agreed to report differences below those thresholds revenue support or revenue share depending on performance outcomes We performed analytical procedures and journal entry testing in order that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We The nine reporting components where we performed relative to original forecasts at the start of the franchise.
This is further to identify material adjustments made to revenue and test the risk of evaluated any uncorrected misstatements against both quantitative an audit of the complete financial information account discussed below in our risk relating to non-compliance with franchise terms fraud arising from management override of controls.
measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant for 97.2 per cent of the Groups revenue and 97.5 and conditions.
per cent of the Groups profit before exceptional Non-compliance with franchise terms and conditions as described on We tested the Groups process for identifying and monitoring compliance items and tax SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS page 64 of the Audit Committee Report with the requirements of the franchise agreements and related bid models, Areas of focus Revenue recognition An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures which have a financial consequence.
This included discussion with the This specifically relates to the four rail operating companies of the Group.
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the compliance team at each of the train operating companies and reviewing Each franchise is governed by an individual franchise agreement setting out Non-compliance with franchise terms and conditions financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused correspondence with the Department for Transport for evidence of arrangements covering entitlement to revenue, costs and performance Estimation of provisions for liabilities and charges by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting additional liabilities requiring recognition, or the resolution of issues for conditions.
Accounting for the Groups pension liabilities policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been which a liability had previously been recognised.
Performance conditions are significant and need to be monitored to ensure consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Carrying value of goodwill compliance.
Issues with non-compliance can result in penalties or the We obtained information on changes in agreements during the year accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of requirement to fulfil certain obligations which would create a risk over and tested whether the financial impact of such changes had been What has changed Changes in our scope since the 2014 audit included the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial the completeness of costs and liabilities.
appropriately reflected in the financial statements.
one additional new full scope reporting component information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material These franchise agreements are complex and result in different arrangements being the Groups new rail franchise Govia We re-assessed matters brought forward from prior years to consider inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any in respect of Department for Transport funding of rail operations.
For example Thameslink Railway Limited.
the appropriateness of related accruals, provisions and disclosures.
information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially in respect of: In 2014, we did not visit or perform any detailed We assessed whether any items that were recorded in the income inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing subsidies for specific activities required under the franchise agreement testing at five of the smaller bus operating companies.
statement warranted separate disclosure as exceptional items because the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or In the current year we have visited these locations revenue support and revenue share arrangements dependent on of their size or nature.
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
and performed specific procedures relating to the risk passenger volumes We considered whether Department for Transport funding had been Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group of material misstatement in respect of revenue.
profit share arrangements appropriately accounted for, in accordance with IFRS, in the context of financial statements, we selected seventeen 2014: eleven components which each individual franchise agreement.
represent the business units within the Groups reportable segments and agency arrangements in respect of rail ticket income at GTR OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY account for 100 per cent of the Groups revenue and 100 per cent of the We tested the estimates used in determining the valuation and timing We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our Due to the complexity, there is a risk that the financial statements do not Groups profit before exceptional items and tax of which 97.2% and 97.5% of revenue and cost recognition, considering whether the conditions audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the appropriately reflect the related revenue and cost of these items in terms of these metrics were covered by full scope components.
Nine 2014: eight for recognition of related assets and liabilities had been met under IFRS.
For the purposes of determining whether the financial of completeness, measurement and occurrence.
of these components were subject to a full audit and eight 2014: three statements are free from material misstatement we define materiality as The franchise agreements also set out terms in respect of maintenance were subject to audits of specific account balances based on our judgement the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic of infrastructure, this matter is addressed in the risk relating to estimation of risk and materiality.
The additional component subject to a full audit, decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial of provisions for liabilities and charges compared to the prior year, was the Groups new rail franchise Govia statements, would be changed or influenced.
com 89 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC CONTINUED Risk of material misstatement Our response to the risks of material misstatement included the following procedures Estimation of provisions for liabilities and charges as described on page 64 We understood the level of internal and external expert involvement used in of the Audit Committee Report and in note 24 of the financial statements estimating liabilities.
External experts are utilised by management to assess dilapidation provisions for the train operating companies and to assess The Groups provisions are based on managements best estimate of notified uninsured claims.
Our testing included understanding the terms outcomes using assumptions that require judgement, because of the high level of reference of those external experts, their competence and objectivity.
of judgement the financial statement balance is more at risk of manipulation or error.
The highest risks relate to completeness and valuation of the liabilities For dilapidations liabilities, we obtained the contract documentation for which could be understated to enhance the results of the Group.
maintenance of rolling stock, stations and depots, to assess the relevant Provisions are made for: terms and conditions and consider whether these contracts gave rise to a liability.
Where previously provided amounts were re-estimated we dilapidation commitments under lease handback conditions for property, obtained evidence for changes including details of contract amendments.
bus and rolling stock fleet, depots and stations 60.1m Where no movement occurred, we considered whether the assumptions uninsured claims in respect of transport incidents 41.3 million used previously to estimate the liability remain reasonable.
For uninsured claims, we utilised information on claims over the past seven years to assess trends in settlement values in terms of growth from original assessed liability and value of settlement.
For both dilapidation liabilities and uninsured claims, we obtained information on settlements made in the year of previously provided liabilities, to understand how these compared with the quantification previously recorded and to assess the quality of estimates made by management and their independent experts.
We met with in-house legal counsel to obtain up to date information on additional claims or disputes.
We reviewed board and subcommittee minutes for evidence of the existence of further liabilities and external legal correspondence for the existence of any further contractual issues.
We assessed whether each of the liabilities were appropriately classified between accruals, provisions and contingent liabilities against the recognition and measurement criteria of IFRS.
For those items classified as provisions, we assessed whether appropriate disclosure had been given in the financial statement as required by IFRS.
We assessed whether any items that were recorded in the income statement warranted separate disclosure as exceptional items because of their size or nature.
Accounting for the Groups pension liabilities as described on page 64 of We utilised our own actuarial experts to benchmark and consider an the Audit Committee Report and in note 27 of the financial statements appropriate range for the key assumptions underpinning the calculation of the pension liabilities being discount rate, price inflation, salary increases and The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme which is closed to mortality in retirement.
new entrants and future accrual and its train operating companies participate in the Rail Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme.
We also utilised our own actuarial experts to assess the appropriateness of The liabilities recorded in respect of these defined benefit schemes are sensitive the methodology used by managements actuaries to calculate the liabilities to long-term assumptions, small changes in these assumptions can result in for the pension schemes.
material fluctuations in amounts recorded in the financial statements.
For We tested the membership data utilised by the actuaries, to source data example the discount rate could be overstated in order to reduce the pension held by the pension scheme administrators liability shown in the balance sheet and increase the net assets of the Group.
We reviewed the adequacy of pension disclosures provided in the financial statements and compliance with the requirements of IAS 19 revised.
Carrying value of goodwill as described on page 64 of the Audit We evaluated the cash flow forecasts and key assumptions, agreeing Committee Report and in note 13 of the financial statements assumptions made to supporting evidence, such as corporate plans and current performance The value of goodwill is 75.9 million and relates to acquisitions of bus operating companies.
The recoverable value is sensitive to changes in We compared the latest plans with prior year plans and assessed changes assumptions over future business performance by each of the relevant in these plans over time and the historic accuracy of managements forecasts operating companies and discount rates.
The Groups annual assessment as an indicator of the reliability of current forecasts of the recoverable value requires judgement as to the future cash flow We performance sensitivity analysis over data including growth rates, projections and the discount rate to be used.
Cash flow projections may forecast cashflows in respect of costs and revenue be overstated and the discount rate understated in order to provide a We audited the discount rate calculation applied, using our internal valuation calculation of the recoverable value in excess of the carrying value, so experts to assist in our review of whether managements assumptions are that no impairment is recorded.
within an acceptable range based on comparative market data We confirmed the clerical accuracy of the models We assessed whether disclosures made are in accordance with IFRS The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 90 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC CONTINUED Risk of material misstatement Our response to the risks of material misstatement included the following procedures In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Estimation of provisions for liabilities and charges as described on page 64 We understood the level of internal and external expert involvement used in We have audited the financial statements of the Go-Ahead Group plc for directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and of the Audit Committee Report and in note 24 of the financial statements estimating liabilities.
External experts are utilised by management to assess the year ended 27 June 2015 which comprise the Consolidated Income understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those dilapidation provisions for the train operating companies and to assess Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the The Groups provisions are based on managements best estimate of matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider notified uninsured claims.
Our testing included understanding the terms Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance outcomes using assumptions that require judgement, because of the high level should have been disclosed.
of reference of those external experts, their competence and objectivity.
Sheet, the Consolidated Cashflow Statement and the related notes 1 to 28. of judgement the financial statement balance is more at risk of manipulation or The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation error.
The highest risks relate to completeness and valuation of the liabilities Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, For dilapidations liabilities, we obtained the contract documentation for is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as which could be understated to enhance the results of the Group.
in our opinion: maintenance of rolling stock, stations and depots, to assess the relevant adopted by the European Union.
Provisions are made for: terms and conditions and consider whether these contracts gave rise to certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not a liability.
Where previously provided amounts were re-estimated we dilapidation commitments under lease handback conditions for property, This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in made: or obtained evidence for changes including details of contract amendments.
bus and rolling stock fleet, depots and stations 60.1m accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit we have not received all the information and explanations we require Where no movement occurred, we considered whether the assumptions work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members uninsured claims in respect of transport incidents 41.3 million for our audit.
used previously to estimate the liability remain reasonable.
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, For uninsured claims, we utilised information on claims over the past seven we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company years to assess trends in settlement values in terms of growth from original the directors statement, set out on page 87, in relation to going and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, assessed liability and value of settlement.
concern: and or for the opinions we have formed.
For both dilapidation liabilities and uninsured claims, we obtained the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS information on settlements made in the year of previously provided the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK liabilities, to understand how these compared with the quantification Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
AND AUDITOR previously recorded and to assess the quality of estimates made by As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out OTHER MATTER management and their independent experts.
on page 87, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our We met with in-house legal counsel to obtain up to date information of The Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 27 June 2015 and on the responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements on additional claims or disputes.
We reviewed board and subcommittee information in the Directors Remuneration report that is described as in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing minutes for evidence of the existence of further liabilities and external having been audited.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing legal correspondence for the existence of any further contractual issues.
Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We assessed whether each of the liabilities were appropriately classified between accruals, provisions and contingent liabilities against the recognition OPINION ON OTHER MATTER PRESCRIBED BY and measurement criteria of IFRS.
THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 For those items classified as provisions, we assessed whether appropriate In our opinion: Kathryn Barrow Senior statutory auditor disclosure had been given in the financial statement as required by IFRS.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor, London the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report We assessed whether any items that were recorded in the income for the financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared 2 September 2015 is consistent with the financial statements.
statement warranted separate disclosure as exceptional items because of their size or nature.
Notes: MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT Accounting for the Groups pension liabilities as described on page 64 of We utilised our own actuarial experts to benchmark and consider an 1.
The maintenance and integrity of The Go-Ahead Group plc web site is the responsibility BY EXCEPTION the Audit Committee Report and in note 27 of the financial statements appropriate range for the key assumptions underpinning the calculation of of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of We have nothing to report in respect of the following: these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that the pension liabilities being discount rate, price inflation, salary increases and The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme which is closed to may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, mortality in retirement.
new entrants and future accrual and its train operating companies participate the website.
in our opinion, information in the annual report is: in the Rail Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme.
We also utilised our own actuarial experts to assess the appropriateness of 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial The liabilities recorded in respect of these defined benefit schemes are sensitive the methodology used by managements actuaries to calculate the liabilities statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements: or to long-term assumptions, small changes in these assumptions can result in for the pension schemes.
For apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, We tested the membership data utilised by the actuaries, to source data example the discount rate could be overstated in order to reduce the pension our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing held by the pension scheme administrators liability shown in the balance sheet and increase the net assets of the Group.
our audit: or We reviewed the adequacy of pension disclosures provided in the financial is otherwise misleading.
statements and compliance with the requirements of IAS 19 revised.
within an acceptable range based on comparative market data We confirmed the clerical accuracy of the models We assessed whether disclosures made are in accordance with IFRS www.
