Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT GROUP To the members of Greene King plc We present our audit report on the group financial statements as defined below of Greene King plc, which comprise the group primary statements and related notes set out on pages 67 to 101.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion Greene King plcs group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 3 May 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview Materiality Overall group materiality of 7.8m 2014: 8.8m which represents approximately 5% of pre-tax profit before exceptional items.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of all of the trading components and the corporate centre which together contribute to the groups results for the year.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the group which assisted us in identifying andassessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Areas of focus Asset impairment considerations in relation to the trading estate and associated goodwill.
Risks relating to uncertain tax positions.
Funding headroom and compliance with debt covenants.
Revenue recognition in relation to beer and liquor sales and the associated retrospective discounts.
What has changed Our assessment of the above risks of material misstatement is consistent with the prior year.
Our application of materiality The scope of our work is influenced by materiality.
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
As we develop our audit strategy, we determine materiality at the overall level and at the individual account level referred to as our performance materiality.
MATERIALITY PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY REPORTING THRESHOLD 7.8m 5.9m 390k Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
We determined materiality for the group to be 7.8m 2014: 8.8m, which is approximately 5% 2014: 5% of pre-tax profit before exceptional items.
Our materiality amount provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature and extent of further audit procedures.
Materiality is assessed on both quantitative and qualitative grounds.
With respect to disclosure and presentational matters, amounts in excess of the quantitative thresholds above may not be adjusted if their effect is not considered to be material on a qualitative basis.
Rationale for basis We used pre-tax profit before exceptional items of 168.5m because it is a key performance indicator used in communications with investors, it is more reflective of underlying trading profitability and it is a key metric used by the group in the assessment of the performance of management.
We also note that market and analyst commentary on the group uses pre-tax profit before exceptional items as a key metric.
Therefore, in our view, we consider that pre-tax profit before exceptional items to be the most appropriate performance metric on which tobase our materiality calculation as we considered this to be the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the group.
Thisprovided the basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures, and identifying and assessing the risk ofmaterial misstatement.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level theprobability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our assessments of risk and the groups overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the group should be 75% 2014: 75% of planning materiality, namely 5.9m 2014: 6.6m, due to the low level of historic uncorrected misstatements.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that the total of any detected but unadjusted and undetected audit differences was unlikely to exceed our assessment of materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Full scope audit procedures are completed for all trading divisions and the corporate centre which together contribute to the groups results for the year.
Audit work on individual components is undertaken using a percentage of our total performance materiality.
This percentage is based on the size of the component relevant to the group as a whole and our assessment of risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current period the range of performance materiality allocated tocomponentswas 2.3m to 5.3m.
Annual report 2015 GREENE KING PLC 63 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT GROUP CONTINUED To the members of Greene King plc Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of 390,000 2014: 400,000, aswell as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Inaddition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, theknowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements orinconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the group which, when taken together, enable us to form an opinion on the group financial statements under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We take into account size, risk profile, changes in the business environment and other factors when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The groups operations are based solely in the United Kingdom and therefore all audit procedures are completed by one audit team based inthe head office location working across both the group and subsidiary financial statement audits.
Our assessment of focus areas We identify below the risks of material misstatement which had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
This is not a complete list of all the risks identified in our audit.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the group financial statements as a whole and should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all the procedures we performed in respect of these areas.
Changes from the prior year Our audit approach and assessment of areas of focus changes in response to changes in circumstances affecting the Greene King business and impacting the group financial statements.
Our assessment of the risks of material misstatement below is consistent with the prior year.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Asset impairment considerations in relation to the trading estate and associated goodwill The group had property, plant and equipment We performed a walk-through of the process employed to identify indicators of impairment and balances of 2,235.4m relating to its trading to estimate appropriate impairments of individual sites at individual CGU level or of goodwill estate and 700.9m of goodwill as at the at segment level.
We then tested key elements of those processes.
In particular for both the trading estate and goodwill: For the trading estate, impairments are we compared assumed profit growth rates in cash flow forecasts to the budget, external considered on a site by site basis when an market growth estimates and recent actual profit growth rates, and corroborated impairment indicator has been identified explanations for anomalies: through reduced profit performance.
Goodwill is assessed at an operating segment level we utilised our valuation specialists to determine the reasonableness of the discount i. e. Retail, Pub Partners and Brewing & rateapplied to cash flows through benchmarking to comparator companies and market Brands, being the lowest cash generating expectations: and units CGU at which goodwill is monitored.
we reperformed managements sensitivities applied to the cash flows and considered In assessing impairment, management managements judgment of how a reasonably possible change in assumptions would lead estimates the recoverable value of each site to impairment based upon our knowledge of the groups activities and factors in the sector.
by reference to the higher of its value in use For the trading estate, additionally: based on managements key assumptions relating to discount rate, growth in profits where the fair value less costs of sale FVLCS was required to support the recoverable and cash forecasts and fair value less costs value of a site, we assessed the reasonableness of managements estimate of FVLCS, using to sell based on managements estimates.
our own property valuation specialists, who utilised their knowledge of property valuation The recoverable value is compared to the and comparator transactions: carrying value of each site to determine any where impairment indicators existed but no impairment had been booked, we sought and impairment.
For goodwill management corroborated explanations from management on individual pubs to assess whether an performs its impairment analysis by considering impairment charge was required: and the value in use of the operating segment, based on forecast cash flows for that segment.
we checked a sample of sites to ensure that the sites recoverable value used in the impairment model is the higher of value in use and FVLCS.
These processes have a high degree of judgment and therefore carry a higher level of inherent risk of material error.
64 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risks relating to uncertain tax positions The group has implemented a number of We used our tax audit specialists to assess the reasonableness of managements judgments intra-group arrangements to finance third in relation to the uncertain tax positions, including the following steps: party acquisitions and to effect other we inspected correspondence with HMRC on the issues under dispute or not yet agreed: intra-group transactions.
A number of the arrangements are in dispute with HMRC or in making our own assessment of the technical merits of each arrangement, we applied have yet to be agreed.
The uncertainty over our own technical expertise and considered advice to management from third party resolution of these arrangements has required specialists on the likely outcome of each arrangement: the directors to make judgments on the level we discussed managements options for resolution of each issue in isolation of tax benefit that is likely to be realised andasawhole, and assessed the likely outcome of managements strategies: compared to the level previously recorded.
The directors obtain opinions from third party we employed our understanding as a firm of HMRC dispute resolution to test independent advisers to help them assess managements assumptions on certain cases: and the level of tax liability required against the we tested that the basis for estimation of the tax liability was consistently applied across benefit previously recorded inprior periods.
all of the arrangements, but taking account of new facts and developments.
Estimated liabilities for uncertain tax positions are included within Income tax payable of 50.8m 2014: 46.5m.
Funding headroom and compliance with debt covenants The group utilises two key sources of debt We performed a walk-through of the process employed by the group and related financing: 1 corporate bonds issued through controlsto ensure its compliance with debt covenants and sufficiency of funding: the ring-fenced securitisation vehicle: and We checked that the models used were consistent with the assumptions adopted 2 a bank revolving credit facility of 460m.
bythegroup in the impairment models, tested by the audit team as described above: Both of these debt facilities require the group to comply with certain key covenants.
We checked managements stress testing of the forecasting model to determine whether Management prepare monthly covenant reasonably foreseeable issues could result in a shortage of funds or a breach of covenants and headroom calculations and periodic in the forecast period: investor reports and compliance certificates.
We considered whether the forecast model adequately addressed the funding needs Managements assessment of funding andcovenant compliance of the enlarged group following the acquisition of Spirit, headroom and covenant compliance takingintoaccount the information made available by Spirit in the acquisition process: involves significant forecast estimation, We checked key covenant terms included in the forecast model to copies of the executed principally relating to revenue and bank agreements and re-performed covenant calculations to ensure that managements profitability growth, and the quantum covenant forecasts were correctly performed: and andtiming of tax payments.
We assessed all of the groups work in this area to determine whether the directors hadan appropriate basis for concluding on going concern.
Revenue recognition in relation to beer and liquor sales and the associated retrospective discounts In accordance with International Standards on We performed a walk-through of the processes for the recognition of beer and liquor sales Auditing UK and Ireland there is a presumed inthe Brewing & Brands and Pub Partners divisions and separately for the recognition fraud risk relating to revenue recognition.
ofretrospective discounts by the group as a whole.
We consider that there is a higher level of risk For beer and liquor sales: associated with the appropriate recognition we performed detailed transaction testing by agreeing a sample of individual revenue of sales in the correct accounting period on items to sales invoices, evidence of delivery and subsequent cash receipt: beer and liquor sales in the Brewing & Brands and Pub Partners divisions.
There is also we performed sales cut-off testing immediately before and after period end by testing ahigher level of risk associated with the sales invoices to evidence of delivery to ensure that revenue had been recognised in the accuracy and completeness of retrospective correct accounting period: additionally we have performed similar detailed testing on discounts due to the area being more credit notes to confirm that the credit note has been recognised in the appropriate susceptible to management override.
accounting period: and we conducted specific analytical procedures on revenue and credit notes recognised either side of the year-end to test managements conclusion that the related revenue hadbeen recognised in the correct accounting period.
For retrospective customer discounts: we agreed the nature and terms of certain significant discount arrangements tocontracts or other supporting documentation: we performed specific analytical procedures to compare discounts by customer relative to expectations, taking into account the terms of the discount arrangements and prior period amounts: and corroborated explanations for anomalies: and we tested a sample of recognised rebates to the terms of the rebate, subsequent invoice and settlement to ensure the amounts accrued were reasonable.
Refer to audit committee report page 43 and the accounting policies section of the group financial statements page 72 for discussion ofthe related issues.
Annual report 2015 GREENE KING PLC 65 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT GROUP CONTINUED To the members of Greene King plc What we have audited We have audited the group financial statements of Greene King plc for the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2015 which comprise the group primary statements, being the group income statement, group statement of comprehensive income, group balance sheet, group cash flow statement and group statement of changes in equity: and the related notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 61, the directors are responsible for the preparation ofthe group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the group financial statements areprepared is consistent with the group financial statements: and the information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 38 to 45 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course ofperforming our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 60, in relation to going concern: and the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Greene King plc for the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2015 andontheinformation in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Bob Forsyth Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, statutory auditor Cambridge 30 June 2015 66 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015
