Strategic report Governance Financials 77 Independent auditors report to the members of Grainger plc only OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS The risk: UK Residential and Retirement Solutions ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT properties Investment property is carried at fair for UK Residential properties, assessing value which relies on assumptions the design of the valuations process and which are inherently judgemental and 1 Our opinion on the Group financial sample testing Directors valuations to a small adjustment in one or more statements is unmodified evaluate if they have been prepared in of the assumptions could result in a We have audited the financial statements accordance with the process: material change in the carrying value of of Grainger plc for the year ended investment properties.
attending the regional meetings 30 September 2015 set out on pages 80 to The Directors are assisted in arriving between the independent external 155.
In our opinion: at the vacant possession VP value of valuer and the Group, for those UK the financial statements give a true and UK residential properties by the in house Residential and Retirement Solutions fair view of the state of the Groups and surveying team.
The VP is based on properties, where there is a variance in of the parent companys affairs as at data derived from comparable market the VP value between the external valuer 30 September 2015 and of the Groups transactions.
The determination of the and directors valuation above a set profit for the year then ended: appropriate data requires significant percentage.
By attending these meetings, the Group financial statements have judgement.
A discount is then applied to together with our own valuation been properly prepared in accordance the VP to derive fair value.
specialist, we assessed the degree of with International Financial Reporting For retirement solutions properties challenge, evidence presented and the Standards as adopted by the the risk is that the vacancy and discount conclusions reached: European Union: rate assumptions used in estimating the evaluating the inputs used in the the parent company financial statements discount from VP are inappropriate.
valuations against our knowledge and have been properly prepared in For the Tricomm portfolio there is a risk experience of the industry: including accordance with UK Accounting that the significant assumptions of house challenging the valuations by comparison Standards: and price inflation HPI and discount rates with market comparable transactions and are inappropriate in the discounted cash the financial statements have been changes in industry benchmarks: flow model.
prepared in accordance with the performing sensitivity analyses over the For German residential investment requirements of the Companies Act identified key assumptions: properties the risk relates to the estimation 2006: and, as regards the Group of the rent multiple, based on the location, financial statements, Article 4 of the Retirement Solutions size and condition of the property, which IAS Regulation.
performing a specific assessment of the drives the fair value of the assets.
vacancy assumption against external There is a risk that inaccurate and indices, and critically assessing the 2 Our assessment of risks of material incomplete property information is used by discount rate assumptions used by the misstatement the in house surveying team or the external external independent valuer relating to In arriving at our audit opinion above on valuers in their valuation.
the VP valuation: the financial statements the risks of material Our response: misstatement that had the greatest effect Tricomm We used our own valuation specialist to on our audit were as follows: comparing the key assumptions, included assist us in assessing the year end valuation Valuation of investment properties in the discounted cash flow model reports prepared by the external valuers for investment properties 357.8m relating to HPI to market indices: use in the financial statements.
Refer to Annual Report page 51 Audit Our procedures to address the risks in assessing discount rates against Committee Report Annual Accounts relation to the four categories of property our knowledge and experience of page 90 and 94-97 accounting policies identified above included: the industry: and Annual Accounts pages 115-116 financial disclosures.
78 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financials INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Continued German residential For land and property developments We also considered the adequacy of the comparing the key valuation assumptions, where the intention is to sell on completion, Groups disclosures about the degree of in particular the multiple of net rental NRV is the expected net sales proceeds estimation involved before an adjustment income to our knowledge of the German on sale of the property.
The key risk is to the carrying value is required.
property market, taking into account the development inventories continue to be locality, condition and size of property: held at cost when an impairment should 3 Our application of materiality and an and be recognised, because the total forecast overview of the scope of our audit profits on the individual developments may The materiality for the Group financial performing sensitivity analyses over the be over-estimated.
statements as a whole was set at 4.0m, identified key assumptions.
determined with reference to a benchmark Our response: We compared the investment property of Group profit before tax, normalised to The procedures outlined above in relation value recorded in the financial statements exclude non-recurring items as disclosed to the assessment of the design of the to the independent external valuers reports in Note 3 and by averaging over the last valuations process also formed part of the and assessed the adequacy of the Groups three years to reduce volatility.
This gives response to this risk.
disclosures about the sensitivities and inputs a normalized average profit before tax We compared predicted HPI to trends into the valuations in accordance with of 74.1m with a materiality of 4.0m in market indices and the vacancy rate to relevant accounting standards.
We consider normalised PBT historic averages.
We performed sensitivity Our procedures included testing whether to be one of the principal considerations analyses on these assumptions to assess the the property information provided by the for the directors in assessing the financial level of headroom before an adjustment Group to the independent external valuers performance of the Group.
to the carrying value would be required.
and used by the in house surveying team We report to the Audit Committee For a selection of property sales after the was complete and accurate, for example by any corrected or uncorrected balance sheet date, we compared the value agreeing key inputs, such as rental income, identified misstatements exceeding carried in the balance sheet with the sales occupancy and current tenancy details, to 0.2m, in addition to other identified price achieved.
misstatements that warranted reporting on We focussed on land and property Carrying value of inventories trading qualitative grounds.
developments where the market valuation properties inventories 1,152.2m We identified two components for the from the independent external valuer, Refer to Annual Report page 51 Audit scoping of our audit of the Group financial based on the current state of the site at Committee Report Annual Accounts pages statements, the UK and Germany.
The UK the balance sheet date, suggested that 90-91 and 94-98 accounting policies component was subject to a full-scope impairment might be required to reduce and Annual Accounts pages 122-123 audit performed to component materiality the carrying amount below cost.
The German component was where the valuations indicated a value subject to audit of specific balances and The risk: lower than the cost carried in the balance classes of transactions.
German component Trading properties are held in inventories at sheet and the Groups intention is to materiality was 2.0m.
The UK and the lower of cost and net realisable value develop the site, we inspected the Groups German component audits covered 100% NRV.
The Group strategy is to sell trading plans and forecasts used to support the of Group revenue, 100% of Group profit stock on vacancy, and therefore the NRV NRV assessment and performed sensitivity before tax and 100% of Group total assets.
of UK residential and retirement solutions analyses to assess the headroom before All components are audited by the Group properties is the net proceeds expected on an adjustment to the carrying value is engagement team.
An assessment of the NRV is required.
For sites where the intention is to carried out by reference to key assumptions sell without development we compared the such as comparable market sales, HPI carrying value of inventory to the market and vacancy rates, which may require value, estimated by the independent significant judgement.
external valuer, of the site in its current condition, based on comparable sales.
Strategic report Governance Financials 79 we have not received all the information 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed 6 We have nothing to report in respect of by the Companies Act 2006 is the matters on which we are required to and explanations we require for our audit.
unmodified report by exception Under the Listing Rules we are required In our opinion: Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are to review: the part of the Directors remuneration required to report to you if, based on the the Directors statements, set out on report to be audited has been properly knowledge we acquired during our audit, pages 23 and 29, in relation to going prepared in accordance with the we have identified other information concern and longer-term viability: and Companies Act 2006: and in the annual report that contains a the part of the Corporate governance material inconsistency with either that the information given in the Strategic statement on page 37 relating to the knowledge or the financial statements, a report and the Directors report for the Companys compliance with the eleven material misstatement of fact, or that is financial year for which the financial provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate otherwise misleading.
statements are prepared is consistent Governance Code specified for In particular, we are required to report to with the Group financial statements.
you if: We have nothing to report in respect of the we have identified material 5 We have nothing to report on the above responsibilities.
inconsistencies between the knowledge disclosures of principal risks we acquired during our audit and the Based on the knowledge we acquired Scope and responsibilities Directors statement that they consider during our audit, we have nothing material As explained more fully in the Directors that the annual report and financial to add or draw attention to in relation to: responsibilities statement set out on statements taken as a whole is fair, the Directors viability statement on page page 75, the Directors are responsible for balanced and understandable and 29, concerning the principal risks, their the preparation of the Group financial provides the information necessary management, and, based on that, the statements and for being satisfied for shareholders to assess the Groups Directors assessment and expectations of that they give a true and fair view.
performance, business model and the Groups continuing in operation over A description of the scope of an audit of strategy: or the four years to 2019: or financial statements is provided on the the Audit Committee report does Financial Reporting Councils website at the disclosures in Note 2 of the financial not appropriately address matters statements concerning the use of the www.
communicated by us to the This report is made solely to the companys going concern basis of accounting.
members as a body and is subject to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are important explanations and disclaimers required to report to you if, in our opinion: regarding our responsibilities, published adequate accounting records have not on our website at www.
com been kept by the parent company, or uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are returns adequate for our audit have not incorporated into this report as if set out been received from branches not visited in full and should be read to provide an by us: or understanding of the purpose of this the parent company financial report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Bill Holland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor certain disclosures of Directors Chartered Accountants remuneration specified by law are not 15 Canada Square Canary Wharf made: or London E14 5GL 19 November 2015
