S St tr ra atte e g gic ic R Repor eport t Go Gov five errna nan ncce e F Fiinancial financial S Stat tatem ements ents Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halma plc Opinion on financial statements of Halma plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 28 March 2015 and of the Groups profit for the 52 week period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practices: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and parent company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 31.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, applicable law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practices, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 65 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets At 28 March 2015, the net book value of goodwill and intangible We agreed the cash generating unit CGU groupings to assets was 545m 2014: 448m.
information reviewed by management to make decisions about their business.
We also challenged the forecast cashflows used in Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible the model against historical performance and post period trading assets is a significant risk due to the quantum of the balance data.
recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
There is also a risk relating to the key assumptions and assertions used We compared short-term growth rates against the short-term by management to support their assessment of the carrying historical achieved rates, which were adjusted for specific outliers.
value of goodwill and intangible assets due to the number of We confirmed the agreed rates and challenged management on judgments involved in determining recoverable amounts.
In the appropriateness of any outliers.
assessing the carrying value, management has made a number We recalculated the long-term growth rates cap at the weighted of key assumptions, including short-term and long-term growth average of market specific GDP growth rates, which we agreed to rates, discount rates, the forecast trading performance based on external sources.
managements view of future business prospects and the use of 10 individual cash generating units.
We agreed the Group discount rate was within a range of external party calculations.
We also checked the sector specific The associated disclosure is included in notes 11 and 12.
The premiums against the prior year comparatives and concluded on Audit Committee has included their assessment of this risk on any variances using external input data movements.
Furthermore, page 69 and it is included in the key accounting estimates and we benchmarked the discount rates against published rates for the judgments on pages 106 and 107. external peer group.
We recalculated managements sensitivity analysis and replaced key assumptions with alternative scenario values.
This includes: replacing the discount rate with the highest discount rate identified in our benchmarking of peer group companies, capping the shortterm growth rates at FY15 growth levels and amending forecasts to reflect any FY15 adverse variances of actual versus budget.
We have checked the arithmetical accuracy of the impairment model.
We also assessed whether the Annual Report disclosure includes specific growth and discount rates for those deemed to be significant CGUs.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halma plc Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive continued Income and Expenditure Acquisition accounting There were three acquisitions in the period with a total We obtained the models for the acquisitions in the period and consideration of 97m.
The acquisitions were Rohrback reviewed the fair value adjustments and the calculation of acquired Cosasco Systems Inc. RCS, Advanced Electronics Limited intangibles.
We agreed key opening balance sheet values to Advanced, and Plasticspritzerei AG Plasticspritzerei.
supporting schedules and evidence where applicable.
We challenged the key assumptions in the acquired intangibles There is a risk that acquisitions are not accounted for correctly model including growth rates, useful lives and percentage of in line with IFRS 3 Business combinations.
The risk relates to key customers, plus churn rates.
We discussed these variables the assumptions and assertions used by management to fair with informed individuals at the acquired entity and at head office, value the acquired assets and liabilities.
Judgments include obtaining appropriate supporting evidence.
We also agreed the forecast future trading an output of growth rates, useful some of the key customer order levels to historical supporting life and customer ratios as well as future contingent data to prove validity and confirmed the churn rate calculation consideration payments including the treatment of future completeness via agreeing historical orders placed by a selection amounts based on employment conditions.
We benchmarked the output of the acquisition models, including In determining the fair value of intangible assets acquired the goodwill to intangible asset ratio, to similar prior year management use a valuation model that incorporates their acquisitions challenging any significant variances and considering assumptions in respect of forecast revenues, useful life, forecast the business rationale.
These acquisition accounting For historical acquisitions we compared the forecast contingent judgments are key as the fair value of the acquired intangible consideration positions to post year end trading results, approved assets are included in the balance sheet and the residual budgets and historical levels of settlement.
goodwill balance is not amortised.
We agreed the underlying data in the contingent consideration Details of the acquisitions are disclosed in note 24 to the calculation to signed sale and purchase agreements and the accounts.
The Audit Committee has included their assessment trading performance applied in the calculation to the audited of this risk on page 69 and it is included in the key accounting entitys trial balance for the current period.
estimates and judgments on pages 106 and 107.
We assessed whether managements treatment of contingent consideration payment arrangements for former owners, as either additional purchase consideration or postacquisition remuneration, is appropriate by reviewing the sale and purchase agreements.
Defined benefit pension plan assumptions At 28 March 2015 the net retirement benefit liability recognised We used our internal actuarial experts to assess the assumptions in the Consolidated Balance Sheet was 67m 2014: 37m.
applied in determining the pension obligations, particularly given recent market volatility, and determined whether the key There is a risk relating to judgments made by management assumptions are reasonable.
This included reviewing available yield in valuing the defined benefit pension plans including the curves and inflation data to recalculate a reasonable range for the use of key model input assumptions such as discount rates, key assumptions.
mortality assumptions and inflation levels.
These variables can have a material impact in calculating the quantum of the We challenged management to understand the sensitivity of retirement benefit liability.
changes in assumptions and quantify a range of reasonable rates that could be used in their calculation.
We discussed the output of Management utilise the services of third party actuarial advisers sensitivity analysis with management and their third party actuarial to determine their key assumptions.
We checked the arithmetical accuracy of the pension calculation model.
Additionally we benchmarked key assumptions Details of the defined benefit pension plans are disclosed in note against other listed companies to check for any outliers in the 28 to the accounts.
The Audit Committee has included their data used.
assessment of this risk on page 69 and it is included in the key accounting estimates and judgments on pages 106 and 107.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
96 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 96 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 6.6m 2014: 9.8m, which is 5% 2014: 7% of statutory pre-tax profit, and below 2% 2014: below 3% of equity.
The percentage change was to align more closely with comparable companies.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 132,000 2014: 196,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Materiality 6.6m Component materiality range 42k 976k Threshold for reporting 132k PBT Group materiality An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work for 52 out of 88 trading entities 2014: 52 out of 81.
The increase in total trading entities was a result of the acquisitions in the period, offset by the disposal of Monitor Elevator Products Inc. 47 2014: 46 of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining five 2014: 6 were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
The full scope audit entities represent the principal business units and account for 70% 2014: 71% of the Groups revenue, 73% 2014: 73% of the Groups profit before tax and 78% 2014: 78% of the Groups net assets.
The specified audit procedures entities account for 3% 2014: 3% of the Groups revenue, 0% 2014: 0% of the Groups profit before tax and 0% 2014: 2% of the Groups net assets.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work on the 52 entities was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 42,000 to 976,000 2014: 36,000 to 1,025,000.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or specified audit procedures.
These procedures also included, at a minimum, obtaining the bank reconciliations and statements for all entities above a 132,000 threshold.
For a selection of relevant entities, based on a risk threshold criteria, we also performed revenue cut-off, subsequent cash receipt and inventory provision testing necessary to conclude on these balances.
The Group audit team have established a programme of planned component visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the significant components where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every three years and the most significant of them at least once a year defined as contributing greater than 10% of Group profit or revenue.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
Revenue profit before tax Net assets Full audit scope 70% Full audit scope 73% Full audit scope 78% specified audit procedures 3% specified audit procedures 0% specified audit procedures 0% Review at Group level 27% Review at Group level 27% Review at Group level 22% Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halma plc Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive continued Income and Expenditure Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Alexander Butterworth ACA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, UK 11 June 2015 98 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 98 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
