STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF HAYS PLC GOING CONCERN In our opinion: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within the Directors Report that the Group the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the is a going concern.
We confirm that: Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in is appropriate: and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as the parent Company financial statements have been properly a going concern.
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the ability to continue as a going concern.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT In addition to the risks which we identified in the previous years The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income financial statements, following the acquisition of Veredus Corporation Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, in the current year we have identified an additional risk in relation the Consolidated and parent Company Balance Sheets, the to the acquisition accounting.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial reporting The assessed risks of material misstatement described below framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been engagement team: applied in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We have: DEBTOR AND ACCRUED INCOME RECOVERABILITY The recoverability of trade receivables, accrued income and challenged management regarding the level and ageing of receivables the level of provisions for bad debts are considered to be a and accrued income, along with the consistency and appropriateness of significant risk due to the pervasive nature of these balances to receivables and accrued income provisioning by assessing recoverability the financial statements, and the importance of cash collection with reference to cash received in respect of debtors and billings raised with reference to the working capital management of the against accrued income.
In addition we have considered the Companys business.
At 30 June 2015, the total receivables and accrued previous experience of bad debt exposure, the individual counterparty income balances net of provisions included in note 17 was credit risk, the level of provision held by other recruitment businesses 558.9 million.
and the general economic environment in each jurisdiction: Refer to note 17 to the financial statements for further detail.
critically assessed the recoverability of overdue unprovided debt with reference to the historical levels of bad debt expense and credit profile of the counterparties: tested these balances on a sample basis through agreement to post period end invoicing, post period end cash receipt or agreement to the terms of the contract in place, as appropriate: and considered the consistency of judgments regarding the recoverability of trade receivables and accrued income made year on year to consider whether there is evidence of management bias through discussion with management on their rationale and obtaining evidence to support judgment areas.
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC CONTINUED Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We have: VEREDUS ACQUISITION ACCOUNTING There are three key audit judgments arising from reviewed the acquisition agreement, specifically considering the the acquisition of 80% of the shareholding in Veredus rights relating to voting and the share of profits and the manner in Corporation: which the option to acquire the remaining 20% can be executed: assessment of whether the Group has obtained control of agreed the up-front cash consideration to bank statements: Veredus, considering the specific requirements of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial statements: challenged the reasonableness of the forecast future earnings of Veredus by comparison to historical performance and assumptions assessment of the appropriateness of the fair value of the regarding future outlook to external macroeconomic data: deferred consideration of 8.6 million.
This is judgmental as it requires management to make an estimate of future used Deloitte Valuation experts to assist with challenging and earnings of Veredus: and benchmarking the key assumptions made by management in determining the fair value of the intangibles acquired and the residual assessment of the reasonableness of the fair value of the goodwill arising on the transaction: and assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The fair reviewed the disclosures included in the financial statements with value of the net assets acquired, intangible assets, and reference to the requirements of IFRS 3. goodwill recognised in the financial statements are 10.0million, 3.0million and 34.3 million respectively.
Refer to note 32 to the financial statements for further detail.
We have: REVENUE RECOGNITION The key risks on revenue recognition are: assessed the design and implementation of key controls around all cut-off where revenue is not recognised in line with Group streams of revenue recognised: policy, which is to recognise revenue associated with temporary considered the appropriateness and accuracy of any cut-off placements over the period that temporary workers are adjustments processed by considering the start date of permanent provided, and permanent placements on the start date: and placements and the term of a temporary placement with reference the presentation of temporary placements where Hays acts as to the year end date: a principal and revenue is recognised and presented on a gross evaluated whether revenue has been recognised in accordance with rather than a net basis.
IAS 18 Revenue and with Hays accounting policy by reviewing details The risks noted above in relation to revenue are areas that can of the Group revenue recognition policy, the application of this, and any significant new contracts: and involve management judgment, therefore they are considered to be significant risks.
confirmed that all material temporary worker contractual arrangements where Hays acts as a principal and maintains the Refer to note 1 to the financial statements for further detail on the accounting policies adopted.
majority of the risk and rewards associated with the underlying agreement have been recognised and presented on a gross revenue basis in the financial statements.
GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT We have: The total goodwill balance at 30 June 2015 was 198.4million.
performed a detailed review and challenge of the models used including the macroeconomic assumptions used: Management is required to carry out an annual impairment test.
This process is complex and highly judgmental given the compared key assumptions including discount rates and growth rates indefinite nature of the goodwill.
It is based on assumptions used across the Group used in the model to external data and where about future growth and discount rates, which can be sensitive possible, to information provided by Deloitte Valuations experts: particularly in certain jurisdictions where the growth rates are typically linked to individual country GDP and country assessed the reasonableness of forecast future cash flows by wage inflation.
comparison to historical performance and future outlook: Therefore, a risk exists that goodwill is overstated on the balance performed sensitivity analysis on key assumptions, including discount sheet should any judgments or assumptions be considered rates adopted: and inappropriate.
performed a detailed review and challenge of the disclosures in respect Refer to note 13 to the financial statements for further detail.
of impairments and impairment testing adopted by management.
80|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We have: PENSION ACCOUNTING Pension accounting is complex and contains areas of significant assessed the actuarial assumptions discount rate, inflation rates, judgment, notably the discount and inflation rates used in and mortality assumptions adopted by the Group for the valuation the valuation of the net liability.
Therefore, a risk exists that of its retirement benefit obligations, with specific focus on changes inappropriate rates are used resulting in an inaccurate pension to demographic assumptions in the year: valuation at year end.
utilised internal specialists to consider these assumptions and The net pension liability balance at 30 June 2015 was benchmarked them against a relevant comparator Group: 58.7million.
The net pension liability recognised is lower than the present value of future contributions to fund the reviewed the pension scheme liability.
Whilst the scheme is currently existing deficit.
in a net deficit position, the net pension liability recognised is lower than the present value of future contributions to fund the existing Refer to note 21 to the financial statements for further detail.
In order to assess whether an additional liability would need to be recognised, we reviewed the pension scheme trust documents to assess whether Hays has an unconditional right to any scheme surplus: and reviewed the disclosures made in note 21 and compared these to the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 56.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
OUR APPLICATION OF We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it MATERIALITY probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 7.4 million 2014: 7.0 million, which is approximately 5% 2014: 5.3% of profit before tax, and below 3% 2014: 3% of equity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 150,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 33 2014: 32 locations.
NET FEES % Of these, 19 2014: 18 were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining 14 2014: 14 were subject to an audit of specified account balances specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was 90 based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups 7 3 operations at those locations.
These 19 locations represent the principal business units within the Groups three reportable segments and account for 90% 2014: 90% of the Groups net fees and 92% 2014: 98% of profit before tax.
The three key locations are Australia Asia Pacific, Germany CE&RoW and UK UK & Ireland which account for 74% of net fees and 81% of profit before tax.
Our audit work at the 33 locations were executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 1.2 million to 4.7 million 2014: 1.1 million to 4.4 million.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX % The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so 1 92 that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the material 7 locations where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every two years.
During the 2015 audit, the Senior Statutory Auditor visited the UK, Germany and the USA.
In addition, senior members of the audit team visited Spain, Portugal and France.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we will include the component audit team in our team planning and risk briefing, discuss their risk assessment, participate in the close meeting and review documentation of the findings from their work.
Full scope audit Agreed upon procedures Head o ce review Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC CONTINUED OPINION ON OTHER In our opinion: MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: ARE REQUIRED TO we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or REPORT BY EXCEPTION adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our ADEQUACY OF audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED AND the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
ACCOUNTING RECORDS We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
DIRECTORS Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be REMUNERATION audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
CORPORATE Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
GOVERNANCE We have nothing to report arising from our review.
STATEMENT OUR DUTY TO READ Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: OTHER INFORMATION INTHE ANNUAL REPORT materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for RESPECTIVE the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
RESPONSIBILITIES Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with OFDIRECTORS applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require AND AUDITOR us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, OF THE FINANCIAL whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are STATEMENTS appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
STEPHEN GRIGGS SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR, FCA FOR AND ON BEHALF OF DELOITTE LLP CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND STATUTORY AUDITOR LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM 27 August 2015 82|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
