HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Going concern and the Directors assessment of the Opinion on financial statements of Hikma principal risks that would threaten the solvency or Pharmaceuticals PLC liquidity of the Group In our opinion: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors the financial statements give a true and fair view of the statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis state of the Group's and of the Parent Company's affairs as of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial statements at 31 December 2015 and of the Group's profit for the year and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the then ended: Group contained within the strategic report on page 60. the Group financial statements have been properly prepared We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the directors' confirmation on page 53 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, the Parent Company financial statements have been properly including those that would threaten its business model, future prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European performance, solvency or liquidity: Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the disclosures on pages 54-56 that describe those risks and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the directors' statement in note 2 to the financial statements the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income their confirmation that there are no material uncertainties Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, to the Group's ability to continue to do so over a period of the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Financial at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Position, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow financial statements: Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1-44 to the Consolidated the director's explanation on page 60 as to how they have Financial Statements and 45-67 to the Parent Company Financial assessed the prospects of the Group over the three year period Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been to 31 December 2018 and why they consider that period to be applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing of the Companies Act 2006. attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis by the IASB of accounting and we have not identified any material uncertainties As explained in note 2 to the Group financial statements, in addition that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs Independence as issued by the IASB.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: 130 130 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Going concern and the Directors assessment of the Opinion on financial statements of Hikma Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk principal risks that would threaten the solvency or Pharmaceuticals PLC liquidity of the Group In our opinion: Revenue recognition As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors The Groups revenue recognition policies require directors to We assessed the revenue recognition policies applied by the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis make a number of estimates, with the most significant relating Group, including the valuation and timing of revenue recognition state of the Group's and of the Parent Company's affairs as to provisions for chargebacks, product returns, rebates and with reference to the relevant revenue recognition criteria in IFRSs.
of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial statements at 31 December 2015 and of the Group's profit for the year price adjustments See notes 2 and 3 which vary by product and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Where revenue has been deferred because management then ended: arrangements and buying groups.
Group contained within the strategic report on page 60. have determined that revenue cannot be reliably measured, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Additionally, for certain pharmaceutical products there may be we challenged this judgement on a product by product basis We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards uncertainty over the ultimate net selling price due to actual or by comparing managements estimate to our independently IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: probable price volatility or over the level of returns, particularly developed expectation.
Additionally we challenged the basis the directors' confirmation on page 53 that they have carried after the launch of a new product.
In circumstances where of the decision to revert to normal recognition practice in the out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, the Parent Company financial statements have been properly revenue cannot be reliably measured at the time of shipment, case of one product.
including those that would threaten its business model, future prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European revenue recognition is delayed until a reliable estimate can performance, solvency or liquidity: We challenged the key judgements such as the expected value of Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the be made.
As there is significant management judgement in chargebacks, product returns, price adjustments and the amount Companies Act 2006: and the disclosures on pages 54-56 that describe those risks and determining whether revenue can be reliably measured, this of inventory in the channel with respect to any deferred revenue the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with explain how they are being managed or mitigated: is an area of audit focus.
by performing analytical and substantive procedures.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the directors' statement in note 2 to the financial statements Substantive procedures included examining third party statements the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the and data e. g. external prescription data, sampling chargeback going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income payments processed subsequent to the year end to assess run rates their confirmation that there are no material uncertainties Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, and challenging management estimates of channel inventory by to the Group's ability to continue to do so over a period of the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Financial reference to IMS data.
at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Position, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow financial statements: Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Changes in Equity and the related notes 1-44 to the Consolidated the director's explanation on page 60 as to how they have The Group holds goodwill and intangible assets totalling $604 We assessed each of the impairment reviews by critically reviewing Financial Statements and 45-67 to the Parent Company Financial assessed the prospects of the Group over the three year period million see notes 3 and 14.
These relate to Hikmas acquired the estimated future cash flows by considering the historical Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been to 31 December 2018 and why they consider that period to be manufacturing operations and other business combinations accuracy of budgeting and through our understanding of the applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a and separately acquired product rights, which the directors are future prospects of the business or investment.
We understood the by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue required to assess for impairment.
The significant value of these assumptions underlying the forecast cash flows and corroborated financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period items and the judgemental nature of assumptions included within the validity of these to other audit evidence.
We sensitised the of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing of the Companies Act 2006. the impairment models, in particular the growth rates inherent forecast cash flows based on observed historical accuracy.
We attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued in the forecasts and the discount rate assumptions, make this an worked with internal valuation specialists to challenge the discount We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis area of audit focus.
rates, comparing assumptions to external market data.
Where by the IASB of accounting and we have not identified any material uncertainties significant judgements were made we also carried out sensitivity As explained in note 2 to the Group financial statements, in addition Management completed impairment reviews where indicators that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue analyses to assess their impact.
to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by of impairment existed or where an annual impairment review as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by was required for assets with an indefinite useful life or goodwill.
conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs Taxation Independence as issued by the IASB.
The Groups worldwide operations are highly integrated and We challenged the judgements made by the directors and We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils involve a number of cross border transactions.
As a result there evaluated the appropriateness of the provisions for both Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are is complexity and judgement surrounding the valuation of tax known and uncertain tax positions and their related disclosures.
independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical liabilities, including transfer pricing considerations see notes 2, Working with our own taxation specialists, we obtained the responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm 3, 11 and 17. latest correspondence between the Group and the relevant tax we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services authorities, understood the judgements made by the directors referred to in those standards.
in respect of the various open issues, held meetings with senior management and reviewed any opinions of the Groups external Our assessment of risks of material misstatement tax advisers.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: 130 131 131 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financial Statements Continued Independent Auditors Report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Inventory valuation At 31 December 2015, the Group held inventories of $250 million We challenged the assumptions over inventory provisions by: net of provisions of $47 million see note 19.
The directors make Reviewing the historical ageing of inventory: significant judgements regarding the value of inventory provisions Identifying and assessing a sample of aged and obsolete for obsolescence and short-dated items.
inventory: Analysing the level of short-dated inventory and the associated provisions: Testing the expected volume and price of future sales of inventory by reviewing the price of a sample of inventory sold after the balance sheet date: and Reviewing the historical accuracy of inventory provisioning and the level of inventory write-offs during the year.
In 2014 we also reported on acquisition accounting as a risk in our audit report.
We have not reported on this because the only material business combination announced in 2015 did not complete until early in 2016.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 86.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit Our application of materiality work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Our audit work at these components was executed at levels of financial statements that makes it probable that the economic materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed than Group materiality, ranging from $6m to $9m 2014: $6m or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our to $9m.
audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation We determined materiality for the Group to be $15.4 million process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our 2014: $18 million, which is approximately 5% 2014: 5% of conclusion that there were no significant risks of material profit before tax, and below 1.2% 2014: 1.5% of equity.
misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified the Committee all audit differences in excess of $300,000 2014: account balances.
$360,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also reported planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified the Group audit team visits each of the locations where the Group when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
audit scope was focused at least once every two years and the An overview of the scope of our audit most significant of them including Jordan and the USA at least once a year.
In 2015, the Group Partners visited the USA, Jordan and Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of Portugal.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we the Group and its environment, including any Group-wide controls, will include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope from their work.
primarily on the audit work at fifteen components.
Nine of these components were subject to a full scope audit: while others were subject to an audit of certain specified account balances performed centrally by the Group audit team.
These locations represent the principal business units and account for 88% 2014: 82% of the Groups net assets, 90% 2014: 97% of the Groups revenue and 91% 2014: 88% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also 132 132 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Continued to the audit committee which we consider should have been Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such Companies Act 2006 inconsistencies or misleading statements.
In our opinion: Inventory valuation Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor At 31 December 2015, the Group held inventories of $250 million We challenged the assumptions over inventory provisions by: the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited net of provisions of $47 million see note 19.
The directors make As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Reviewing the historical ageing of inventory: significant judgements regarding the value of inventory provisions the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Act 2006: and Identifying and assessing a sample of aged and obsolete for obsolescence and short-dated items.
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors' inventory: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial Report for the financial year for which the financial statements statements in accordance with applicable law and International Analysing the level of short-dated inventory and the associated are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require provisions: us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Testing the expected volume and price of future sales of Matters on which we are required to report by exception for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on inventory by reviewing the price of a sample of inventory sold Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools after the balance sheet date: and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, in our opinion: Reviewing the historical accuracy of inventory provisioning and understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include the level of inventory write-offs during the year.
our dedicated professional standards review team and independent we have not received all the information and explanations we partner reviews.
require for our audit: or In 2014 we also reported on acquisition accounting as a risk in our audit report.
We have not reported on this because the only material adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in business combination announced in 2015 did not complete until early in 2016.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on received from branches not visited by us: or Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to page 86. the companys members those matters we are required to state to the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest with the accounting records and returns.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
to anyone other than the company and the companys members as risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Directors remuneration have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit Our application of materiality if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have Scope of the audit of the financial statements work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Our audit work at these components was executed at levels of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and financial statements that makes it probable that the economic to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
than Group materiality, ranging from $6m to $9m 2014: $6m assurance that the financial statements are free from material or influenced.
Corporate Governance Statement misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation We determined materiality for the Group to be $15.4 million the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our 2014: $18 million, which is approximately 5% 2014: 5% of compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the conclusion that there were no significant risks of material profit before tax, and below 1.2% 2014: 1.5% of equity.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information the Committee all audit differences in excess of $300,000 2014: account balances.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the $360,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of audited financial statements and to identify any information that is view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also reported annual report is: planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified the Group audit team visits each of the locations where the Group with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the materially inconsistent with the information in the audited when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
audit scope was focused at least once every two years and the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements financial statements: or An overview of the scope of our audit most significant of them including Jordan and the USA at least once or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent a year.
In 2015, the Group Partners visited the USA, Jordan and Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of Paul Franek FCA Portugal.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we the Group and its environment, including any Group-wide controls, performing our audit: or Senior statutory auditor will include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP otherwise misleading.
their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor from their work.
Nine of these In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified London, United Kingdom components were subject to a full scope audit: while others were any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the subject to an audit of certain specified account balances performed audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual 15 March 2016 centrally by the Group audit team.
These locations represent the report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual principal business units and account for 88% 2014: 82% of the report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated Groups net assets, 90% 2014: 97% of the Groups revenue and 91% 2014: 88% of the Groups profit before tax.
