Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Howden Joinery Group Plc Opinion on financial In our opinion: 123 statements of Howden the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent Joinery Group plc companys affairs as at 26 December 2015 and of the groups profit for the 52 weeks then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 28.
This also comprises the Parent Company Balance Sheet and related notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern and the As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the directors assessment of appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial the principal risks that statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the group contained on page 17. would threaten the We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: solvency or liquidity of the group the directors confirmation on page 17 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 19 to 22 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the Strategic Report to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the directors explanation on page 17 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on of material misstatement our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
There have been no changes in the risks of material misstatement identified compared to the prior year.
Independent auditors report to the members of Howden Joinery Group Plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 124 The recoverability of trade debtors and appropriateness We have challenged managements assumptions in calculating of the bad debt provision the bad debt provision.
This includes reviewing the ageing of The Group supplies a large number of small businesses and receivables in comparison to previous years, testing the integrity the year end trade debtors balance consists of a high number of ageing by recalculating the due date for a sample of invoices of relatively small accounts.
Management judgement is and reviewing the level of bad debt write offs in the current year required in determining the completeness of the trade and against the prior year.
We also checked the recoverability of receivables provision and in assessing its adequacy through outstanding debtors through examination of subsequent cash considering the expected recoverability of the year-end trade receipts and tested the operating effectiveness of the relevant receivables.
At the year end the Group held trade receivables control procedures management has in place.
Further information is included in notes 2, 3 and note 17.
The appropriateness of the stock obsolescence provision We have tested that the book value of stock does not exceed Management judgement is required in determining the its net realisable value by comparing the actual sales value to accuracy of the stock obsolescence provision and in making an the book value for a sample of lines.
We have challenged the assessment of its adequacy.
In particular, there is judgement assumptions used to calculate the obsolescence provision and involved in determining the appropriate provision percentage specifically with respect to the discontinued lines.
We have based on the age of discontinued kitchen and non-kitchen stock checked the dates they were discontinued and assessed the lines at both depots and manufacturing sites and the level of appropriateness of the provision percentages applied through forecast sales.
At the year end the Group held stock of 193.9m reviewing the sales of those lines post discontinuation.
Further information is included in other lines we have assessed the forecast sales demand with notes 2, 3 and note 16. comparison to prior periods.
The appropriateness of the actuarial assumptions We have used our pension specialists to assist us in assessing used in determining the defined benefit deficit the appropriateness of the assumptions underlying the valuation The Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme which was of the pension deficit by reviewing the actuarial report and closed to new entrants from April 2013.
Management judgement challenging each of the key assumptions by comparison to is required in determining the key actuarial assumptions that available market data.
We have also benchmarked the key underpin the calculation of the defined benefit deficit 49.2m.
assumptions against a population of other companies as at the In particular, the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality end of December.
We have also assessed the competence and assumptions.
Further information is included in notes 2, 3 and independence of the external actuaries used by management in note 20. determining the actuarial assumptions.
Competence has been assessed by confirming the actuaries have sufficient experience and are Fellows of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 69.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Our application of We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it 125 materiality probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 10 million 2014: 8 million, which is approximately 5% 2014: 5% of pre-tax profit.
Pre-tax profit has been used as it continues to be a key driver of business value and an area of focus for stakeholders.
This basis is consistent with the prior year.
Our audit work at the entities was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality and ranged between 50% and 95% of group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 200,000 2014: 160,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including of our audit group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our audit scope on the UK, French and Belgian trading entities and each of the Head Office companies.
All of these were subject to a full audit.
These locations represent the principal business units and account for 99% 2014: 100% of the groups net assets, groups revenue and of the groups profit before tax for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2015.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
The UK trading entities and Head Office Companies together account for 98% 2014: 98% of Group revenue and were audited by the group team.
This audit approach is consistent with the prior year.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion: prescribed by the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in Companies Act 2006 accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: received and accounting we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or records adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Independent auditors report to the members of Howden Joinery Group Plc continued Our duty to read other Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our 126 information in the opinion, information in the annual report is: Annual Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the responsibilities of preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our directors and auditor responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Edward Hanson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 24 February 2016
