Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of HomeServe plc Independent Auditors Report to the members of HomeServe plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Opinion on financial statements of HomeServe plc In our opinion: Regulatory risk the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent As a home emergency and repair services For each of the Groups four main components we have Companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: provider, the Group operates within a regulated assessed the design and implementation of managements marketplace.
Each component is subject to its controls in place to monitor and respond to regulatory risks the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with own local country regulatory regime, resulting at a local level.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: in varying degrees of regulatory complexity and the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with As part of our assessment we have held discussions oversight.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of with senior individuals in the risk, compliance and legal Remediation activities in relation to the Financial functions of the Group as well as considering the frequency the Companies Act 2006: and Conduct Authority FCA investigation and of reporting of regulatory risk to the Group Audit and Risk the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the fine into the UK businesses past practices are Committee.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS substantially complete.
However, the Group is Regulation.
Where available, we have reviewed any regulatory required to ensure that its sales and marketing, correspondence between the component and local controls and governance and complaints The financial statements comprise the Group income statement, the Group and Company regulator.
handling processes are structured in a manner statement of comprehensive income, the Group and Company balance sheets, the Group cash which is compliant with the local countries In the UK we have spoken directly with the FCAs supervisory flow statement, the Group and Company statements of changes in equity and the related regulatory regimes.
To the extent this is not team to obtain an independent view of the relationship with notes 1 to 54.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation the case, the Group may be exposed to further the FCA, as well as any immediate concerns that the FCA regulatory censure.
is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent may have with the UK business.
Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Further details of the regulatory risk are Act 2006. discussed in the Principal risks and uncertainties section of the Strategic report.
Going concern Carrying value of goodwill and intangible As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 35 that the assets Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: The carrying value of goodwill and intangible We challenged managements assessment of whether we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the assets is 403.1m 2014: 333.6m.
there are any impairment indicators by considering the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and performance of each cash generating unit, as well as any The Groups assessment of the carrying value of notable business developments during the year.
we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the goodwill and intangible assets is a judgemental Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
process which requires estimates concerning We challenged managements key assumptions relating to the future cash flows of each cash generating the estimated future cash flows, growth rates, selling prices, However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a unit and associated discount rates, growth direct costs and the discount rates applied to each cash guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
rates, selling prices and direct costs based generating unit.
Our procedures included reviewing forecast on managements view of future business cash flows with reference to historical trading performance, Our assessment of risks of material misstatement prospects.
assessing the Groups ability to accurately forecast business The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest performance, consideration of future prospects of the effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of There is a risk that the management information business and benchmarking assumptions such as the the engagement team.
used to make these judgements is either growth rate and discount rate to external macro-economic incomplete or inaccurate, resulting in financial and market data.
budgets and plans not appropriately predicting actual future cash flows.
We have assessed the appropriateness of new costs capitalised by the Group during the year by considering Further detail on the key judgements involved whether the costs have met the recognition criteria of IAS 38: is set out in the critical accounting judgements Intangible Assets.
and key sources of estimation uncertainty in note 3 to the financial statements.
102 | HomeServe HomeServe | 103 Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of HomeServe plc Independent Auditors Report to the members of HomeServe plc We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk audit differences in excess of 100,000 2014: 100,000, as well as differences below that Revenue recognition threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the The Group has recognised revenue of 584.2m We tested controls over the revenue recognition process Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall during the year 2014: 568.8m.
presentation of the financial statements.
The recognition of revenue requires significant We performed testing around the cut off and timing An overview of the scope of our audit judgement by management to determine key of revenue recognition for policy income.
This involved Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, assumptions, particularly regarding the timing reviewing the trend of cancellations subsequent to the including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group of recognising revenue and the expected value year end to assess whether revenue has been correctly of policy cancellations.
Based on that assessment, as in the prior year, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at the following components: Further detail on the Groups revenue We assessed the Groups policy for recognising revenue, UK recognition policy is set out within the significant including considering whether the policy is in accordance USA accounting policies in note 2 and the associated with current accounting standards.
key judgements involved are set out in the France, and We also challenged and tested the methodology used for critical accounting judgements and key sources Spain.
calculating expected policy cancellations by comparing of estimation uncertainty in note 3 to the the inputs and assumptions used by reference to the financial statements.
All of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the New Markets segment was subject to specific cancellation rates experienced by the Group.
audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
Last year our report included a risk in relation to the provision for FCA remediation activities, FCA investigation and fine.
As these remediation activities are substantially complete, we have The UK, USA, France and Spain components account for 97.7% 2014: 97.5% of the Groups broadened the definition of this risk to consider any residual issues across the Group as part of revenue and 100% 2014: 100% of the Groups profit before tax from profit-making components the regulatory risk discussed above.
there was a loss for the year in the New Markets segment which is not subject to a full audit.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the four components was considered by the Audit and Risk Committee discussed on page 59 and 60. executed at levels of component materiality applicable to each individual entity which were Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of lower than Group materiality and ranged from 4.1m to 2.7m 2014: 4.1m to 1.4m.
the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject Our application of materiality to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits the USA, France and Spain changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in at least once every two years and the UK at least once a year.
In years when we do not visit a evaluating the results of our work.
significant component we will include the component audit team in discussions about the risk We determined materiality for the Group to be 5.4m 2014: 5.4m, which is based on 7.5% 2014: assessment, participate in their audit close meetings and review documentation of the findings 7.5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
The exceptional items are described in note 6 from their work.
and their exclusion is consistent with the Groups internal and external reporting to facilitate a better understanding of the underlying trading performance.
104 | HomeServe HomeServe | 105 Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of HomeServe plc Independent Auditors Report to the members of HomeServe plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our Matters on which we are required to report by exception audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: standards review team and independent partner reviews.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors and returns.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Directors remuneration Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Corporate Governance Statement reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or Our duty to read other information in the annual report materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the our opinion, information in the annual report is: implications for our report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Matthew Perkins In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies Senior Statutory Auditor between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee Birmingham, UK which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such 19 May 2015 inconsistencies or misleading statements.
