Home Retail Group 66 Annual Report 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Home Retail Group plc Group Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Home Retail Group plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 28 February 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Home Retail Group plcs financial statements comprise: the Consolidated balance sheet as at 28 February 2015: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated statement of cash flows and the analysis of net cash debt for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality: Overall Group materiality is 8.6 million, which is retained at the level applied in 2014, having given consideration to 5% of benchmark profit before tax in the current year as well as an average of 5% of benchmark profit before tax over the previous five years.
Audit scope: We conducted an audit of the complete financial information of the two largest operating segments Argos and Homebase, due to their individual financial significance to the Group, and of the Financial Services segment, due to the increased inherent risk associated with certain activities within that segment.
Additional audit procedures were performed at a Group level, including testing of certain central expenses in the fourth operating segment, Central Activities, and over the group consolidation.
Areas of focus: Commercial income arrangements.
Impairment of store card receivables.
Store-based provisions for onerous leases in Homebase.
Balance sheet review, including review of key accounting judgements and estimates.
Provisions for customer redress in respect of Financial Services products.
Classification and disclosure of exceptional items.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2015 67 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Commercial income Volume-based rebates As described in the Audit Committee Report on page 41 Our approach to auditing volume-based rebates on purchases was underpinned by testing key and in the note to the accounts on page 80, the Group system controls, including those used to determine the amount of items sold under the terms has two main streams of commercial income: volumeof volume-based rebate agreements.
We determined that the testing of these controls provided based rebates and marketing and advertising income.
us with audit evidence that volume-based rebate income had been recorded appropriately and in the correct year.
Commercial income is an area of focus due to the quantum of the income recorded under these arrangements and its Our approach to auditing volume-based rebates on sales was substantive in nature due to the significance in relation to the result for the year, and the manual process for tracking such amounts.
application of management judgement in recording either We tested the rebate purchase arrangements entered into the rebate system or onto the sales amounts receivable or amounts deferred at the balance rebate spreadsheet by testing a sample of data to contracts and agreeing the contractual terms had sheet date.
In the absence of a contract, we agreed the terms of the arrangement to other evidence from the supplier.
We also tested any post year-end reversal of debit notes recorded Volume-based rebates Volume-based rebates are earned both on purchases at the balance sheet date for evidence that amounts were overstated and found no such amounts.
of product from suppliers and also on sales to customers We additionally re-performed the system calculation of rebate income to confirm the accuracy and are driven by the Group achieving certain purchase of the income recorded, and reconciled the total value of volume-based rebate income recorded or sales volume targets set by individual suppliers for in the rebate system or on the rebate spreadsheet to the total value recorded in the general ledger specific products over a pre-determined period.
and found no material reconciling items.
There is, therefore, judgement involved in estimating the Marketing and advertising income volume of purchases or sales, particularly where rebate Marketing and advertising income is tracked on spreadsheets and, therefore, our audit procedures agreements span a financial year-end.
In instances where focused on obtaining evidence over the amount of the marketing funding entered onto these the rebate agreement does not fully coincide with the spreadsheets and whether the income was recognised in the correct period.
year-end, the key judgement that we focused on was the We traced a sample of funding arrangements included on the spreadsheet tracker to evidence from estimate of rebate income to be accrued at the year-end, the supplier that they had agreed to the arrangement.
We additionally tested the remittance of cash in particular the judgement over whether required through the suppliers account.
contractual volumes were expected to be achieved.
We tested whether marketing income had been allocated to the correct year by testing a sample Marketing and advertising funding of debit notes raised after the year-end across all types of funding to ensure that, where debit notes Marketing and advertising funding is recognised in the related to pre-year-end income, that income had been recorded.
income statement over the period of time to which the We reconciled the total value of funding income recorded in the spreadsheet trackers to the total funding relates depending on the nature of the specific value recorded in the general ledger and found no material reconciling items.
This is a complex area given the varied types of funding in place such as funding relating to For both types of commercial income, we tested whether income was recognised in the correct year specific marketing campaigns, funding related to specific by testing a sample of debit notes raised after the year-end to check that where debit notes related Argos catalogues or general marketing support, and to pre year-end income, that income had been recorded.
managements manual methodology of tracking and We also independently confirmed the terms of a sample of individual commercial income recording this income on spreadsheets.
agreements, covering both the duration of the arrangement and rebate value ranges based upon Our focus was therefore on assessing whether there was the volume of purchases or sales directly with a range of suppliers.
In addition, we independently evidence that a funding agreement was in place, whether obtained confirmation of a sample of debit notes raised in the year within the associated the relevant marketing activity had taken place and agreement period.
whether the income recognised was recorded in the correct year, with particular focus on testing the manual processes in place.
Goodwill impairment assessment We obtained and understood managements impairment model and tested it for mathematical accuracy, and found that it followed an acceptable methodology and was consistent with prior years.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 41, the critical accounting estimates and judgements in note 2 We interrogated the integrity of supporting calculations.
Using our valuations knowledge, we to the accounts on page 79, and note 14 for goodwill.
challenged the reasonableness of key assumptions including the discount rate used by comparing this The goodwill balance is supported by an annual to the cost of capital for the Group and a selection of comparable organisations.
We also challenged impairment review.
No impairment charge has been the long-term growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to market information and economic recorded by management in the year.
We found both these assumptions to be within a reasonable range and that they had been consistently applied in comparison to previous years.
We focused on this area because the determination We evaluated managements future cash flow projections, including comparing them to the latest of whether or not an impairment charge was necessary involved significant management judgement about the Board approved Budget and Five Year Plan, and found them to be consistent.
We also evaluated the sales, gross margin and cost-based assumptions with reference to current-year actual results.
future results of the Argos and Homebase segments of the business, including future cash flow projections We obtained and evaluated managements sensitivity analyses to ascertain the impact of reasonably using sales, gross margin and cost based assumptions.
possible changes in assumption and we performed our own independent sensitivity calculations to The cash flow projections were extrapolated using quantify the downside changes to managements models required to result in impairment.
long-term growth rates and were discounted We also assessed the adequacy of the sensitivity disclosures given in the financial statements which using a post-tax discount rate.
we considered to be appropriate.
Home Retail Group 68 Annual Report 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Home Retail Group plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment of store card receivables We evaluated and tested the controls in place around the store card impairment process and determined that the control over the review and approval of the impairment model was effective.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 41, the critical accounting estimates and judgements in note 2 We understood managements basis for determining whether a loan is impaired and considered to the accounts on page 79, and note 20 for receivables it to be an appropriate method for this purpose.
We tested the data that is used in managements on page 101. impairment models with reference to the underlying loan book and re-performed the model calculations to confirm their accuracy.
Impairment is a highly-subjective area due to the level of judgement applied by management in determining As the modelling assumptions and parameters are based on historic data, we assessed whether provisions for the impairment of store card loans, historic experience was representative of current circumstances and of the losses incurred in the which includes assumptions over how long it takes for a portfolio.
This included consideration of improving economic conditions.
We also considered customer with an unidentified loss to default emergence if there was evidence of incurred losses which were not being identified from historic data and period, and the estimation of future cash flows to be found none.
received from customers currently in arrears.
Due to the We performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions such as the emergence period for significant judgement involved and the magnitude of unidentified losses, and the time period over which future cash receipts are expected for customers the provision, this was an area of focus in our audit.
currently in arrears to quantify the range of possible outcomes for the provision.
In particular, we focused on managements judgements In evaluating the model and assumptions we also considered the rationale underpinning additional as to whether a loss has been incurred and an assessment adjustments made by management to the modelled provision and considered the explanations of whether historic experience is appropriate in obtained to be appropriate.
estimating the likelihood of incurred losses in the current portfolio.
Property provisions for onerous leases in We obtained managements onerous lease model, which calculates the onerous lease provision.
We interrogated the integrity of the model and supporting calculations.
We agreed certain inputs Homebase Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 41, the into the model to source documentation, including the cash flow projections and the individual lease term dates.
critical accounting estimates and judgements in note 2 to the accounts on page 79, and note 24 for provisions We evaluated the basis adopted by management for determining whether an onerous lease exists.
This involved obtaining an analysis of stores and assessing the key assumptions used, including the trading income and the nature of costs included in managements provision model by comparing Included within property provisions are onerous lease sales totals and cost assumptions in each year to historical averages for the Homebase stores and provisions which are established for stores that have understanding the basis of management assumptions for like-for-like sales increases.
either closed or where a decision to close has been announced and for those stores where the projected We compared the cash flow forecasts used in the provision model to those used in the goodwill future trading income is insufficient to cover the lower impairment model described above and found them to be consistent.
of exit cost or the cost of the store continuing to trade.
We tested the accuracy of the underlying calculations in the provision model by re-performing the We focused on this area because of the complexity of calculations.
We found them to be accurate and the methodology consistent with previous years.
judgements management need to form about the future We compared the actual costs of store closures incurred having agreed to relevant audit evidence results of the business and the increased level of store against the historic estimates made by management in calculating the prior-year provision and found closure activity during the year.
them to be materially accurate.
Where stores were expected to be exited before the lease term The models are based on managements future cash expiry, due to the leases being assigned to third parties, we obtained the signed agreements.
flow projections using discounted sales, gross margin and cost based assumptions.
Additional accounting judgements are made in relation to the expected cost of closing stores and the timing of recognition of these costs.
Balance sheet review We evaluated managements approach in conducting the balance sheet review and obtained their output.
As described in the Audit Committee Report on page 41 and note 23 on page 102, during the year management We critically evaluated managements categorisation of whether items identified were changes undertook a review of the Groups balance sheet, in accounting estimates or previous errors.
We also assessed the presentation of such items.
including the key accounting estimates and areas We obtained evidence for changes to estimates through reference to both internal data and of judgement.
As a result of this review, certain accounting estimates With respect to the errors that management identified, we corroborated managements records have been changed.
The review also highlighted a small to third-party evidence, where appropriate.
number of historic accounting errors relating principally We assessed the completeness of the review in the context of our knowledge of the Group, to the determination of trade and other payables in the its historical estimates and the results of our audit work.
Argos business, which management concluded were not material in aggregate.
We considered that management had only, appropriately, aggregated items that are similar in nature and read the related disclosures.
We focused on this area as the balance sheet review addressed areas of accounting which are inherently We considered the systems and control implications of the errors identified and performed judgemental and because the review highlighted additional substantive procedures as a consequence.
a small number of accounting errors.
Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2015 69 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provisions for customer redress in respect of We evaluated controls around the PPI redress programme and tested the internal quality review process over the calculation of PPI redress payments and determined it to be effective.
Financial Services products Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 42, the We tested the completeness of the customer account population and the premiums paid to date critical accounting estimates and judgements in note 2 by obtaining and re-performing the data scripts used to extract data from management systems.
to the accounts on page 79, and note 24 for provisions Utilising our expertise in the financial services sector, we understood and challenged the provisioning on page 103. calculation and underlying assumptions used by management.
For those assumptions based on The Groups Financial Services division offers Payment historic information, we challenged whether this was appropriate for future experience.
We also Protection Insurance PPI to customers for which a independently performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions to quantify the range of provision is recognised in respect of estimated future possible outcomes for the provision.
We evaluated disclosures made in the financial statements.
In particular, we focused on challenging Management uses a model to calculate estimated management that the disclosures were sufficiently clear in highlighting the sensitivity of the provision provisions.
to changes in the underlying assumptions.
We found the disclosures made to be appropriate.
This is a key area of focus due to the extent of judgement incorporated into the assessment and inherent uncertainty in assessing factors such as customer response rates to mailing campaigns, uphold rates on future complaints and the operational cost of processing claims.
We assessed the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policy for exceptional items with Exceptional items Refer to note 9 on page 92 for exceptional items.
reference to the applicable accounting standards.
We evaluated whether each of the items disclosed as exceptional met the criteria set out in the The financial statements include certain items which are disclosed as exceptional, comprising Argos accounting policy and with the treatment adopted in previous accounting years, and confirmed that they were.
transformation and other restructuring costs of 31.4m, and customer redress provisions of 4.1m.
We agreed a sample of Argos transformation costs incurred to supplier invoices or other form We focused on this area because items classified as of evidence such as payroll records to confirm the accuracy of the amounts.
exceptional require judgement by the directors as to We agreed a sample of Group restructuring costs to invoices received from providers.
whether the items meet the definition in the Groups We tested Homebase restructuring costs to the calculation of estimated payments and obtained accounting policy.
evidence that determined that the costs should be recognised at the balance sheet date.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as exceptional is important to maintain comparability of the results with previous years.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured along four operating segments being Argos, Homebase, Financial Services and Central Activities.
We conducted an audit of the complete financial information of the two largest operating segments Argos and Homebase due to their individual financial significance to the Group, and of the Financial Services segment due to the increased inherent risk associated with certain activities within that segment.
The group engagement team undertook the audit of the Argos segment and we engaged component auditors within PwC UK to perform the Homebase and Financial Services segment audits.
All audits are conducted at a single location, which enabled the group engagement team to be actively involved in understanding and evaluating the work of the component auditors.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level including testing certain central expenses within the Central Activities segment and with respect to goodwill impairment testing and the Group consolidation gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Home Retail Group 70 Annual Report 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Home Retail Group plc continued Based on our professional judgement, and consistent with last year, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 8.6 million 2014: 8.6 million.
How we determined it We retained materiality at the level applied in 2014 having given consideration to 5% of benchmark profit before tax in the current year as well as an average of 5% of benchmark profit before tax over the previous five years.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that benchmark profit before tax which excludes exceptional and other non-core items is the primary profit measure used by shareholders to assess the Groups performance.
This provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality.
We had regard to an average of benchmark profit before tax over the previous five years, as well as the current-year benchmark profit before tax, because in our view, this is appropriate for a business that has had relatively stable volumes but volatile profits.
As there has been no significant change in the business in the year, we determined it was appropriate to retain materiality at the level applied in the prior year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.5 million 2014: 0.5 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 65, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 65, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report arising from Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole this responsibility.
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 40, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions to report arising from the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to this responsibility.
Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2015 71 Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Home Retail Group plc for the year ended 28 February 2015 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Neil Grimes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 29 April 2015
