OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 81 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Ibstock plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Ibstock plcs financial statements as at 31 December 2015 and for the period then ended comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated balance sheet Company balance sheet Consolidated income statement Statement of changes in equity Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Statement of cash flow Consolidated statement of changes in equity Related notes 1 to 14 to the financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement Related notes 1 to 31 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Revenue recognition and accounting for customer rebates.
Audit scope We performed a full scope audit of the complete financial information of all four trading components and the head office entities.
The full scope audit procedures accounted for 100% of each of Revenue, Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and before exceptional items EBITDA before exceptional items, Profit before tax and Total assets.
Materiality Group materiality of 2.0m which represents 2% of EBITDA before exceptional items.
indd 81 12 04 2016 12:57 82 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Ibstock plc continued Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
What we concluded to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Revenue recognition We identified and assessed key controls over the revenue process i. e. Our audit procedures 358.3m stated net of thatdeliveries are recorded as revenue which are then collected into cash did not identify any rebates for the period and forIbstock Brick, Forticrete and Glen-Gery and concluded the controls to differences regarding accounting for customer beeffective.
We relied on these controls in our audit approach.
We walked revenue recognition or rebates through the controls at Supreme to confirm they were designed and accounting for rebates.
Refer to the Audit Committee operatingeffectively although we undertook a substantive audit as this Report page 53 : Accounting approach was deemed to be more efficient.
Our journals testing did policies Note 1: and Note 3 not identify any manual of the Consolidated Financial We substantively tested revenue throughout the period by selecting a sample adjustments to revenue Statements.
of transactions, including bill and hold transactions at Glen-Gery to ensure or inappropriate theymet the IFRS revenue recognition criteria, and traced them to source adjustments to rebates.
Revenue recognition is a documentation to ensure they were appropriately recorded.
significant audit risk across allentities within the Group.
We inspected the financial impact of transactions around the period end and Specifically there is a risk tested a sample of these to ensure they were recorded in the correct period.
of inappropriate revenue recognition if revenue is We set expectations of revenue recorded for the period by assessing recorded within the wrong marketexpectations e. g. by using data from the UK Construction Products accounting period, if bill and Association, the budgets of the trading entities and other factors such as hold transactions Glen-Gery contracted changes in sales price and customer rebate agreements in the only are recognised period.
We investigated and corroborated any variances from our expectations.
prematurelyor if customerrebates are We selected a sample of customer rebate contracts for significant customers, incorrectlyrecorded.
inspected the terms, confirmed the sales data on which the rebate is based and recalculated the rebate.
To assess the completeness of rebates, we considered aged debtors, post period end credit notes and reviewed journal postings recorded for evidence ofany unrecorded amounts.
We also made enquiries of management as to theexistence of any other rebate arrangements.
We used computer aided audit techniques to review journals for the period to identify for any manual journals resulting in an inappropriate posting to revenue.
We reviewed significant manual journals for movements in revenue and rebates around the acquisition date and period end.
Accounting for pension We evaluated the output of the actuary used by management by giving due The actuarial liabilities 550.5m as at consideration to their competence, experience and independence.
assumptions used in 31 December 2015 the valuation of the Refer to the Audit Committee We involved our pension advisory experts to assist us in evaluating the validity period end liabilities are Report page 53 : Accounting of the input assumptions including in respect of the discount rate, inflation rate considered to be within policies Note 1: and Note 19 and mortality assumptions.
The assumptions have been assessed with respect an acceptable range.
of the Consolidated Financial to appropriateness of methodologies, market data and consistency with Statements.
actuarial practice, scheme profile and market developments.
The valuation ofpension scheme As at the period end, the Ibstock Our analysis produced a heat map of the various assumptions benchmarked liabilities and related Defined Benefit Pension Scheme against market data which we used to evaluate whether the assumptions were disclosures including had a net surplus of 8.4m within an acceptable range.
sensitivities are restricted to 0.3m with assets appropriate.
of 558.9m offset by liabilities of We checked participant data to underlying information sources such as the 550.5m.
The liability component payroll system.
The surplus is sensitive to small movements recognisedis in the input parameter We tested the calculation of the recoverable surplus, as prepared by the calculated in assumptions which could actuary managements expert in accordance with IFRIC 14, by independently accordance materially change the valuation.
modelling the calculation including corroborating the data inputs.
indd 82 12 04 2016 12:57 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 83 What we concluded to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Acquisition accounting In conjunction with our valuation experts we performed an assessment of We concur with the Refer to the Audit Committee thefair value of assets and liabilities identified at acquisition.
We discussed fair values recorded Report page 53 : Accounting theapproach to the determination of fair value of assets and liabilities with including the policies Note 1: and Note 24 management and their experts to understand and corroborate their rationale adjustments of the Consolidated Financial for estimates and judgements used in the calculations.
We performed processed to the Statements.
sensitivity testing on these inputs.
We ensured the methodology used by provisional amounts management was in line with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
recorded in the IPO During the period a significant prospectus.
We are business combination occurred Where management sought to rely on external expert opinions for the fair value satisfied that these with the acquisition of the recorded we assessed the competence, methodology and independence of updated amounts trading entities prior to the the experts and understood how the reports have been used by management appropriately reflect Groups initial public offering in finalising the balances recorded.
The fair values of assets valuation of liabilities and liabilities acquired were We corroborated key inputs into the recording of the fair value of intangible atthe acquisition date.
assessed by management as assets and property, plant and equipment e. g. rate of return factors, growth provisional at the time of the rates, discount rate and provisions and contingencies e. g. likelihood of The disclosures IPOin October 2015. occurrence of claims and timing and magnitude of provisions.
inrelation to the acquisition accounting For the period ended Where assets and liabilities acquired have been recorded at existing book in the consolidated 31 December 2015 these value, we considered managements process to ensure the original carrying financial statements havebeen finalised, resulting value is equal to fair value.
in negative goodwill of 124.2m credited to the income We discussed with management the changes recorded as part of finalising statement on acquisition thefair values and corroborated the assumptions used in determining the 26 February 2015.
Due to the revised fair values.
size and nature of the business combination, we consider We evaluated the disclosure of the business combination and of the acquisition accounting to be exceptional costs to ensure the presentation is in accordance with IFRS and, an area with a higher risk of in respect of exceptional items, whether it followed the guidance provided by misstatement.
The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of group-wide controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The Group operates from four trading entities, three in the UK and one in the US.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, weperformed an audit of the complete financial information full scope of the Ibstock Brick, Forticrete, Supreme all located in the UK and Glen-Gery located in the US trading components.
We also performed full scope procedures on the Figgs head office entities, comprising various holding companies in the Group structure together the Figgs companies because of the acquisition and IPO related transactions recorded in these entities within the period.
As all components were designated full scope in the current period this provides 100% coverage of the Groups Revenue, EBITDA before exceptional items, Profit before tax and Total assets.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the full scope components, audit procedures were performed on Ibstock Brick by the primary team and three by component teams, being Forticrete, Supreme and Glen-Gery.
We determined the appropriate level of primary team involvement in thework of the component team to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion onthe Group as a whole.
A team planning event was held at which senior audit team members of the primary team and component teams each attended to discuss the key risks and audit approach.
As part of the closing audit procedures, the senior statutory auditor visited the component team in the US.
This visit involved discussing the audit approach with the component team including issues arising from their work, reviewing key audit working papers on risk areas, meeting with local management, visiting local manufacturing operations and attending the closing meeting.
The primary team interacted regularly with each of the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
A member of the primary team attended the closing meeting of each of the in scope component audits.
These procedures together with the additional procedures performed at Group level gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on theconsolidated financial statements.
indd 83 12 04 2016 12:57 84 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Ibstock plc continued Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 2.0 million, which is 2% of EBITDA before exceptional items.
EBITDA before exceptional items for the period is 102.3m as per Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
We believe this is the most appropriate measure to demonstrate the underlying operating and profit performance of the Group.
This was the metric used in the marketing material for the IPO process and is the metric management use in their presentations to stakeholders.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and there was no change in the final materiality from our original assessment at planning.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, being 1.0m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage as these are the Groups first listed accounts under IFRS.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on therelative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current period, performance materiality allocated to components was: Ibstock Brick 850,000 Forticrete 300,000 Supreme 450,000 Glen-Gery 450,000 Figgs companies 200,000 Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 100,000, which is set at5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 51, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
indd 84 12 04 2016 12:57 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 85 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in We have no exceptions Ireland reporting the annual report is: to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions 2006 reporting adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns to report.
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules We are required to review: We have no exceptions review the directors statement, set out on page 51, in relation to going concern set out on to report.
requirements page 80, and longer term viability set out on page 35: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with those provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity We have no exceptions ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to to report.
Ireland reporting draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Adrian Roberts Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 10 March 2016 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Ibstock plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
