INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC Report on the group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 September 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2015: The Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: The Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Context The context for our audit was set by Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs major activities in 2015.
The principal change which affected our audit was the completion of a 4,613 million acquisition in the USA, as a result of which we brought in a new component team in Greensboro in the USA and focused on the acquisition accounting for the business combination.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 115 million which represents 4.4% of adjusted Group profit before taxation.
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement we selected 22 reporting entities which represent the principal business units.
We conducted full scope audit work at 21 of these reporting entities which included Materiality significant operations in the UK, Germany, Netherlands, Spain, USA, Morocco, Australia, France and five other locations.
We also conducted specific audit procedures in Russia.
In addition certain central reporting entities and Group functions, including those covering treasury, taxation and retirement benefits, and the Parent Company were subject to a full scope audit.
Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment.
Tax accounting and the level of tax provisions held against risks.
Areas of focus 68 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment We challenged the Directors analysis around the key drivers of the We focused on this area because the determination of whether cash flow forecasts including the ability to achieve sustained price elements of goodwill and intangible assets are impaired involves increases, market size and market share.
We also evaluated the complex and subjective judgements by the Directors about the appropriateness of the key assumptions including discount rates, future results of the relevant parts of the business.
short term and long term growth rates and performed sensitivities across the reporting segments.
At September 2015 the Group had 10,380 million of goodwill and 509 million of intangible assets with indefinite lives and reasonable For the Russian and Italian businesses we considered the evidence headroom in the majority of the Groups groupings of cash supporting the expected ability of the market to absorb future price increases relative to anticipated volume declines.
We also generating units CGUs.
considered the impact of current and expected legislative and We focused on the valuation of the Growth Markets reporting duty changes on the business and considered the accuracy of segment 1,953 million of goodwill and intangible assets with managements current year forecasts.
Growth Markets is made up of a number of For the Other Premium Cigar CGU, we evaluated the operating segments and individual CGUs, including the Drive reasonableness of the Directors forecast by challenging key Growth CGU grouping and the Other Premium Cigar CGU assumptions about growth strategies including supply constraints, grouping.
For both of these goodwill is analysed separately and opportunities in new markets and changes in the relationship managements assessment indicated low headroom 69 million between the USA and Cuba.
We also considered the accuracy and 17 million respectively.
of managements current year forecasts.
For the Drive Growth CGU grouping we focused on the valuation of As a result of our work we determined that the judgement by both the Russian and Italian businesses, which represent the most management that no impairment was required in respect of material parts of this CGU grouping.
In particular we considered the Drive Growth and Other Premium Cigar was reasonable.
We note robustness of short term growth included in the impairment models, however that goodwill and intangibles held by these businesses together with discount rates and long term growth rates.
remain sensitive to changes in key assumptions and, in the case of For the Other Premium Cigar CGU grouping the valuation is Russia, to adverse changes in macro-economic factors.
Given this dependent on continuing steady profit growth.
As such we focused management has disclosed relevant sensitivities see note 11. on the assumptions the Directors made about the growth rates in the context of constraints which could reasonably impact their ability to meet forecast.
Acquisition accounting For the intangible assets, we assessed the methodology adopted by During the year the Group acquired certain USA cigarette and management and their experts for calculating the brand allocation, e-cigarette brands and assets for 4,613 million.
The acquisition is particularly in respect of the: accounted for as a business combination in relation to which there cash flow forecasts used in the valuation process are a number of significant and complex judgements involved in the assumed useful lives of the brands determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
allocation and impact of working capital movements A purchase price allocation exercise has been performed by discount rate applicable to the transaction management, assisted by external experts.
The primary element of the valuation exercise assessed the fair value of intangible assets impact of synergies in respect of the existing USA business in the form of acquired brands 4,053 million and goodwill 381 Further to this we analysed managements future projections and million.
The allocation also considered the fair values of property, assessed the total asset assigned to each brand and goodwill.
plant and equipment, inventory, post retirement obligations and scheme assets, other liabilities and tax.
We tested the remaining acquired items, for example, by attending inventory counts, and examining third party valuations in respect of fixed assets.
In respect of post retirement obligations we tested the demographic data used by the reporting actuaries and assessed the assumptions applied.
For the pension scheme assets we confirmed existence with custodians and tested the valuation by reference to external price data or, where necessary, used our specialists to independently re-perform the valuation of the asset.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 69 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition We tested the timing of revenue recognition, and whether the Group Revenue recognition is, under normal Group terms and conditions, appropriately recorded revenue taking into account contractual terms and obligations with distributors and other customers.
not complex with accounts receivable converted to cash in a timely For certain key distributors we obtained confirmation of the volume manner.
Returns have historically been immaterial and our testing of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC products held in their year-end did not identify any evidence of significant levels of returns.
We compared this to prior period levels and trends in We also focused on the timing of revenue recognition because of sales volumes over the year.
We noted no instances of inappropriate the risk associated with the levels of inventory sold into, and held revenue recognition arising in our testing.
in, distribution channels and the contractual terms those goods We evaluated contractual terms around the year end, including were sold under.
consideration of any complex or judgemental elements included in contractual arrangements, and tested accounts receivable balances through a combination of third party confirmations and subsequent remittances, with no material exceptions noted from our testing.
We evaluated evidence of the level of returns received after the year end and noted no material issues arising.
We also used a combination of manual and computer assisted audit techniques in order to extract and test journal entries posted to revenue and other general ledger accounts, which did not identify unexplained unusual or irregular items.
Accounting for restructuring provisions The cost optimisation programme operates predominantly through The Group has partially completed a significant multi-year cost a series of distinct projects incorporating centralised governance optimisation programme including factory closures, organisational and project management supporting local execution.
This process rationalisation and the establishment of shared service centres.
gives rise to a series of specific restructuring charges being booked The Group is also integrating the recent US acquisition.
Management either at head office level or in individual component businesses.
has indicated they expect these programmes will require several We conducted audit testing through our Group team on centrally years to complete.
In 2015 the charge in the Consolidated Income held charges and through local testing of charges at component Statement relating to these programmes was 328 million and there businesses.
Because the total restructuring cost also included some is a total restructuring provision held on the Consolidated Balance costs incurred at business units not included in our full scope audits Sheet of 278 million.
The restructuring charge is separately identified the Group team tested these on a sample basis.
on the face of the income statement and excluded from the nonUsing this approach we tested the valuation, accuracy and GAAP earnings measure Adjusted Operating Profit.
The recognition completeness of the individual restructuring costs.
These primarily of restructuring costs requires judgement to estimate the value and consisted of redundancies and related costs, consulting and timing of net economic outflows and the extent to which the Group professional fees and asset impairments.
We found no material is externally committed.
The presentation in the financial statements exceptions in our testing.
also requires consideration of whether the amounts included in the charge are fair and whether their separate presentation is helpful in The principal areas of judgement underlying this work related to: understanding financial performance.
the estimation of uncertain liabilities and impairment losses, the extent to which costs incurred on projects were sufficiently distinct and incremental to warrant inclusion in the restructuring charge and, projects which did not fit readily into the major elements of the programme but were considered by management to be appropriate for inclusion within the overall restructuring charge.
We challenged management over the basis for their judgements in these areas and determined that the amounts included in the charge were reasonable.
We also considered the merits of separate disclosure of the restructuring charge and discussed this with management and the Audit Committee.
We concurred with their conclusion that the extensive scale and cost of the programme, its duration over several years and the level of centralised Group wide control and Board focus, indicated that separate disclosure was acceptable.
70 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus In the calculation of deferred taxes, we assessed the adequacy Tax accounting and the level of tax provisions of tax loss recognition and the level of provision established in held against risks relation to a number of uncertain tax positions primarily in Europe.
There are a number of significant judgements involved in the We determined that the position adopted in the financial statements determination of tax balances, specifically in relation to the recognition was reasonable based on our consideration of managements of tax losses and the assessment of deferred taxation liabilities in assessment of the recoverability of tax losses and the basis for relation to the distribution of reserves held in overseas subsidiaries.
their provision for uncertain tax outcomes.
The Group also has a number of uncertain tax positions in relation to which management apply judgement in setting provisions.
Given the number of judgements involved and the complexities of dealing with tax rules and regulations in numerous jurisdictions, this was an area of focus for us.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured along two business lines being Tobacco and Logistics.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 272 legal entities represented by 236 reporting entities, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
The Groups accounting process is structured around a local or regional finance function for each of the territories in which the Group operates.
These functions maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the head office finance team in Bristol through an integrated consolidation system.
In our view, due to their significance and or risk characteristics, 21 of the 236 reporting entities, including the Logistics sub-group, required an audit of their complete financial information and we used component auditors from other PwC network firms, and other firms operating under our instruction, who are familiar with the local laws and regulations in each of these territories to perform this audit work.
We also conducted specific audit procedures in Russia based on our assessment of the risk of misstatement and the scale of operations at this business unit.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those functions to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group engagement team visits the component teams on a rotational basis.
In the current year the Group team visited the USA the legacy business and the new acquisition, Morocco, the Middle East, Turkey and the Netherlands, as well as in-scope UK reporting locations.
Video conferences were held at least once with the component auditors and management of every in-scope reporting entity and those undertaking specific procedures to discuss the results of the work performed.
In addition the Group engagement team reviewed working papers of the auditors of the more significant components.
We also met the other auditors used on the Logistics sub-group and reviewed their working papers during the year.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
These included derivative financial instruments, net investment hedge accounting, treasury, taxation and retirement benefits.
The Parent Company was also subject to a full scope audit.
Taken together, the reporting entities and Group functions where we performed audit work accounted for approximately 83% of Group revenues and in excess of 90% of both Group profit before tax and Group adjusted profit before tax.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 115 million 2014: 110 million.
How we determined it 4.4% of adjusted Group profit before taxation.
Rationale for We believe that adjusted profit before tax is the primary measure used by shareholders and other users benchmark applied in assessing the performance of the Group, and that by excluding items including finance costs and restructuring costs it provides a clearer view on the performance of the underlying business.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that was less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 10 million and 30 million for the trading entities and 80 million for the financing and treasury entity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 10 million 2014: 10 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 71 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC continued Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 20, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are also required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 31, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to report.
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 37 40, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated to report.
by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment We have nothing material to of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, add or to draw attention to.
future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to managed or mitigated.
add or to draw attention to.
the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of We have nothing material to the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, add or to draw attention to.
and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to longer-term viability of the Group, set out on page 30.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
72 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 48, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2015 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
John Maitland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Bristol 3 November 2015 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 73
