Independent auditors report to the members of Imagination Technologies Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Imagination Technologies Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2015 set out on pages 102 to 149.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 April 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Percentage of completion revenue recognition for license contracts 39,035,000 Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Statement, page 108 Accounting Policy and page 114 financial disclosure The risk: The percentage of completion method based on costs to complete is used to recognize revenue for license contracts modified to meet specific customer requirements.
This method of recognizing revenue involves a number of judgements, the main one being an assessment of the extent of progress towards completion of the contract.
The complexity of the estimation process and the costs to complete assumptions such as budgeted hours to complete applied in the Groups revenue recognition policies require significant judgement and could have a material impact on the revenue reported in the financial statements.
Our response: Our audit procedures included: testing the groups controls over the approval of license contracts and monitoring progress of license completion and development.
We assessed the application of accounting policies to a selection of contracts to ensure these were appropriate and have been applied consistently across the Group.
We obtained a selection of license contracts based on the magnitude of the individual contract and or revenue recognized in the year.
Through discussions with the chief operating officer, we challenged the cost to complete assumptions in particular, the status of contracted licenses, assumptions used in the forecasts such as budgeted hours to complete, development work in the period, determining the financial and technology status of contracts selected and ensuring that this corresponded with the percentage of completion calculations.
We also considered the historical accuracy of the Groups percentage of completion estimates and verified completion of contracts through evidencing delivery of completed contracts.
We have obtained evidence of milestone achievements.
We considered whether these support the estimates made.
We also assessed the Groups disclosures about the significant judgements and estimates made in respect of the revenue generated from license contracts.
Valuation of trade investments 19,947,000 Refer to page 70 Audit Committee report, page 111 accounting policy and page 114 financial disclosures The risk: Trade investments are carried at fair value.
Where investments are not publicly traded this involves valuation techniques using unobservable inputs, which can have a significant effect on the assets valuation.
The material investments within this category are Atomos and Ineda.
The key input for the majority of these is the price paid by investors in recent funding rounds for a share of the company.
Financial report 99 | Our response: In this area our audit procedures included obtaining the information upon which the valuations were based and challenging the suitability of this information as the basis for valuation, for example, obtaining the final documentation available in regards to the funding rounds, the number and type of other investors to ascertain whether this is an indicator of a market price.
We also considered alternate valuations through the use of other information available such as forecast financial performance to obtain an estimation of the value of the company based on a discounted cash flow model.
We also compared the forecasts to historical financial performance of the company to assess the reliability of these forecasts.
We also performed a further comparison of the balance sheet of the companies to obtain an estimation of the value of the company in terms of its net assets.
We compared these alternate valuations to the carrying value of the investments to determine whether there were any indicators of impairment.
We also assessed the groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the valuations to changes in key assumptions.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 1,200,000.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of Group revenue, as it provides a more stable measure year on year than group loss before tax.
Materiality represents 0.7% of Group revenue.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 60,000.
We also agreed to report any audit misstatement below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Full scope audits for group reporting purposes were performed at the UK and US reporting components.
These group procedures covered 99% of total Group revenue: 82% of the total profits and losses that made up Group loss before tax and 97% of total Group assets.
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes were performed by the group team to a materiality level of at 1,200,000 for the UK audit and 600,000 for the US audit.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Committee report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on page 71 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or 100 Financial report | The Significant issues that the Committee considered in relation to the financial statements section of the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Committee report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 51, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 64 relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 59, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Tudor Aw Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 29 June 2015 Financial report 101 |
