Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Inchcape plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report & Accounts 2015 the Annual Report, comprise: Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015: Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: 15.6 million which represents 5% of profit before taxation and Materiality exceptional items.
We conducted our work in 16 countries covering 22 reporting units.
Audit scope The reporting units where we conducted our audit work accounted for 89% of the Groups revenues and 90% of the Groups profit before taxation.
We instructed and maintained regular contact with the component audit teams and evaluated the results of their work performed.
Areas of focus Manufacturers bonuses and rebates.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
140 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 140 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We evaluated managements future cash flow forecasts and Goodwill impairment assessment the process by which they were drawn up, including testing Refer to page 57 Audit Committee Report, page 87 the underlying calculations and comparing them with the accounting policies and page 115 note 11. latest Board approved budgets.
We challenged: Inchcape plc has 345.3 million of goodwill across five Cash projected vehicle volume and margin forecasts Generating Units or groups of Cash Generating Units together over the next five years by comparing them with CGUs detailed in note 11 to the financial statements.
The external industry forecasts where available, and risk is that this balance is overstated.
historical and current results: For the CGUs which contain goodwill, the determination of the long-term growth rate used to extrapolate the recoverable amount, being the higher of value in use and fair cash flows beyond year five the period covered value less costs to dispose of the CGU, requires judgements by Board approved forecasts into perpetuity, by on the part of management in valuing the relevant CGUs.
comparing them with historical results and wider Recoverable amounts are based on managements view industry forecasts: and of future trading performance and profitability and the most appropriate discount and long-term growth rates.
As the discount rate, by independently calculating required by accounting standards, management tests all the cost of capital for the Group.
CGUs containing goodwill for impairment at least on an We evaluated the historical accuracy of budgets and annual basis.
forecasts, for example, comparing the budgets used in the As described further in note 11, management has recorded prior year value-in-use model against the actual performance an impairment charge of 49.5 million against the goodwill of the business in the current year.
These procedures enabled in its Russian business, as a result of the sustained weaker us to assess the accuracy of the forecasting process.
trading conditions and economic outlook in the market.
For the Russian CGU, where the assets are now fully impaired, This impairment charge represented the remaining we calculated the extent to which managements Russian goodwill.
assumptions would have to change for the impairment We focused our testing on the estimated value in use charge of 49.5 million to be materially misstated.
of the Russian CGU to ensure that the impairment charge We challenged projected vehicle volume and margin is appropriate.
forecasts over the next five years by comparing them with external industry forecasts.
Recognising the uncertainty of the Russian market in particular, we satisfied ourselves as to the reasonableness of the assumptions used and judgements made by management and considered the impairment of 49.5 million to be appropriate.
For all other CGUs, where no impairment has been recognised in 2015, we calculated the degree to which these assumptions would need to move before an impairment charge would have to be recognised and found that managements judgement that no impairment was required was supported by reasonable assumptions.
We also agreed the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 11 of the financial statements, including the sensitivities provided with respect to Lithuania.
Manufacturers bonuses and rebates Refer to page 57 Audit Committee Report and page 87 We understood and evaluated the controls and processes accounting policies.
with respect to manufacturers bonuses and rebates.
In certain markets, principally the UK, the Group receives Confirmations were sent to a number of OEMs requesting rebates which are based in part on sales targets set by the confirmation of the total amount of manufacturers bonuses Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs.
The Group is also earned in the year together with amounts earned but not yet entitled to further OEM bonuses and rebates dependent on paid to the Group at the year end.
achieving other targets including non-financial metrics.
We were able to reconcile those confirmations received to the The manufacturers bonuses and rebates are usually amounts recorded in the underlying books with no significant determined by the OEMs and have varying terms, the majority differences noted.
of which are governed by annual agreements, whilst others Where confirmations were not received from certain are based on shorter-term arrangements entered into during manufacturers we substantively tested a sample of bonuses the year.
and rebates by tracing to credit notes received from the We focused on this area as the amounts are material and manufacturer and cash received.
There were no material because not all bonuses and rebates are directly linked to issues arising from our testing.
quantitative measures, which means that the recognition of elements of these amounts requires management judgement and estimation in determining whether they have been earned as at the balance sheet date.
141 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 inchcape.
com 141 Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Carrying value of inventory Refer to page 87 accounting policies and page 122 We considered the Groups past trading performance, note 17. including testing the levels of losses incurred on vehicle sales historically and subsequent to the year-end, to evaluate the As at 31 December 2015, inventory of 1.2 billion is held across level of provisioning and to assess the reasonableness and multiple locations.
Inventory should be recorded at the lower accuracy of managements provisioning methodology.
of cost and net realisable value, being selling price less estimated selling costs.
We established that the inventory provisions were reasonable by recalculating the inventory provisions in each country, As gross margins on sales of vehicle inventory can be low and using the provisioning policy, and comparing the results inventory is sometimes sold at a loss, provisions are recorded with the actual provision level.
against inventory to write it down to managements best estimate of its recoverable amount.
Management has We also verified the completeness and accuracy of any established a formal provisioning policy based on historical additional provisions made by management outside of its performance and their future trading forecasts.
standard policy where specific events or circumstances warranted additional provisioning.
Our testing confirmed that the provisions were reasonable.
Tax exposures and provisions Refer to page 87 accounting policies and page 112 note 8 We assessed the Groups process for identifying uncertain tax positions and the related accounting policy of provisioning for The Group operates across a large number of tax jurisdictions tax exposures and determined that it was appropriate.
and is subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters during the normal course of We used our tax specialists to gain an understanding of the business including transfer pricing, indirect taxes and current status of tax investigations and monitored changes transaction related tax matters.
As at 31 December 2015, in ongoing disputes by reading recent rulings and the Group had tax provisions for uncertain tax positions.
correspondence with local tax authorities, as well as external advice received by the Group where relevant, to establish that Tax provisioning requires subjective judgements to be made the tax provisions were appropriate.
We also considered the by management about the expected ultimate settlement, if status of recent and current tax audits and enquiries, the any, of a potential exposure.
outturn of previous claims and the wider tax environment in each territory.
We confirmed the appropriateness of the related disclosures about the tax provisions and contingencies in note 8.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group structure is organised into six geographic operating segments Australasia, Europe, North Asia, South Asia, United Kingdom and Emerging Markets.
The operating businesses are further categorised into two market channels distribution and retail.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 56 reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses within the six geographic segments and two market channels and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms and other firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
We conducted our audit work in 16 countries covering 22 reporting units.
The reporting units where we conducted our audit work accounted for 89% of the Groups revenues and 90% of the Groups profit before tax.
We instructed and maintained regular contact with the component audit teams we used and evaluated the outcome of their work: 7 components were visited by partners on the Group team.
In response to the matter noted on page 59 of the report of the Audit Committee, we visited the opeartions in Chile and undertook certain limited specified procedures over the local balance sheet.
This together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, including audit procedures over consolidation adjustments, treasury, post retirement benefits, goodwill and litigation provisions gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
142 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 142 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 15.6 million 2014: 15.0 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation and exceptional items.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before taxation and exceptional items is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group, and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 800,000 2014: 700,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 79, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 79, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a to report.
whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 57 to 59, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters to report.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 56 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of We have nothing material the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, to add or to draw including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material managed or mitigated.
to add or to draw attention to.
the Directors explanation on page 43 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of We have nothing material the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have to add or to draw done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether attention to.
they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
com 143 Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities set out on page 79, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of Inchcape plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 and on the information in the  Report that is described as having been audited.
Neil Grimes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 14 March 2016 144 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 144 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015
