FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INFORMA PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relationto: OF INFORMA PLC the Directors confirmation on pages 21 and 22 that they have IN OUR OPINION: carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state the Group, including those that would threaten its business ofthe Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: 31December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year the disclosures on pages 22 to 25 that describe those risks thenended: and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared the Directors statement in Note 2 to the financial statements inaccordance with International Financial Reporting Standards about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and the Parent Company financial statements have been properly theirconfirmation that there are no material uncertainties to prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally theGroups ability to continue to do so over a period of at Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The leasttwelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and financialstatements: Republic of Ireland: and the Directors explanation on page 21 as to how they have the financial statements have been prepared in accordance assessed the prospects of the Group over the three-year with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, period to 31 December 2018 and why they consider that asregards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the period to beappropriate, and their statement as to whether IASRegulation.
they have areasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income over the period of their assessment, including any related Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, or assumptions.
theConsolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1-36 We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern tothe Consolidated Financial Statements and 1-11 to the Parent basis of accounting and we have not identified any material Company Financial Statements.
The financial reporting uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by allfuture events or conditions can be predicted, this statement the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has isnot a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial goingconcern.
statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting INDEPENDENCE Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical of Ireland.
responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT services referred to in those standards.
WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL OF THE GROUP MISSTATEMENT As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors The assessed risks of material misstatement described below statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern arethose that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the basis of accounting contained within Note 2 to the financial allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term theengagement team.
viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report on page21.
In describing how the scope of our audit responded to each risk we have focused on those procedures that focus specifically on the risk identified.
As part of our audit, in addition to substantive audit procedures, we also test the design and implementation ofthe internal controls over the financial reporting of each risk.
96 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS REVENUE RECOGNITION CARRYING VALUE OF GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS RISK The specific nature of the risk of material misstatement in revenue RISK recognition varies across the Groups four Operating Divisions.
The Group has expanded through acquisition and continues The Groups revenue recognition accounting policies are todo so with the largest acquisitions in the year being in disclosed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements with theAcademic Publishing and Global Exhibitions Divisions.
an analysis by revenue stream and by segment in Notes 4 and 5 At31December 2015, total goodwill and intangible assets respectively.
In respect of the Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Accounting standards require that management performs an Networking Divisions customers are often billed in advance and annual impairment test, to compare the recoverable amount the key risk in revenue recognition is that revenue from events normally based on value in use an accounting term for the and conferences is recognised in the wrong period, particularly estimated net present value to the current owner to the Balance for events held close to year end.
Sheet carrying value of each cash generating unit.
In respect of both Academic Publishing and Business The assumptions used in managements review include Intelligence we identified the risk that the deferral and release of preparing forecasts for five years, using the budget for year one, subscription revenues did not appropriately match the underlying the strategic plan for years two and three, forecast growth rates terms of customer contracts.
for years four and five and then applying a terminal value, using growth factors and discount rates in respect of each cash We also identified the cut-off risk within Academic Publishing in generating unit.
The selection of the growth rate and the discount relation to the sales of books in the period around the year end rate assumptions applied is fundamental to this audit risk.
This is described in Notes 2 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial In addition, auditing standards require special focus on revenue Statements and the impairment of assets is identified as a critical recognition as a presumed area of potentially fraudulent accounting judgement in Note 3. management manipulation.
In 2015, based on this methodology, an impairment of 13.9m AUDIT RESPONSE has been recorded 2014: 204.5m see Note 7 to the We reconfirmed our understanding of each of the Divisions Consolidated Financial Statements.
business models to ensure we understood the contracting process with the Groups customers.
AUDIT RESPONSE We audited the assumptions used in managements impairment We then reconfirmed our understanding of the design and testing of goodwill and other intangible assets.
Our procedures implementation of controls and performed sample transaction included: walkthroughs to confirm our understanding of the revenue recording process from order processing to the raising of invoices considering the process by which management had prepared and receipt of cash in the Groups Shared Service Centres.
This its forecasts: enabled us to design and perform procedures to respond to each assessing recent forecasting accuracy against actual of the specific risks of material misstatement weidentified.
performance: determining whether the 2016 projections for each cash The substantive audit procedures we performed across the generating unit were consistent with the budget for 2016 Group included: asadopted by management and approved by the Board ofDirectors: obtaining evidence of invoices, payments, exhibitor contracts determining whether the cash flow projections for 2017 and and evidence of event occurrence to determine whether 2018 as included in managements three-year plan, and for revenue was recognised at the appropriate time: 2019 and 2020 were in line with our understanding of trends performing a trend analysis of revenue over the course of the inthe business and how they compared to analyst forecasts: year, plotting revenue against the calendar of events for the involving our internal valuation specialists to assess the entities tested and verifying that these events had occurred accuracy of the model used in the impairment test and the tothird party sources: appropriateness of the key components of the discount rate for a sample of transactions close to the year end, examining calculation noting that management employed its own third supporting documentation to determine that revenue recognition criteria had been met and the revenue had been party specialist to assist in deriving the discount rates applied: determining whether the growth rates selected by appropriately recognised in the period or deferred at the period end: and management in computing the terminal value were in line with accounting standards which require consideration of long-term for a sample of subscription transactions, obtaining and reviewing the relevant order confirmations and contracts to economic growth rates for relevant territories checking that the impairment loss recorded was mechanically accurate based validate that revenue was properly allocated across the term ofthe contract in the correct accounting period.
on the assumptions used: 97 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INFORMA PLC CONTINUED considering the reasonableness of sensitivities applied by In 2014 we also reported the recovery of long-term receivables management: and asa risk in our audit report.
We have not reported on this again performing further sensitivity analysis on the impairment model.
in2015 due the fact that the consideration of this risk has taken significantly less audit effort than the risks identified above ACCOUNTING FOR BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND andthe magnitude of the items is also significantly less than ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS those above.
The description of risks above should be read RISK inconjunction with the significant issues considered by the The Groups strategy includes growth by acquisition and during AuditCommittee discussed on pages 77 and 78.
2015 the Group completed seven business combinations and These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of recorded a total net cash outflow for these of 62.5m.
Themost thefinancial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion significant business combinations in the year were Ashgate, thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on Maney and Boston Biotech.
The Group also finalised the thesematters.
provisional accounting for the Hanley Wood Exhibitions acquisition that completed in November 2014.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the The accounting for each of these involves judgement and is financial statements that makes it probable that the economic based on assumptions about the fair value of assets and liabilities decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be acquired, and the consideration paid.
As described in the critical changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the accounting judgement in respect of the identification or intangible scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
assets acquired in business combinations in Note 3, management commissions independent valuation experts to assist with the We determined materiality for the Group to be 16.5m which identification and valuation of separate intangible assets for wedetermined as not greater than 5% of statutory pre-tax acquisitions involving consideration in excess of 50m.
profitadjusted for the impairment charges of 13.9m and amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business Information in respect of the acquisitions made in the year is combinations of 99.5m.
In 2014 we determined materiality presented in Note 17.
In Note 3 the identification of intangible forthe Group to be 10.0m which was not greater than 5% assets in business combinations is identified as a critical ofstatutory pre-tax profit adjusted for impairment charges of judgement with the valuation and asset lives of separately 219.0m and restructuring and reorganisation costs of 16.8m.
identifiable intangible assets noted as a key source of .
We agreed this change of approach with the Audit Committee asthe Group is acquisitive and this approach derives a more HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED appropriate and stable measure in the context of the Groups For a sample of transactions, including each material business adjusted profits, the measure focused on by analysts and other combination and asset acquisition, we analysed the sale and users of the financial statements.
2015 materiality represents purchase agreements, and challenged the acquisition accounting 7.5% of statutory pre-tax profit 2014: principally because of applied by management.
This included: impairment charges materiality represented 32% of statutory testing the validity and completeness of consideration to pre-tax loss and 1% 2014: 1% of equity.
We confirmed to the theunderlying agreements and consideration paid: Audit Committee that our change in approach would not affect evaluating managements assumptions and methodology the selection of locations in our audit scoping.
supporting the fair values of intangibles and net assets We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report acquired and the useful lives applied to the intangible totheCommittee all audit differences in excess of 300,000 assetsacquired: and 2014:200,000, as well as differences below that threshold assessing the terms of the acquisition to assess whether that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
components of compensation and remuneration had been Wealso report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters correctly identified and that acquisition costs had been thatwe identified when assessing the overall presentation of expensed as required by accounting standards.
In respect of the Ashgate, Maney and Boston Biotech acquisitions in 2015 and the finalisation of the accounting for theHanley Wood Exhibitions acquisition in 2014 we involved ourinternal valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness ofthe nature and valuation of the intangible assets identified.
Thisassessment included testing the assumptions used including discount rates, useful economic lives, growth rates andthe expected rate of return from customer relationships.
98 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we performed full scope and directed scope audit procedures across the principal Shared Service Centres in the UK, US and Singapore.
We also performed full scope auditprocedures on the businesses inBrazil and Germany.
The full scope locations represent the principal business units within theGroups four reportable segments and account for 74% 2014: 76% of the Groups revenue and 76% 2014: 77% of the Groups adjusted operating profit.
Our audit work at all the locations in the Group audit scope was executed at levels of materiality applicable toeach individual entity which was lower than Group materiality and ranged from8m to 10m.
REVENUE 2015 REVENUE 2014 Full audit 68% Full audit 70% Directed scope audit 6% Directed scope audit 6% Analytical review 26% Analytical review 24% ANALYTICAL OPERATING PROFIT 2015 ANALYTICAL OPERATING PROFIT 2014 Full audit 75% Full audit 71% Directed scope audit 10% Directed scope audit 6% Analytical review 15% Analytical review 23% 99 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INFORMA PLC CONTINUED At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the oftheCorporate Governance Statement relating to the aggregated financial information of the remaining components Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We have nothing to report arisingfrom our review.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior OUR DUTY TO READ OTHER INFORMATION Statutory Auditor or a designate visits each of the locations in the IN THE ANNUAL REPORT Group audit scope was focused at least once every two years Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, and the most significant of them at least once a year.
In years weare required to report to you if, in our opinion, information when we do not visit a significant component we include the inthe Annual Report is: component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk materially inconsistent with the information in the audited assessment, and review documentation of the findings from financial statements: or theirwork.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 inthecourse of performing our audit: or IN OUR OPINION: otherwise misleading.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited In particular, we are required to consider whether we have has been properly prepared in accordance with the identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired Companies Act 2006: and during the audit and the Directors statement thattheyconsider the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and Report for the financial year for which the financial statements whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
ADEQUACY OF EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED AND RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND AUDITOR Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities to you if, in our opinion: Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of we have not received all the information and explanations the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a werequire for our audit: or true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an adequate accounting records have not been kept by the opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We notbeen received from branches not visited by us: or also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK the Parent Company financial statements are not in and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that agreementwith the accounting records and returns.
our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
professional standards review team and independent partnerreviews.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a ifin our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting state to the Companys members those matters we are required records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and theCompanys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
100 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts anddisclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free frommaterial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report toidentify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
WILLIAM TOUCHE SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 10 February 2016 101 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
