STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 95 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC  In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group income statement, Group statement of comprehensive income, Group and Parent Company balance sheet, Group and Parent Company statement of changes in equity, Group and Parent Company cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 36.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
 LIQUIDITYOFTHEGROUP As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Risk management section of the Strategic Report on page 51.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on pages 48 to 51 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 48 to 51 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on pages 48 to 51 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
INDEPENDENCE We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
96 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC CONTINUED  The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk  We have tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the key automated and  manual controls relating to subscription and usage-based airtime revenue across the Groups principal Subscription and usage-based airtime revenue is billing systems.
the largest revenue stream within the business.
This revenue originates from both the I-3 and I-4 We have performed substantive analytical procedures to develop an expectation of revenue based upon constellations sold on a wholesale and retail basis usage data and subscription numbers which are the key drivers of each airtime revenue stream.
We have along with the resale of capacity from other also held meetings with the Vice Presidents of each of the Groups five market-facing business units to satellite operators.
corroborate the key movements and trends in revenue within the year.
A significant risk has been identified in respect of both To address the risk relating to occurrence of airtime revenue streams we have reviewed the reconciliation the occurrence and accuracy of airtime subscription between the general ledger and the billing systems.
and usage-based airtime revenue due to the highly material nature of this balance and the high volume We audited the accuracy of revenue by agreeing a sample of revenue transactions back to the customer of transaction leading to heightened susceptibility contracts with the distribution partner wholesale customers and published tariffs retail customers.
 We have obtained and reviewed the underlying contracts for all material take or pay agreements.
We have takeorpayfeatures considered the terms of these contracts to evaluate whether the revenue recognised is in accordance with A number of the Groups satellite capacity contracts IAS 18 and other accounting standards and guidance.
with customers have a take or pay feature.
The accounting policy for such agreements is set out in We have corroborated our understanding of the existence of such take or pay agreements through note 2 of the financial statements.
There is a risk that meeting with senior management both within finance and the market-facing business units to understand revenue associated with take or pay arrangements the commercial developments during the financial year.
could be recorded in an incorrect period, leading to a material error within the financial statements.
This risk is especially pertinent due to the material nature of these contracts, their non-standard terms, and the fact that any new contracts entered into may not necessarily run concurrently with calendar years.
 We have met with senior management throughout the year to corroborate our understanding of the Agreement commercial developments with LightSquared and to understand any potential impact this may have on The Group continues to hold a material balance of accounting for the agreement, as well as any technical developments which may impact the quantum of $208.8m deferred revenue in respect of the future compensation costs that the Group may incur.
The Groups accounting policy in respect of this agreement is We have tested the design and implementation of controls in respect of the recognition of previously summarised in note 4c to the financial statements.
deferred revenue and accounting for the payments received this year from LightSquared.
We consider that risks exist in relation to revenue and cost recognition for the agreement, as the We have assessed the level of uncertainty regarding the possible form of the cooperation agreement in the accounting policy is reliant on management future, and the impact this has on the deferred revenue on the balance sheet.
judgement, and there is a high degree of uncertainty surrounding the future of the We have performed substantive testing to confirm the cash received from LightSquared during the year, commercial relationship with LightSquared.
and have further considered whether managements recognition of these amounts on an accruals basis is appropriate.
Further, there is a cut-off risk in respect of the quarterly payments receivable from LightSquared.
As discussed in note 4c to the financial statements, Inmarsat has accrued for the payment of $17.9m due on 31 December 2015.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 97 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk  We have tested the design and implementation of controls in respect of the processes and procedures The Group capitalises significant internal labour which govern the capitalisation of development costs.
costs, external costs and qualifying borrowing costs in respect of major capital projects, most We have met the project leaders for the most financially significant capital projects, which account for 78% notably relating to satellite programmes and of current year capital expenditure, to corroborate the project status, feasibility of completion, and associated infrastructure such as the Global Xpress performance against budget, including investigating any derivations from budget.
programme and European Aviation Network.
Furthermore, we have carried out substantive testing in relation to each element of capitalised costs There is a risk in respect of valuation and allocation including inspecting supporting evidence for a sample of the capitalised costs, understanding the nature of of assets, that costs which do not meet the criteria the costs capitalised and considering whether they are consistent with the originally approved budget.
for capitalisation in accordance with IAS 16, IAS 38 and IAS 23 are inappropriately recorded on the In relation to borrowing costs we obtained the supporting calculations, verified the inputs to the calculation, balance sheet rather than expensed or that costs including testing a sample of cash payments, tested the mechanical accuracy of the model, and reviewed the continue to be held on the balance sheet despite no model to determine whether the borrowing costs for completed projects are no longer being capitalised.
longer meeting the relevant capitalisation criteria.
The Groups policy on the capitalisation of assets is included in note 2 to the financial statements.
Included in note 13 to the financial statements is property, plant and equipment with a net book value of $2,860m, of which $2,164m relates to space segment assets, and $604m relates to assets in the course of construction.
Included in note 14 to the financial statements are intangible assets with a net book value of $772m.
As disclosed in note 9 to the financial statements, capitalised borrowing costs totalled $35m in the year.
 We reviewed managements project plan and the appropriateness of governance controls around the During the year the Group implemented one instance identification of data to be moved across during the roll-out of the software, including the testing of of their accounting software system in all locations appropriate approvals.
with the exception of certain parts of the Government and Enterprise business units.
This represents over We reviewed the process of initial mapping to ensure the existing system configuration, data mapping, 91% of the Groups revenues.
timelines, periods, and sub-ledger configurations underlying the existing data were understood.
There is a risk that the data that has been migrated to We tested the design and implementation of controls to ensure the data quality and appropriateness, the new global instance of the accounting software including whether the data moved across to the new instance of the software had received appropriately system was not accurate or complete.
We performed substantive testing on the data of ledgers and sub-ledgers before and after the implementation to ensure their completeness and accuracy, including performing reconciliations between the two systems.
We used system interrogation software called eQSmart to assess and monitor the levels of system security, implemented authorisations and system enforced segregation of duties in the new global instance of accounting software.
Last year our report included four other risks which are not included in our report this year: change in segmental reporting this change was completed last year : the assessment of the carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets our work last year was focused on the re-designation of cash-generating units which has not occurred this year : accounting for the acquisition of Globe Wireless LLC the acquisition was completed last year : and working capital provisions the policy was new last year and is now well established.
Included for the first time this year, are the following risks: implementation of a new global ERP this occurred during the year : revenue recognition capacity contracts with take or pay features these contracts can be material in nature and involve management judgement.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 69.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
98 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC CONTINUED  The components subject to a full scope audit represent the principal business We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial units and account for 99.7% 2014: 100% of the Groups net assets, 99.3% statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably 2014: 100% of the Groups revenue and 99.4% 2014: 100% of the Groups knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified our work.
Our audit work at the three locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group We determined materiality for the Group to be $12.4m 2014: $11.2m.
This was materiality and ranged from $5m to $11.1m 2014: $4.5m to $9.0m.
calculated before 31 December 2015 and was based on 5% of forecast adjusted profit before tax 2014: 5%, which was in line with actual performance, and For the first time the scope of our audit also included consideration of the therefore resulted in 5% of actual adjusted profit before tax 2014: 5%, and less Groups longer-term viability statement, which was prepared in accordance with than 1% 2014: less than 1% of equity.
Pre-tax profit has been chosen as the the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our conclusions in respect of this work are basis for determining materiality as we determine this to be the most relevant set out above.
measure to users of the financial statements.
This has been adjusted to remove the impact of volatility arising from the revenue and costs associated with the At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation process and LightSquared Cooperation Agreement discussed in note 4c to the financial carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no statements.
The basis for determining materiality has not changed since significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial last year.
information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $250,000 2014: $225,000, as well as The Group audit team ensured that a senior member of the Group audit team differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on visited the US Government component in the current year.
For this component qualitative grounds.
we involved the component audit partner and manager in our team briefing, discussed their risk assessment and reviewed documentation of the findings  from their work.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of  material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we COMPANIESACT2006 focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at four locations, In our opinion: being London, United Kingdom: St Johns, Canada: Palm Bay, United States: and Reston, United States.
the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Following the Group finance transformation, and the move on to one global the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors instance of the Groups accounting software system, we changed our audit for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is approach to reflect the fact that the composition of components has changed.
consistent with the financial statements.
With the exception of one specific part of the US Government business, where we used a component audit team, we performed the Group audit with one  integrated team, led from London.
The supervision of the audit team included BYEXCEPTION the London team visiting the members of the audit team located in St Johns  and Palm Bay.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We determined there to be three components in the Group, being the core Inmarsat business unit headquartered in London, the US Government retail we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our business in Reston, USA and a separate element of the Enterprise business in audit: or Sydney, Australia TC Communications.
These two businesses in Reston and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, Sydney were determined to be separate components as they had a separate or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not financial control environment during the year.
The core Inmarsat and US visited by us: or Government components were subject to a full audit scope, whilst limited scope the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the procedures were performed on TC Communications due to the financial accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
 Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 99   Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or arising from our review.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have  been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any statements: or information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or otherwise misleading.
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any STEPHENGRIGGSFCA inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Senior Statutory Auditor Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider London, United Kingdom should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
3 March 2016  As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions we have formed.
