Independent Auditors US Report Report of independent registered public accounting rm on internal Report of independent registered public accounting rm control over financial reporting To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of InterContinental Hotels To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC.
We have audited the accompanying Group statement of financial We have audited InterContinental Hotels Group PLCs internal control position of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC as of 31 December 2015 over financial reporting as of 31 December 2015, based on criteria and 2014, and the related Group statements of income, comprehensive established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the income, changes in equity and cash ows for each of the three years in Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission the period ended 31 December 2015.
These Financial Statements are 2013 framework the COSO criteria.
InterContinental Hotels Group the responsibility of the Groups management.
Our responsibility is to PLCs management is responsible for maintaining effective internal express an opinion on these Financial Statements based on our audits.
control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards in the accompanying Managements report on internal control over require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the assurance about whether the Financial Statements are free of material Groups internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public supporting the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements.
Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the assurance about whether effective internal control over financial overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, In our opinion, the Financial Statements referred to above present assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control InterContinental Hotels Group PLC at 31 December 2015 and 2014, based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash ows for as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2015, in our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards as A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, InterContinental external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting Hotels Group PLCs internal control over financial reporting as of principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting 31 December 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Controlincludes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly Organizations of the Treadway Commission 2013 framework, reect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: and our report dated 22 February 2016 expressed an unqualied 2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as opinion thereon.
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and ERNST & YOUNG LLP expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with London, England authorisations of management and directors of the company: and 3 22 February 2016 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Notes: a T he maintenance and integrity of the InterContinental Hotels Group PLC website is Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to presented on the website.
b L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, InterContinental Hotels Group PLC maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2015, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, the accompanying 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC, and our report dated 22 February 2016 expressed an unqualied opinion thereon.
ERNST & YOUNG LLP London, England 22 February 2016 86 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
