STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Independent Auditors UK Report Independent Auditors Report to the What we have audited members of InterContinental Hotels InterContinental Hotels Group PLCs IHGs, the Groups Financial Statements for the year Group PLC ended 31 December 2015 comprise: Our opinion on the Financial Statements In our opinion: Group Company InterContinental Hotels Group PLCs Group Group income statement Parent company statement of financial position Financial Statements and Parent Company Group statement of comprehensive income Parent company statement of changes in equity Financial Statements the Financial Group statement of changes in equity Related notes 1 to 10 to the Financial Statements Statements give a true and fair view Group statement of financial position of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Group statement of cash ows Companys affairs as at 31 December Related notes 1 to 33 to the Financial Statements 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group the Group Financial Statements have Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The been properly prepared in accordance financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company with International Financial Reporting Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Standards IFRSs as adopted by Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard the European Union: 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance Overview of our audit approach with United Kingdom Accounting Standards Risks of material Accounting for the hotel assessments collected as part of the revenue cycle and the allocation United Kingdom Generally Accepted misstatement of expenditures related to the marketing, advertising and loyalty programmes the System Fund Accounting Practice, including Financial The valuation of the future redemption of IHG Rewards Club points liability.
Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Capitalisation of software assets and carrying value of legacy systems.
Kimpton acquisition purchase price accounting.
Framework: and Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 19 components and audit the Financial Statements have been procedures on specic balances for a further 20 components.
prepared in accordance with the The components where we performed full or specic audit procedures accounted for 88% of profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax exceptional items and 79% of revenue.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006, Materiality Overall Group materiality of $30m which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax and, as regards the Group Financial exceptional items.
Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identied the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the Financial Statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
What we concluded Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Accounting for the hotel assessments We have tested the controls over the calculation of hotel assessments, In accordance collected as part of the revenue cycle and allocation of expenses, related IT systems and eliminations from with the principles the allocation of expenditures related to IHGs ledgers.
agreed with the IHG the marketing, advertising and loyalty Owners Association For a sample of hotel assessments and expenses recorded in the Fund, programmes the System Fund we are satisfied that we agreed that they are in accordance with the principles as agreed with System Fund hotel Refer to the Strategic Report page 47, the the IHG Owners Association: supported by appropriate documentation related assessment Audit Committee Report page 63 : Critical and, based on our inspection of that supporting documentation, have fees, contributions accounting policies and the use of judgements, made an independent assessment of whether the hotel assessments and expenses, have estimates and assumptions page 98 : and and contributions and expenses relate to the Fund.
been appropriately note 32 of the Group Financial Statements.
identied and have Given the accounting treatment adopted for the Fund is a key judgement: been excluded from As outlined in the Strategic Report on page 47, we considered the appropriateness of the classication of the System IHGs Group income the System Fund the Fund is a key part of the Fund surplus between short-term and long-term, and the related statement.
disclosures provided in critical accounting policies and the use of judgements, estimates and assumptions page 98 and note 32 of the For the year ended 31 December 2015, and as Group Financial Statements.
detailed in note 32, the Fund has assessment fees and contributions of $1,351m and expenses of $1,455m.
These amounts are not included in IHGs income statement.
We focus on this area because there is a risk that the hotel assessments could be included in IHGs reported revenue, which would overstate IHGs revenues: or that Group costs are incorrectly charged to the Fund, improperly reducing IHGs expenses and leading to a misstatement of IHGs income statement.
The magnitude of the risk ie, the likelihood of occurrence and the size of an error should it occur is consistent with the prior year.
IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 81 Independent Auditors UK Report continued What we concluded Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee The valuation of the future redemption We tested internal financial controls, including IT controls, over The valuation of of IHG Rewards Club IRC points liability the liability valuation process, including controls over validation the future of the completeness and accuracy of data provided to IHGs external redemption Refer to the Audit Committee Report actuarial adviser and managements internal review process of the of the IRC points page 63 : Critical accounting policies and inputs and the overall estimate of the rewards point liability.
liability at the use of judgements, estimates and 31 December 2015 assumptions page 98 : and note 32 of the For the three key inputs into the liability valuation we undertook is within an Group Financial Statements.
the following audit procedures: acceptable range.
We focused on this area due to the size of 1.
O utstanding loyalty points at 31 December 2015 The range of the liability $649m at 31 December 2015, We tested controls over the complete and accurate recording probable outcomes and its sensitivity, in particular, to the breakage of point data and tested the roll forward of the points balance is wider than in prior estimate as dened on page 98.
Changes in to 31 December 2015, and veried to underlying records.
years reecting the the valuation of the liability are charged to the lack of historical 2.
T he outstanding points redemption ratio breakage System Fund surplus deficit and not to IHGs observable trends We engaged our own actuarial specialists to assist us in challenging income statement.
of the behavioural and evaluating the appropriateness of the methodology, data and impact on breakage There is an additional input assumption in assumptions applied by management in determining the redemption following the the calculation of the breakage estimate in the ratio breakage for members outstanding loyalty points at the introduction of the current year, reecting the announcement of balance sheet date.
the modication to the point expiration policy In addition to testing the integrity of the companys model, in April 2015. we developed our own model to form an independent view The magnitude of the risk ie, the likelihood on an acceptable range for the redemption ratios to assess of occurrence and the size of an error should the reasonableness of key assumptions applied by management it occur has increased from the prior year, in valuing the liability.
reflecting the additional input assumption 3.
Re deemed point cost RPC in the calculation of the breakage estimate.
We performed substantive and analytical procedures to validate the RPC to be applied to the liability calculation.
Capitalisation of software assets and carrying We tested internal financial controls, including IT controls, over the We concluded that value of legacy systems approval, acquisition, development of new software and managements the carrying value assessment of impairment.
of software assets Refer to the Strategic Report page 17 : the at 31 December 2015 Audit Committee Report page 63 : Critical We obtained a listing of new projects initiated in the year, and agreed is appropriate.
accounting policies and the use of judgements, a sample to underlying documentation to test they had been reviewed estimates and assumptions page 99 : and note and approved in line with the Groups delegation of authority.
13 of the Group Financial Statements.
For both existing and new projects, we assessed the costs capitalised Given the Groups continued development of as compared to the requirements of IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
its technology environment and the size of the We performed tests of details by vouching specic expenditures to capitalised software balance $296m as at supporting documentation to validate a sample of software additions 31 December 2015, of which $94m has been in the year.
capitalised in the year, we continue to focus on this area.
Software projects can have complex We inspected managements impairment review and considered the developments cycles, often over many phases, appropriateness of the conclusions reached through inspection of the spanning two to three years, or more.
New underlying supporting workpapers, inquiries of management, technology also brings a risk of impairment independent validation that no carrying value was attributed to legacy of legacy systems.
systems no longer in use, and the inspection of a full asset listing.
New in 2015 We tested internal financial controls over the identication of intangible The fair values assets, the determination and review of assumptions used in the of the assets and Kimpton acquisition purchase price allocation and classication of intangible assets liabilities recognised purchase price accounting as definite lived or indefinite lived.
on the acquisition of Kimpton have Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 63 : We corroborated the assumptions underpinning the valuations, been measured on Critical accounting policies and the use of assessed the fair value of the identied assets and liabilities, and a reasonable basis.
judgements, estimates and assumptions evaluated the adequacy of the acquisition disclosures in note 10 page 99 : and note 10 of the Group Financial of the Group Financial Statements.
Assisted by our business valuation specialists, we corroborated We focused on this area given the significant managements assumptions by comparing to relevant market discount judgements involved in assessing the fair values and royalty rates and our experience of useful lives of similar intangible of assets and liabilities acquired as this directly assets.
We corroborated that management had been consistent in its impacts the amount of goodwill recognised on approach to valuation, in particular in respect of management contracts.
The fair values of intangible assets such as brands and management contracts are based on valuation techniques built, in part, on assumptions around the future performance of the business.
82 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION In addition to the risks identied as part of our audit planning, the Group undertook the following material non-routine transactions in the year which affected the allocation of resources and the direction of our audit efforts and for which our audit response was as follows: What we concluded Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Disposal of owned hotels For each hotel disposal: We concluded We tested internal financial controls over the disposal transaction that the fair value Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 63 : and accounting: attributed to the and note 11 of the Group Financial Statements.
We inspected all key contracts in relation to the sale, including the hotel management sale and purchase agreement and the related hotel management agreements entered We focus on this area due to the disposal agreements, to corroborate that the risks and rewards of ownership in to as part of both of both InterContinental Paris Le Grand of the asset had passed and hence fide-recognition of the hotel transactions to be and InterContinental Hong Kong in the year was appropriate.
reasonable and that resulting in the recognition of a combined We agreed the calculation of the accounting gain recognised on the gains recognised $873m gain on disposal.
Included within the disposal, including the fair value attributed to the hotel management on disposal of the calculation of this gain is the recognition of agreement.
We tested the appropriateness of the assumptions owned hotels have the fair value of the management contract applied to the discounted cash ow models used in determining been correctly agreements entered in to as part of the the valuation of the management contract.
disposal transactions, the valuation of which Given the size and nature of the disposal gain, we considered incorporates a number of judgements.
The disclosure the appropriateness of its classication as an exceptional item of these gains as in line with the Groups accounting policy for such items as set out exceptional items are on page 98. in accordance with the Groups disclosed accounting policy for exceptional items and is in accordance with the requirements of IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material impact on the significant accounts in the Financial Statements either misstatement as follows: the recognition of deferred tax assets because of the size of these accounts or their risk prole.
The risks of relating to losses.
In the current year, the stability of profits in overseas material misstatement included in the table above were subject to full jurisdictions and the related UK tax legislation means that the level of audit procedures.
judgement required in determining the amount of deferred tax assets to The reporting components where we performed audit procedures be recognised is no longer a risk of material misstatement that had the accounted for 88% 2014: 86% of the Groups profit before tax greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources adjusted for pre-tax exceptional items and 79% 2014: 77% of the in the audit and the direction of efforts in the audit team.
The scope of our audit For the current year, the full scope components contributed 59% Tailoring the scope 2014: 63% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our exceptional items, and 60% 2014: 70% of the Groups revenue.
allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for The specic scope component contributed 29% 2014: 23% of the each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form Groups profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax exceptional items, an opinion on the Financial Statements.
We take into account size, and 19% 2014: 7% of the Groups revenue.
The audit scope of these risk prole, the organisation of the Group, including IHGs global components may not have included testing of all significant accounts accounting centre in India, and effectiveness of group-wide controls, of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of changes in the business environment and other factors such as Global significant accounts tested for the Group.
This included specic Internal Audit review findings when assessing the level of work to be procedures on the income statement of the InterContinental Hong performed at each entity.
Kong hotel for the period prior to its disposal.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Financial Of the remaining components that together represent 12% of the Statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage Groups profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax exceptional items: none of significant accounts in the Financial Statements, we selected 39 are individually greater than 4% of the Groups profit before tax components covering components within IHGs global accounting adjusted for pre-tax exceptional items.
For three components, we centre in India, the United States, the United Kingdom, and China, performed review scope procedures.
For the remaining components: which represent the principal business units within the Group.
none of which are individually greater than 2% of the Groups profit The Primary Audit Engagement Team the Primary Team performs before tax adjusted for pre-tax exceptional items, we performed other the audit on those areas of accounting performed centrally such as procedures, including analytical review at both regional levels and litigation and consolidation adjustments.
at owned hotels, and testing of journals across the Group to respond Of the 39 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial information of 19 components full scope components Financial Statements.
which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 20 components specic scope components, we performed audit procedures on specic accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 83 Independent Auditors UK Report continued The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work Our application of materiality performed by our audit teams.
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identied misstatements on the audit profit before tax adjusted for Revenue and in forming our audit opinion.
pre-tax exceptional items Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 12% 21% decisions of the users of the Financial Statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $30 million 2014: $28 29% 60% million, which is 5% 2014: 5% of profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax 59% 19% exceptional items.
We believe that profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax exceptional items provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality and is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
Detailed audit procedures are performed on material exceptional items.
Full scope components Specic scope components Starting basis profit before tax $1,412m Other procedures Changes from the prior year Adjust for pre-tax exceptional items of $819m Adjustment We have made the following changes to our scope: to determine adjusted profit before tax Following its disposal in May 2015, the income statement of InterContinental Paris Le Grand, for the period to the date Totals $593m materiality basis of disposal, was subject to review procedures performed by Materiality the Primary Team 2014: full scope.
Materiality of $30m 5% of materiality basis Following its disposal in September 2015, InterContinental Hong Kong was designated specic scope 2014: full scope.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and IHG acquired Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants Group, LLC the only change in final materiality was to reect the actual reported in January 2015.
The purchase price allocation was subject to performance of the Group in the year.
full scope audit procedures performed by the Primary Team.
Performance materiality In addition, the Kimpton component was designated a review The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
scope with procedures performed by the Primary Team.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability Involvement with component teams that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined exceeds materiality.
the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment components by us, as the Primary Team, or by component auditors of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that from other EY global network rms operating under our instruction.
performance materiality was 75% 2014: 75% of our planning Of the 19 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on materiality, namely $23m 2014: $21m.
We have set performance three of these directly by the Primary Team and 16 by component audit materiality at this percentage to ensure that the total uncorrected teams.
Of the 20 specic scope components, audit procedures were and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed performed on these by component audit teams.
We determined the our materiality.
appropriate level of involvement with the component teams to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The The Primary Team continued to follow a programme of planned visits performance materiality set for each component is based on the that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor, or relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole her delegate, visits each of the key locations at both the interim and and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
year-end stages of the audit process.
During the current years audit In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated cycle, visits were undertaken, at least twice, by the Primary Team to to components was $1m to $23m 2014: $1m to $21m.
the component teams at key locations in the United States and IHGs global accounting centre in India.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the clearly trivial.
component team and any issues arising from their work, meeting with local management, and reviewing key audit working papers We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all on the Group risk areas.
The Primary Team interacted regularly with uncorrected audit differences in excess of $1.5m 2014: $1.4m, which the component teams, where appropriate, during various stages of is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light evidence for our opinion on the Group Financial Statements.
of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
84 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Standards for Auditors.
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider In our opinion: the implications for our report.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor 2006: and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors set out on page 80, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report is: We have no UK and Ireland materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or exceptions reporting apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge to report.
of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no 2006 reporting adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our exceptions audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or to report.
the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules We are required to review: We have no review the Directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 155, and longer-term viability, set out exceptions requirements on page 27: and to report.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention We have UK and Ireland to in relation to: nothing reporting the Directors conrmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the material principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, to add or solvency or liquidity: to draw the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed attention to.
or mitigated: the Directors statement in the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identication of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: and the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
Alison Duncan Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor, London 22 February 2016 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 85
