Other Information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Intertek Group plc only OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT used our own Corporate Finance specialists to assist us in 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified assessing the discount rates and terminal growth rates applied We have audited the financial statements of Intertek Group plc to the forecast cash flows and compared the earnings forecasts for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 90 to to external market data such as analyst reports 137.
In our opinion: We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures the financial statements give a true and fair view of the in respect of asset carrying values and impairment testing state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs in note 9. as at 31December 2015 and of the Groups loss for the Identification and valuation of intangible assets acquired year then ended: as part of Professional Services Industries, Inc PSI the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Goodwill and other intangible assets acquired on in accordance with International Financial Reporting acquisition 212.3 million see notes 9 and 10 New Standards as adopted by the European Union: event-driven risk the parent Company financial statements have been properly Refer to page 79 Audit & Risk Committee Report, page prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, 107 accounting policy and page 111 financial disclosures.
including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance The risk During the year, the Group acquired 100% of PSI.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, Identification and valuation of intangible assets as part of the as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of acquisition accounting is considered a significant risk as a result the IAS Regulation.
In determining the fair value of these assets, medium term cash flow forecasts have been 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement prepared by the Group.
The inherent uncertainty involved In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial in forecasting future cash flows, and the judgement involved statements the risks of material misstatement that had the in the selection of the appropriate discount rate, make this greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit a subjective area.
significance, were as follows: Our response Our procedures included using our own Impairment of goodwill 481.4m 2014: nil valuation specialists to assist us in critically assessing the Refer to page 79 Audit Committee Report, page 107 appropriateness of both: the identification of acquired accounting policy, and pages 107 to 110 financial disclosures intangibles against the criteria of the relevant accounting standards: and the discount rates applied in estimating the The risk The Group has significant goodwill and other fair value of those assets, by comparing the inputs used in acquired intangible assets in a wide range of geographical determining the discount rate to externally derived data.
locations, and during the year recognised a 577.3m Our testing of the principles and integrity of the Groups cash impairment charge of which 481.4m related to the impairment flow models included comparing the Groups forecast revenue of the goodwill held in respect of the Industry Services CGU, growth and margin assumptions to Board approved reports as with the remainder being against other intangible assets and well as our own assessments in relation to key inputs such as property, plant and equipment of that CGU following a decline growth rates and asset lives.
We also considered the adequacy in current and forecast performance in light of the continued of the Groups disclosures in respect of the acquisition and the deterioration of oil and gas prices.
These assets are reviewed, related judgements in note 10. either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a wider cashgenerating unit CGU, for impairment using a value in use Current tax provisioning and deferred tax balances: calculation, based on forecast cash flows, growth rates and Current tax liability 51.7m 2014: 35.2m, Deferred tax discount rates, all of which require a high level of judgement.
asset 42.7m 2014: 24.6m The assessment of future cash flows for the Industry Services Refer to page 79 Audit & Risk Committee Report, pages CGU is particularly dependent on the expectation of the timing 96, 101 and 102 accounting policy and pages 101 to 104 of the recovery in the Oil & Gas sector as explained on page 32. financial disclosures.
Our response We challenged the key assumptions used in The risk The Group operates in numerous tax jurisdictions the value in use calculation for each CGU tested, such as across the world.
As a result the tax charge is determined earnings and cashflow forecasts, the terminal growth and according to a variety of sometimes complex tax laws and discount rate assumptions: comparing earnings forecasts with regulations.
Where the effect of these laws and regulations Board approved budgets: comparing the results of the is unclear, judgement is applied in determining the liability discounted cash flows against the Groups market capitalisation for the tax to be paid.
In addition, the recognition of deferred to determine if there were any significant differences that tax assets can be complex due to the judgements and required further examination: and applying sensitivities where estimates required in forecasting future taxable profits assets had a higher risk of impairment.
We used external data, across these jurisdictions.
where necessary, in assessing and corroborating the assumptions used in the impairment testing, the most Our response Our procedures included using our own tax significant being the assumption over future oil and gas prices specialists, in the UK, USA and China, to assist us in assessing and challenged the basis for the Groups forecasts.
We also and challenging the assumptions and judgements made by the tested the mathematical accuracy of the impairment models Directors and in assessing specific local tax issues.
In assessing and performed sensitivity analysis to test the completeness and the Directors assumptions in determining provisions for transfer amount of the impairment charge recognised in the year.
We pricing and other exposures, we have used both our own tax 138 OTHER INFORMATION INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 OTHER INFORMATION specialists knowledge of recent tax cases and, where available, 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the external data on the pattern of recent local tax settlements.
In scope of our audit assessing the level of deferred tax balances recognised in the Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was statement of financial position we compared the assumptions set at 14.4m, determined with reference to a benchmark of used in respect of future taxable income to the Groups longGroup loss before tax for continuing operations normalised to term forecasts for the relevant countries.
We challenged the exclude this years impairment charge disclosed on the face Groups long-term forecasts by evaluating the assumptions and of the income statement as part of separately disclosed items, methodologies used as well as checking for consistency against being a profit of 281.7m, of which it represents 5.1%, forecasts used to support the recoverable amount of goodwill.
2014: 6.5% of group profit In particular, we considered the assumptions relating to the before tax.
forecast revenue growth and profit margins in the relevant We reported to the Audit & Risk Committee any corrected and countries using externally derived data and our own uncorrected identified misstatements in excess of 0.5m 2014: assessments in relation to key inputs.
We also assessed the 1m, in addition to other identified misstatements that adequacy of the Groups related disclosures in note 6. warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Carrying amount of the customer claims provision: The Group has over 45 reporting components, of which we 18.5m 2014: 6.8m subjected 34 2014: 32 to audits for group reporting purposes, Refer to page 79 Audit & Risk Committee Report, page 96 and 3 2014:1 to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The accounting policy and page 113 financial disclosures.
latter was not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes, but did present The risk The Group is involved in various claims and lawsuits specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
These incidental to the ordinary course of its business.
The omission procedures covered 83% 2014: 81% of Group revenue, 91% of one or more significant claim from the customer claims 2014: 83% of the total profits and losses that made up group provision and the judgement involved in estimating the profit before tax and 87% 2014: 78% of Group total assets.
amounts included for an individual claim is considered a key For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an audit risk due to the large number of subsidiaries and aggregated level to re-examine our assessment that there were geographically diverse operations of the Group.
For the various no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
customer claims identified and reported across the Group, and those acquired as a result of the acquisition of PSI, the The Group team instructed component auditors as to the determination of the required provision amount, if any, is significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks inherently subjective due to the range of potential outcomes detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The and the uncertainty around its resolution.
Group team approved each component materiality, which ranged from 0.1m to 4.6m 2014: 0.1m to 4.5m having Our response Our procedures included: challenging the regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across completeness of the Groups monitoring of claims by assessing the components.
The audits and specified risk-focused audit the process by which claims across the Group are reported procedures for group reporting purposes were performed by and collated for the Group Claims Summary: assessing the component auditors with the rest of the work being performed completeness of claims reported by local management for by the Group team.
The Group team visited three locations in inclusion in the Groups Claims Summary, based on a the year: UK, US and China.
Telephone meetings were also held comparison with claims identified at a subsidiary level by with these component auditors and certain others that were component auditors: assessing the historical accuracy of the not physically visited.
At these meetings, the findings reported Group in identification of claims and inclusion thereof in the to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any Claims Summary: obtaining formal confirmations from the further work required by the Group team was then performed Groups lawyers in respect of key claims in the last 24 months by the component auditor.
as well as legal due diligence reports performed for the acquisition of PSI, in order to assess the status of any legal 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the claims which the Group is dealing with and whether all Companies Act 2006 is unmodified potential exposures have been identified: and, challenging In our opinion: the key assumptions made by the Directors in calculating the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be provision based on our assessment of the historical accuracy audited has been properly prepared in accordance with of the Groups estimates and assumptions in previous periods the Companies Act 2006: and and in consideration of the relevant insurance cover and the information given in the Strategic Report and the relevant accounting standards.
We also assessed the adequacy Directors Report for the financial year for which the of the Groups related disclosures in notes 13 and 22. financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 OTHER INFORMATION 139 Other Information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Intertek Group plc only continued 5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of SCOPE OF REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES principal risks As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we Statement set out on page 88, the Directors are responsible have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the Directors long-term viability statement on page 39, the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
uk on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made solely to the Group continuing in operation over the 5 years to 2020: or Companys members as a body and is subject to important the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
published on our website at www.
com uk 6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report on which we are required to report by exception as if set out in full and should be read to provide an Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, STEPHEN WARDELL or that is otherwise misleading.
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor In particular, we are required to report to you if: Chartered Accountants we have identified material inconsistencies between the 15 Canada Square knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors London E14 5GL statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 1 March 2016 financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit & Risk Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on pages 82 and 39, in relation to going concern and longer term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 54 to 55, relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
140 OTHER INFORMATION INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
