Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ITV plc Only Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ITV plc Only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of ITV plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 97 to 170.
In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards asadopted by the European Union: The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, were as follows: The Audit Committees consideration of these significant risks is set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 62 to 67.
The risk Our response Revenue recognition and contractual arrangements see note 2.1 The Groups revenue consists primarily of advertising, programme production and programme rights.
Net Advertising Revenue NAR 1,719 million Our procedures included: 2014:1,629 million Testing of controls, assisted by our own IT specialists, including The majority of ITVs advertising revenue NAR is subject to those over: input of individual campaigns terms and pricing, regulation under Ofcoms Contract Rights Renewal system comparison ofthose terms and pricing data against the related CRR.
CRR works by ensuring that the annual share of TV contracts with advertising agencies: linkage to transmission viewer advertising that will be placed with ITV by each advertising data: and segregation of duties agency can change in relation to the viewing figures for Testing managements review controls over: contract approval: commercial television that it delivers.
The CRR system, the periodic deal reconciliations and the related deal debt adjustment pricing of the annual contractual arrangements with advertising Analysing revenue based on our industry knowledge and external agencies and the details of each advertising campaign, together market data, following up variances and with the related processes and controls, are complex and Challenging the year-end deal debt position based on comparison involve estimation.
with customers correspondence and agreed terms of business In particular, the pricing mechanism means it is possible for a We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect difference to arise between the price paid for an advertising of the accounting policies on revenue recognition set out in note 2.1. campaign and the value it delivered, mainly as a result of the actual viewing figures being different from the agreed level.
Where the Group has over-delivered viewers this is referred to as a deal credit, or a deal debt where delivery has fallen short.
Rather than the price paid for that campaign being adjusted, these differences are noted for each agency and then taken account of when agreeing either future campaigns or the annual contract.
Anet deal debt position with an agency is recorded in ITVs accounts, as a liability.
Net deal credit positions are not recognised.
NAR is therefore considered a significant risk due to: The number and complexity of contractual agreements with advertising agencies The complexity of the systems and processes of control used torecord revenue and The level of estimation involved in determining the deal debt liability at the period end ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ITV plc Only continued The risk Our response Other revenue streams Non-NAR revenue 1,253 million Our procedures included: 2014: 961 million Testing of controls over the timing of revenue recognition.
Non-NAR revenue includes revenue from: programme Weconsidered the Groups revenue recognition policies against production, the sale of programme rights, transmission supply therelevant accounting standards and arrangements and the Online, Pay & Interactive division within For a sample of contracts entered into during the year, we tested the Broadcast segment.
whether revenue had been recognised in accordance with the Recognition of non-NAR revenue is driven by the specific terms contractual terms in the correct accounting period, given the of the related contracts.
It is considered to be a risk as the terms requirements of the relevant accounting standard of the contracts are varied and can be complex, with the result that accounting for the revenue generated in any given period can require individual consideration.
Acquisition accounting: Talpa Media B. V. initial consideration 238 million and goodwill arising 41 million see notes 3.3 and 3.4 2014: Leftfield Entertainment initial consideration 209 million and goodwill arising 139 million ITV acquired 100% of Talpa Media on 30 April 2015.
The Our procedures included: acquisition agreement requires the seller to provide services Inspecting the terms of the acquisition contracts to determine to ITV for a period of seven years, in order to qualify for whether the accounting treatment of performance-related performance-based payments after two, five and seven years.
consideration arrangements applied is appropriate based on the Further, a portion of the initial consideration is repayable if the criteria of the relevant accounting standards seller ceases to provide services for a two year period after Using our own valuation specialists to assist us in: assessing both acquisition.
Accounting for the Talpa acquisition is considered the appropriateness of the identified intangibles, against the asignificant risk as a result of the following factors: criteria of the relevant accounting standards, and the The Group is required to make a number of judgements, appropriateness of the discount rates whichfocus on, but are not limited to: assessment of whether Comparing the Groups forecast revenue growth and margins the performance-related consideration arrangements are assumptions to our own assessments, based on our industry acquisition consideration or post-acquisition remuneration, knowledge, in relation to key inputs such as the useful lives of, identification of intangible assets acquired and assessment andlikelihood of revenue from, existing formats and offair value of the acquired assets and liabilities and Understanding of the principles applied by the Group in In determining the fair value of the acquired intangible assets determining the acquisition date fair values for the remaining and the contingent consideration and remuneration payable, assets and liabilities and agreeing significant adjustments to medium term cashflow forecasts have been prepared by ITV.
supporting documentation, such as underlying contracts and The inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting future cash vendor due diligence reports flows and the judgement involved in the selection of the We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in appropriate discount rate makes this a key area of focus respect of the acquisition and the related judgments in note 3.4.
Defined benefit pension schemes 176 million 2014: 346 million see note 3.7 Significant estimates are made in valuing the Groups postIn this area our procedures included challenging the key assumptions retirement defined benefit schemes.
applied in determining the Groups net deficit, being the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality life expectancy, with the support The key valuation assumptions are set out in note 3.7 in the ofour own actuarial specialists.
This included a comparison of these Assumptions section.
When making these assumptions the key assumptions against externally derived data.
Group takes independent actuarial advice relating to their appropriateness.
We also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficits to these assumptions in note3.7.
The valuation is considered to be a significant risk as, given the quantum of the pension deficit, small changes in the assumptions can have a material financial impact on the Group.
94 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ITV plc Only The risk Our response Royalty accruals 69 million 2014: 70 million see note 3.1.
5 The Group pays royalties directly to artists or producers for Among other procedures, we tested manual controls over the content used.
The contractual terms of these agreements are recording of royalty costs and the approval of royalty payments.
We re-performed a sample of the Groups annual royalty calculations, The related IT systems can only address part of the processing, agreeing key inputs to contracts and the underlying system data.
necessitating a significant manual element in calculating In addition, for a sample of programs, we performed analytical royalty accruals recorded by the Group.
procedures, comparing the royalty costs recorded in the financial Overall the process is complex and the volume and variety of statements to our expectation using participation percentages from contracts being interpreted and accounted for combined with the underlying contracts, and following up variances.
the manual nature of the process increases the risk of error.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 29 million 2014: 25 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents 4.6% 2014: 4.1%.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 1.5 million 2014:1million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Scoping and coverage Revenue Profit before tax Total assets Group audited 80% Group audited 88% Group audited 85% Specified audit Specified audit Specified audit procedures 12% procedures 6% procedures 3% Not in scope 8% Not in scope 6% Not in scope 12% The Groups principal operations are in the United Kingdom and only the core UK operations comprising Broadcast and Online, the UK Studios, Global Entertainment and the central functions are scoped in for Group audit purposes.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the core UK operations as if they were a single aggregated set of financial information using materiality of 25 million 2014: 23 million.
The Group audit team performed all of the audit procedures over the risks related to the acquisition of Talpa Media.
Although not in-scope for Group reporting purposes, in agreement with the Audit Committee, specified audit procedures were also performed on two entities in the US and one entity in the Netherlands by component auditors simultaneously with the audit of the Group and UK operations.
The Group audit team set the materiality for specified audit procedures at 5 million for all components.
Together the above audit and these specified audit procedures covered 92% 2014: 96% of total Group revenue, 94% 2014: 99% of Group profit before taxation: and 88% 2014: 99% of total Group assets.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ITV plc Only continued 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: The Directors statement of long term viability on page 47, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 31 December 2018 or The disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy or The Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us or The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The Directors statements, set out on pages 91 and 47, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 58 to 61 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 91, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of anaudit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we haveundertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Mark Summerfield Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 2 March 2016 96 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
