Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of JD Sports Fashion Plc only Opinions and Conclusions Arising from our Audit - We assessed the overall consistency of the assumptions and of the estimated inputs, including the potential risk 1.
Our Opinion on the Financial Statements is Unmodified of management bias by comparing growth and discount We have audited the financial statements of JD Sports Fashion rates applied in the models across each class of goodwill Plc for the 52 week period ended 31 January 2015 set out on and intangibles.
In our opinion: - We challenged the directors assumptions on revenue the financial statements give a true and fair view of the and margin growth for management bias by critically state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs analysing their strategy for future growth and undertook as at 31 January 2015 and of the Groups profit for the our own assessments of future growth potential based year then ended: on long term growth within the market and historic the Group financial statements have been properly prepared performance of margin growth within the Group.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting - We also used our own KPMG valuation specialist to Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as assess the reasonableness of the discount rates applied adopted by the EU : to each class of goodwill and intangibles.
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly - W e considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU in respect of impairment testing and whether disclosures and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment Companies Act 2006: and assessment to changes in the key assumptions reflected the financial statements have been prepared in accordance the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, intangible assets.
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Carrying Value of Inventories 225.0m IAS Regulation.
Refer to page 64 Audit Committee Report, page 112 2.
Our Assessment of Risks of Material Misstatement accounting policy and page 112 financial disclosures In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements The risk over the carrying value of inventories is considered a the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect significant audit risk due to the seasonal nature of the Groups on our audit were as follows: core retail business, the changing desirability of branded products over time and the judgment therefore made in Goodwill and Intangibles 101.1m assessing the recoverability of its carrying value.
Refer to page 64 Audit Committee Report, page 103 Our response Our audit procedures included testing the accounting policy and pages 100 to 106 financial disclosures principles and integrity of the obsolescence provision The risk There is a risk of impairment of the groups calculations used across the Group principally by performing significant goodwill and intangible balances due to our own assessments in relation to key assumptions within the challenging trading conditions in certain of the high street model such as the proportion of current inventory expected to retail sectors and locations that the Group operates in.
become aged in the future and average proceeds received Goodwill and intangibles are reviewed by the directors for for aged inventory.
We assessed the overall consistency of impairment using value in use models, except for brand the assumptions, including the potential risk of management names which are reviewed for impairment using an estimate bias by comparing the assumptions to those used in prior of fair value less cost to sell based on the royalty relief periods, coupled with a review of inventory sold below cost method of valuation.
The directors perform their reviews on during the year and margins achieved for aged inventory groups of individual cash generating units CGUs.
Included sold post year end.
Finally we considered the adequacy of within the 5.1m total impairment of intangible assets the financial statements disclosures in respect of gross recognised in the year is a write down of 2.5m in relation inventory and inventory provisioning.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved 3.
Our Application of Materiality and an Overview of the in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which are Scope of Our Audit used as the basis of the assessment of recoverability of all goodwill and intangible assets, this is one of the key The materiality of the Group financial statements as a whole was judgmental areas that our audit concentrated on.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of Group operating profit before exceptional Our response our audit procedures included items, both continuing and discontinued operations of which it - An assessment of the Groups historical budgeting represents 8.6%, which we consider to be one of the principal accuracy and challenge of the assumptions used in the considerations for members of the company in assessing the current year budgets upon which the cash flow forecasts financial performance of the Group.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected - In addition we have tested the principles and integrity of misstatements exceeding 0.4 million, in addition to other audit the discounted cash flow models used and performed misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions underlying the cash flow forecasts revenue growth and margin growth and the discount rates used.
78 Financial Statements Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by the section of the Corporate Governance Statement describing component auditors at the key reporting components in the the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately following countries: UK two entities, France one entity, and address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Group audit team instructed component Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the you if, in our opinion: relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported adequate accounting records have not been kept by the back.
The Group audit team visited component locations in parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have France and Spain.
At these visits, the findings reported to the not been received from branches not visited by us: or Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further the parent company financial statements and the part of work required by the Group audit team was then performed the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in by the component auditor.
The group procedures covered agreement with the accounting records and returns: or 74% of total Group revenue: 83% of the total Group profits certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by and losses before taxation: and 90% of total Group assets law are not made: or and liabilities.
The remaining 26% of total group revenue, 17% of group profit before tax and 10% of total group assets we have not received all the information and explanations is represented by 24 reporting components, none of which we require for our audit: or individually represented more than 2% of any of total group a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared revenue, group profit before tax or total group assets.
by the company For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that the Directors statement, set out on page 62, in relation to there were no significant risks of material misstatement within going concern: and these.
The Group audit team performed the audits of the UK the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages components in accordance with materiality levels used for local 63 to 66 relating to the companys compliance with the ten audits.
These local materiality levels were set individually for provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code each component in the Group and ranged between 2.0m specified for our review: and and 6.2m.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Our Opinion on Other Matters P rescribed by the Scope of Report and Responsibilities Companies Act 2006 is Unmodified As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities In our opinion: Statement set out on page 77, the directors are responsible for the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited the preparation of the financial statements and for being has been properly prepared in accordance with the satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the Companies Act 2006: and scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the the information given in the Strategic report and Directors Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
uk report for the financial year for which the financial statements auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made solely to the companys are prepared is consistent with the financial statements, and members as a body and is subject to important explanations information given in the Corporate Governance Statement and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on set out on pages 63 to 66 with respect to internal control and our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which risk management systems in relation to financial reporting are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be processes and about share capital structures is consistent read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, with the financial statements the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
W e Have Nothing to Report in Respect of the Matters on Which We Are Required to Report by Exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you Mick Davies Senior Statutory Auditor if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor have identified other information in the annual report that Chartered Accountants contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or 1 St. Peters Square the financial statements, a material misstatement or fact, or Manchester that is otherwise misleading.
M2 3AE 15 April 2015 In particular we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or 79
