Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc Report on the financial statements Our audit approach Our opinion Overview In our opinion: Materiality J Sainsbury plcs Group financial statements and Company financial Overall Group materiality: 32 million, which represents five per cent statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the of profit before tax adjusted for one-off items.
stateof the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 14 March 2015 andof the Groups loss and the Groups and Companys cash flows for Audit scope theperiod then ended: We performed an audit of the complete financial information of the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in threeof the Groups reporting units J Sainsbury plc, Sainsburys accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Supermarkets Limited and Sainsburys Bank plc due to their financial adopted by the European Union: significance to the Group or their risk characteristics.
the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in We also performed specific audit procedures on material balances accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied andtransactions within the property companies, joint ventures and inaccordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and insurance company due to the materiality of certain individual the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the balances within these entities to the Group financial statements as requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group awhole.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
These reporting units account for 99 per cent of Group revenue and 98per cent of Group profit before tax adjusted for one-off items.
What we have audited J Sainsbury plcs financial statements comprise: Areas of focus the Group and Company balance sheets as at 14 March 2015: Supplier income: the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income for Impairment of pipeline development sites and trading stores: the period then ended: Impairment of loans and advances to Sainsburys Bank customers: the Group and Company cash flow statements for the period then ended: The IT environment, including IT security: and the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the period Valuation of gross pension assets and liabilities.
then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of The scope of our audit and our areas of focus significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report rather than in the notes We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we statements and are identified as audited.
looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example inrespect of significant accounting estimates that involved making The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
ofthe financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
77 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Supplier income We tested key system controls, including those used to determine the Refer to the Audit Committee section on pages 53 to 56 and note 2, volume of items sold under the terms of a supplier income arrangement.
accounting policies, including judgements and estimates in the financial We determined that the testing of these controls provided us with audit statements.
evidence that supplier income had been recorded appropriately and in the correct period.
Our testing also included checking the computation of The Group earns material supplier income across three main income streams amounts billed to suppliers.
being discounts and supplier incentives linked to individual unit sales, fixed amounts and supplier rebates stated in order of value, highest to lowest.
We understood and tested the interface between the different systems This income is recognised as a reduction to the cost of goods purchased and in place over supplier income to satisfy ourselves as to the accuracy and is billed by the Group to the relevant supplier.
We tested managements reconciliation of the supplier income systems to the income recognised in the general ledger.
Determining whether the Group was entitled to income under these various arrangements, whether amounts had been correctly calculated and whether On a sample basis, we agreed key deal inputs such as promotion date, they were recorded in the correct period was an area of focus for our audit product and income per unit sale or total income due recorded in the due to the quantum of the amounts recorded against cost of sales under the supplier income systems to individual supplier agreements.
We then revarious supplier income arrangements and their significance in relation to the performed managements calculations, using the tested inputs, to confirm result for the period.
It is also an area of heightened focus in light of recent the accuracy of the amounts recognised.
While the recognition of the majority of supplier income We performed procedures to identify any significant transactions recorded as is mechanical and routine in nature, the amount to be recognised in the manual adjustments and obtained evidence to support the recognition and income statement for elements of supplier income requires management to timing of those amounts based on the individual supplier agreements.
In apply judgement based on the contractual terms in place with suppliers and addition, for amounts manually accrued as at the financial year-end which estimates of amounts the Group is entitled to where arrangements span the related to fixed amounts and supplier rebates, we sought to agree a sample financial year-end.
of the income accrued to cash received or reduction in payments made after Discounts and incentives linked to individual unit sales relate to the balance sheet date for settled transactions.
For deals that had not been supplier income earned and therefore accrued each time a unit of a product settled, we traced these transactions through to the balance sheet control is sold.
This income stream involves high volume, lower value arrangements, accounts, sought to understand from management whether there were any calculated through a mechanical process, and therefore management issues with the recoverability of the deal income and assessed the ageing of considers there to be no judgement in determining the amount that the the assets recognised on the balance sheet.
We also performed procedures Group is entitled to.
Notwithstanding this, this income is material and we to satisfy ourselves that amounts were recorded in the correct period, therefore primarily focused on the existence of the supplier deals and the agreeing key deal inputs for a sample of fixed amounts and supplier rebates accuracy of the data used in the calculations of amounts due.
recorded in the final period of the financial year and the first two weeks of the subsequent financial period to individual supplier agreements to evaluate Fixed amounts are agreed with suppliers primarily to support in-store whether income had been recorded in the appropriate period.
activity, including promotions, such as utilising specific space.
These deals vary in length and hence may span a financial year-end.
Given the nature We sought to obtain written confirmations from a sample of suppliers to of these arrangements, income is recorded at the point of billing, which will confirm individual deals recognised in the financial year and accrued on typically be when the deal commences.
A cut-off process is performed by the balance sheet at year-end, reconciling the confirmations received to the management at year-end to ensure any income relating to deals that span Groups financial information.
Where no confirmation was forthcoming, we the balance sheet date is recognised in the correct period.
Our focus was performed additional testing of individual deals by tracing these to cash therefore on whether the fixed deal income recognised existed, whether it settlement.
If the individual deal had not been cash settled we agreed the had been recorded at the correct amount and whether income recognised deal to an individual supplier agreement, traced the accrued income through was recorded in the appropriate period.
to the balance sheet, and assessed the ageing of the assets recognised on the balance sheet.
Supplier rebates are received from suppliers when pre-agreed targets are achieved.
These arrangements are typically negotiated annually.
The We analysed the periodic supplier income recognised and compared this calculation of elements of this income is mechanical in nature as it will amount with the equivalent periods in each of the previous four years to typically involve a percentage discount on all relevant product purchased identify whether there were any unusual trends in the amounts of supplier once predetermined volume targets are reached.
Management judgement is income recognised in each period.
No such items were identified.
We also required when incentive targets span a financial year-end, as management analysed trends in supplier income for certain key suppliers and obtained must estimate and accrue the income earned as at the balance sheet date explanations and supporting documentation to verify significant period-onbased on forecast sales over the term of the incentive arrangement.
Our period or year-on-year movements.
focuswas therefore on whether the supplier rebate income recognised We satisfied ourselves as to the accuracy of managements disclosures existed and whether it had been recorded at the correct amount and in the of their supplier income and the appropriateness of the associated appropriate period.
78 Financial Statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment of pipeline development sites and trading stores We verified the mathematical accuracy of managements impairment models Refer to notes 2, 3, 11 and 12 in the financial statements.
and agreed relevant inputs to the latest Board approved cash flow projections for five years, noting no exceptions.
In addition, we reviewed updated cash The Group recognised an impairment charge of 628 million in the financial flow forecasts, noting no change in our assessment.
year relating to development pipeline sites and unprofitable and marginally profitable trading stores.
The development pipeline sites represented those For those assets valued on the basis of FVLCD, we assessed the which will not be developed due to the sites no longer having the potential to reasonableness of managements key assumptions, including expected future achieve an appropriate return on capital.
rental yields, through applying our knowledge and experience of property valuations and considerations of alternative uses for sites.
This was an area of focus in our audit as the calculation of any impairment requires management to exercise judgement described below in We compared managements assumptions as listed in our area of focus determining the recoverable amount of each asset.
It is also an area of with industry and economic forecasts and agreed them to external third heightened focus in light of current trends in consumer spending patterns in party information where available, concluding that, based on the evidence the retail sector.
obtained, managements assumptions were supportable.
For those assets where recoverable amount has been determined on the basis We discussed with management the viability of key development projects of fair value less costs to dispose FVLCD, most notably the majority of the and confirmed that the Investment Board, Operating Board and plc Board had development pipeline sites, we focused on the significant estimates and each approved managements development plans.
judgements reflected in the Groups assessment of expected sales proceeds We evaluated the historical accuracy of managements estimates of fair value in including estimated costs to complete where applicable, expected future previous impairment assessments by comparing the estimated FVLCD at that rental yields and consideration of alternate use.
time with the realised selling prices subsequently obtained, which indicated For those assets where recoverable amount has been measured on the basis that managements previous valuations were generally reasonably accurate.
of value-in-use, in particular trading stores, we focused on the significant For those assets valued on the basis of value-in-use, we benchmarked key estimates and judgements reflected in the Groups cash flow forecasts market related assumptions in the models, such as future sales growth rates including sales growth rates and expected changes in operating margins, as for the retail sector, against external data.
We independently calculated the well as the rate used to discount future cash flows to their present value.
Groups Weighted Average Cost of Capital, which drives the discount rate, and found managements calculation of the discount rate to be reasonable.
We confirmed the completeness of the related disclosures in note 11 of the financial statements and determined these were adequate.
Impairment of loans and advances to Sainsburys Bank customers We verified the mathematical accuracy of managements impairment models Refer to notes 2 and 17 in the financial statements.
and confirmed that the methodology applied was in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39, Financial Instruments: recognition and measurement.
As at 14 March 2015, the gross value of loans and advances to Sainsburys Bank customers was 3,098 million.
As at the balance sheet date, an We tested the completeness and accuracy of the data from underlying impairment provision of 87 million was recorded against credit cards and systems that were used in the impairment models.
We tested key assumptions used within the models to internal and external Management applies judgement in selecting appropriate assumptions information.
We compared the key assumptions within the models to our in calculating the impairment provisions.
These assumptions include knowledge of assumptions used in the banking sector and also with historical managements expectation of the proportion of customers who will default trends within Sainsburys Bank, concluding that, based on the evidence on their loans and the level of loss that will be incurred by the Group once a obtained, managements conclusions were supportable.
We focused on the measurement of impairment, We assessed the completeness of the Banks modelling approach based on including the assessment of whether historical experience is appropriate our broader industry knowledge of model methodologies.
when assessing the likelihood of incurred losses in the future, particularly Based on the evidence obtained from the work described above, we determined given the gradual improvement in economic conditions.
that the quantum of impairment recognised as at 14 March 2015 was reasonable.
The impairment provision was calculated using statistical modelling for We confirmed the completeness and adequacy of the related disclosures in portfolios of loans and advances.
note 17 of the financial statements, and determined these were adequate.
The IT environment, including IT security We held regular meetings with management throughout the year As with many retailers, the Groups retailing IT systems are complex.
The to understand developments in the IT environment and inform our adequacy and effective operation of controls over these systems, including understanding of changes that had a direct bearing on the Groups controls the adequacy and appropriateness of IT security and system access controls, over financial reporting.
is critical to the integrity of financial reporting within the Group and to We evaluated the IT general control environment and performed IT the accurate presentation of the Groups financial statements.
Our focus application testing, including review of the controls over segregation of was on whether appropriate IT controls were in place to reduce financial duties within the general ledger system to mitigate the risk of unauthorised reporting risk.
In respect of IT security and access we focused on whether any transactions being posted into the general ledger.
enhancements had been made to the control environment to reduce the risk We performed additional substantive testing over areas in which IT general of unauthorised access to the Groups IT network.
control weaknesses were identified in order to mitigate the risks of material In addition, Sainsburys Bank is currently transitioning onto a new banking misstatement, such as performing additional testing over the employee platform.
In the meantime Sainsburys Bank continues to utilise outsourced leaver process and testing a sample of amended purchase orders.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we In assessing the controls at Sainsburys Bank, we considered the control performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial environment in place at the Banks main outsourced service provider to statements as a whole, taking into account the accounting processes and the extent relevant for our audit.
The Bank relies on this provider for key controls and the impact of the outsourcing arrangements on the Banks IT systems and controls.
Our assessment involved obtaining and reading financial reporting.
Our focus was on whether IT controls remained effective the relevant controls report, issued by the external auditors of the provider under the outsourcing arrangement such that there was no heightened risk in accordance with generally accepted assurance standards for such work, of error that would impact the financial statements and our audit thereon.
to gain an understanding of the service providers control environment.
Following this assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements.
79 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of gross pension assets and liabilities We used our actuarial experience to satisfy ourselves that the assumptions See notes 2 and 30 in the financial statements.
used in calculating the pension plan liabilities, including inflation and mortality rate assumptions, were consistent with relevant national and As at 14 March 2015, the Group has a net defined benefit pension obligation industry benchmarks.
We also verified that the discount and inflation rates of 692 million, with gross assets of 7,680 million and gross liabilities of used in the valuation of the pension liabilities were consistent with our 6,988 million.
These gross balances are material in the context of the overall internally developed benchmarks and with other companies reporting as at balance sheet of the Group.
The valuation of the pension liabilities requires judgement in determining For pension plan assets, we obtained third party confirmations of ownership appropriate assumptions.
In particular we focused on inflation levels, and valuations of pension assets.
We also obtained the valuation models discount rates and mortality rates.
Movements in these assumptions can for those assets with unobservable inputs and tested the underlying have a material impact on the determination of the liability.
Management assumptions against our own, internally developed data and satisfied uses external actuaries to assist in determining these assumptions and in ourselves that the valuations were reasonable.
valuing the gross assets and liabilities within the pension plan.
Judgement is also required in the measurement of the fair value of certain pension assets and for this reason we focused on assets that have been valued based on unobservable inputs.
How we tailored the audit scope Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking Weset certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with into account the structure of the Group, the systems, accounting processes qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements The Groups businesses are organised into three operating segments, being asa whole.
retailing, financial services and property investments, as defined in note 4 to the financial statements.
Each of these operating segments include a number Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the of reporting units, which together form the consolidated financial statements, financial statements as a whole as follows: comprising: the Groups retailing and financial services businesses Sainsburys Supermarkets Limited and Sainsburys Bank plc, the Bank, centralised Overall Group 32 million 2014: 40 million.
functions including J Sainsbury plc, property companies and joint ventures.
materiality How we Five per cent of profit before tax adjusted for one-off We determined that we needed to perform an audit of the complete financial determined it items.
information of three reporting units J Sainsbury plc, Sainsburys Supermarkets Limited and Sainsburys Bank plc due to their financial Rationale for We believe that profit before tax, adjusted for onesignificance to the Group financial statements or their risk characteristics.
benchmark off items as defined in note 3 on page 95, is the key applied measure used by the shareholders in assessing the We also performed specific audit procedures on material balances and Groups performance.
Adjusting for one-off items also transactions within the property companies, joint ventures including BL provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for Sainsburys Superstore Limited and the insurance company JS Insurance determining materiality by eliminating the volatility Limited due to the materiality of certain individual balances within these that is inherent in one-off items.
entities to the Group financial statements as a whole.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them The Group engagement team at the head office perform all aspects of the misstatements identified during our audit above 3 million 2014: 3 million audit except for the work on Sainsburys Bank plc, BL Sainsburys Superstore as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted Limited and JS Insurance Limited.
The Group engagement team reviewed the reporting for qualitative reasons.
reporting received from each of these component audit teams, and for the audit of the Bank specifically, met with the Bank audit team to discuss their Going concern findings and directly attended both the Bank audit clearance meeting and the year-end Bank Audit Committee meeting.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 75, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having Taken together, the reporting units and functions where we performed our performed our review.
audit work accounted for 99 per cent of Group revenues and 98 per cent of Group profit before tax and our audit procedures thereon, together with As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is additional procedures performed at the Group level, including audit of the appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis consolidation process and consolidation journals, gave us the evidence that of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
80 Financial Statements Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 76, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions to report arising Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, from this responsibility.
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 55, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the We have no exceptions to report arising work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the received Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinion: opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come we have not received all the information and explanations we require for save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or What an audit of financial statements involves returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in visited by us: or the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the byfraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: accounting records and returns.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors remuneration Directors: and Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the overall presentation of the financial statements.
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors Other Companies Act 2006 reporting judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis Corporate governance statement for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the having performed our review.
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any Our responsibilities and those of the Directors apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out implications for our report.
on page 76, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
London Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards 5 May 2015 Ethical Standards for Auditors.
