INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JIMMYCHOO PLC ONLY OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALIT Y AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE 1.
OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED OF OUR AUDIT Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at We have audited the financial statements of JimmyChoo PLC 1.5m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 85 to 127. before tax normalised to exclude net loss on financial instruments In our opinion: and exceptional items being 29.6m of which it represents 5%.
In 2014 materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the set at 2.0m with reference to a benchmark of Group loss before tax Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December normalised for interest and exceptional costs being 35.7m of which 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: it represents 5.6%.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as We report to the Audit and Risk Committee any corrected or adopted by the European Union: uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.08m, in addition the Parent Company financial statements have been properly to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including qualitative grounds.
FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Of the Groups 28 reporting components, we subjected 14 to audits the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards for Group reporting purposes and two to specified risk-focused audit theGroup financial statements, Article 4 of the IASRegulation.
The latter were not individually financially significant 2.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but did In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the represent larger components of the Asia region.
These Group risk of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our procedures covered 92% of total Group revenue: 97% of total Group auditwas: profits and losses that make up Group profit before taxation: and 93% of total Group assets.
REVENUE RECOGNITION REVENUE 317.9M Refer to page 58 Audit and Risk Committee Report, note1 The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the accounting policy and note 3 operating segments.
significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team THE RISK approved the component materiality of 1.2m, having regard to the Revenue is a key performance measure for the Group and a key mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The driver for gross margin which is a further key indicator of Group Group audit team visited three component locations in the UK and performance.
The Group generates revenue through a high volume the USA to perform the audit work.
The work on all of the remaining ofindividually small transactions recorded in a number of different in scope components was performed by component auditors.
In addition, consideration must be made of anyreturns.
Telephone conference meetings were held with these component auditors.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit Due to its materiality in the context of the financial statements as a team were discussed in more detail and any further work required by whole, revenue is considered to be one of the areas which had the the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
greatest effect on our overall audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning and completing our audit.
OUR OPINION ON OTHER MAT TERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 IS UNMODIFIED OUR RESPONSE In our opinion: Our audit procedures in this area included: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has for each of the different accounting systems, testing the design been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act and operating effectiveness of key controls around the recognition 2006: and of revenue, including those related to the reconciliation of cash the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report receipts to sales records: for the financial year for which the financial statements are for components representing 69% of the total revenue balance prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
forthe year we tested the accuracy of sales and that they were 5.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE DISCLOSURES OF PRINCIPAL recorded in the correct period by matching the sale transaction RISKS through to cash receipt: Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have for components covering a further 23% of the revenue balance, nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: for example those with a different accounting system, we tested the accuracy of sales and that they were recorded in the correct the Directors statement of longer-term viability on page 27 period by selecting samples of reconciliations between sales concerning the principal risks, their management and, based on transactions and cash receipts and agreeing those reconciliations that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups through supporting documentation: continuing in operation over the three years to 2018: or selecting certain manual journals posted to revenue across the the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning accounting systems based on criteria such as value and critically the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
assessing whether these journals were appropriate by agreeing tosupporting documentation: and challenging the adequacy of the Groups provision for returns across all revenue streams in the light of the historical pattern ofcredits given for returns.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 83 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JIMMYCHOO PLC ONLY CONTINUED 6.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF THE MAT TERS ON SCOPE OF REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement Under ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, set out on page 79, the Directors are responsible for the preparation based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise at www.
This report is made solely to misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published we have identified material inconsistencies between the on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or GRAHAM NEALE the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee does not SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR appropriately address matters communicated by us to the for and on behalf of KPMG LLP Auditand Risk Committee.
Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, One Snowhill inour opinion: Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham B4 6GH adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 21 March 2016 received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law arenot made: or we have not received all the information and explanations werequire for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors Statement in relation to going concern set out on page 79 and the longer-term viability statement set out in the Strategic Report on page 27: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report on page 52 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 84
