Independent auditors report to the members of John Wood Group PLC the Group Report on the group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, John Wood Group PLCs Group financial statements the financial statements : X Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: X Have been properly prepared in accordance with international Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and X Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the Accounting Policies Note to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited John Wood Group PLCs financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: X The consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: X The consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: X The consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: X The consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and X The notes to the financial statements, which include a summaiy of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview X Overall group materiality for the financial statements as a whole was $15.6 million, based on the Groups profit before taxation from continuing operations after exceptional items, adding back Materiality the one-off impairment charge for EthosEnergy of $137.2 million.
X Audits of the financial information were carried out for significant locations such as Mustang in North America and PSN in the UK.
In addition we performed audit procedures at a number of the Groups other locations.
In total, work was performed across 21 reporting units.
Audit Scope X We conducted audit work on-site in four countries UK including Guernsey, USA, Norway and Australia.
X Carrying value of investment in EthosEnergy joint venture Area of X Carrying value of goodwill focus X Uncertain tax provisions X Judgemental provisions 48 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report continued Areas on which our audit specifically focused We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain and in the classification of exceptional items.
As in all our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls and risk of fraud in revenue recognition, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below together with an explanation of how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We tested Group managements assessment of the carrying value of Carrying value of investment in EthosEnergy joint venture EthosEnergy at 31 December 2015.
Our testing considered the future cash At 31 December 2015 prior to impairment the carrying value of flow forecasts, the process by which they were produced and the history the investment in the joint venture was $329.4m reflecting the value of forecasting accuracy: we also tested the underlying value in use model.
attributed to it on formation, adjusted for trading results and underlying We engaged PwC valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness of foreign exchange adjustments since that date.
specific inputs into the value in use model specifically the discount rate, long-term growth rate and terminal value.
In 2015, EthosEnergy underperforned compared to expectations.
Additionally, the trading outlook has become more challenging.
We focused on profitability assumptions as these are the key drivers of Group management considered these to be indications that the the cash flows.
Group management applied additional sensitivities to the investment may be impaired, and Group management performed an forecasts prepared by EthosEnergy and we corroborated that approach impairment assessment at 31 December 2015.
This assessment resulted by undertaking our own sensitivity analysis.
We also considered the net in an impairment charge of $137.2m, details of which are set out in note working capital assumptions and EthosEnergys actions to achieve these.
We found no evidence that the assumptions used in the cash flow Group managements assessment of the remaining value in use is forecast were unreasonable.
However, there is ongoing uncertainty around judgemental because it is based on forecast results and uncertain EthosEnergys ability to deliver on the forecast.
As a result, we held outcomes.
extensive discussions with Group management and the Audit Committee Accordingly, this was an area of focus for our audit.
around the adequacy of the detailed disclosures regarding assumptions and sensitivities which have been set out within note 10 of the financial statements.
If EthosEnergy is not able to deliver on these forecasts, further impairment charges may result.
Carrying value of goodwill We tested managements assessment of the carrying value of goodwill at The carrying value of goodwill as at 31 December 2015 was $1,765m.
31 December 2015 as follows: This relates to a number of acquisitions, the most significant of which is X We carried out an exercise to look back at the prior year to assess the the Groups acquisition of PSN in 2011, as well as smaller acquisitions in history of forecasting accuracy, which confirmed our ability to rely on recent years.
The details of goodwill are set out in note 8 of the financial managements forecast.
X We tested the underlying value in use model by assessing the Managements assessment of the value in use of the Groups Cash appropriateness of the inputs and key assumptions in relation to the Generating Units CGUs involves judgements about the future results short term cash flows included in the 2016 and 2017 forecast.
of the business and the discount rates applied to future cash flow X We engaged valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness of the forecasts.
Given the current environment of lower commodity prices we medium and long-term growth rate of 3%, pre-tax discount rates used believed there was an elevated risk of misstatement associated with the which range from 12% to 15% and the terminal value calculation.
X We assessed the appropriateness of cash generating units.
X We reviewed the disclosures on the carrying value of goodwill in the financial statements for sufficiency.
We found sufficient evidence to support the assumptions used in managements assessment of the carrying value of goodwill, and considered the sensitivities disclosed in the financial statements to be appropriate.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 Independent auditors report continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Uncertain tax provisions We reviewed the Groups documentation of uncertain tax exposures and tested the more significant provisions for appropriateness by confirming The Group operates in multiple tax jurisdictions and has a number of ongoing the basis of provision, understanding the movements on the provision discussions and investigations with tax authorities where uncertain tax during the year, reviewing correspondence with relevant tax authorities and positions and treatments may be successfully challenged at a later date.
We also utilised our own tax experts to assess the See note 5 of the financial statements.
There is judgement in assessing the level of provisions required to cover the risk This is an area which requires significant judgement.
However, the evidence of successful challenge over certain of the Groups tax positions.
Provisions are we obtained, including our testing of assumptions, was materially consistent principally held in respect of current tax deductions previously taken, ongoing with the overall level of provisioning in respect of tax.
tax audits and uncertainties on the utilisation of deferred tax assets.
Judgemental provisions We reviewed the Groups schedule of provisions and tested material provisions for accuracy by corroborating this with third party evidence where There are a number of provisions across the Group that require available.
Our work also included meeting with the Groups General Counsel management judgement during the estimation process.
Provisions include to discuss legal cases and obtaining legal letters from external counsel.
those made for earn outs, uninsured legal and warranty claims, doubtful We also tested managements calculations of earn out provisions by agreeing debts and onerous leases.
See note 18 of the financial statements.
the financial targets to due diligence reports relating to the acquisitions and lease obligations by agreeing to lease agreements.
We tested long outstanding accounts receivable aged greater than 90 days by agreeing to subsequent payments where available or supporting documentation.
This is an area which requires management judgement.
However the evidence we obtained from our testing did not identify any material misstatements.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
We developed our audit procedures by firstly confirming the reporting units which were significant for an audit of their complete financial information for Group reporting based on contribution of profit to the Group.
We then looked for reporting units where individual account balances were significant to the Group as a whole or had heightened risks of fraud or error and scoped these in for specified audit procedures for those account balances or areas.
We conducted work at 21 reporting units and used local PwC auditors in Australia, Norway and Guernsey.
Together, the reporting units subject to audit procedures were responsible for 72% of the Groups revenues.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
The group engagement team visited multiple reporting sites in North America, the UK and Norway and performed a desktop review of the audit file for Australia.
Further, specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, goodwill, treasury, acquisitions, impairment analysis, post-retirement benefits and material litigation were performed at the Groups head office.
Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality $15.6 million 2014: $23 million 5% of profit before taxation from continuing operations after exceptional items, adding back the one-off EthosEnergy How we determined it impairment charge of $137.2m.
We applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, in the absence of indicators that an alternative Rationale for benchmark benchmark would be more appropriate.
In the prior year, the benchmark used was profit before taxation from continuing applied operations after all exceptional items.
In 2015, we added back the impact of the EthosEnergy impairment as it is a one-off charge, giving us a more consistent year-on-year basis for our audit.
For each reporting unit subject to an audit of its financial information, we allocate a materiality that is less than our overall group Component materiality materiality.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $0.8m 2014: $1m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
50 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report continued Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 18, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 Opinions In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland Reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: X Information in the Annual Report is: - Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements:or We have no exceptions - Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in to report the course of performing our audit: or - Otherwise misleading.
X The statement given by the directors on page 22, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and We have no exceptions provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is to report.
materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
X The section of the Annual Report, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no exceptions Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: X The directors confirmation on page 18 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, We have nothing material to that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that add or to draw attention to.
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material to X The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
add or to draw attention to.
X The directors explanation on page 19 of the Annual Report, in accordance with Provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider We have nothing material to that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group add or to draw attention to.
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51 Independent auditors report continued Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all theinformation and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from thisresponsibility.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures ofdirectors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having performed ourreview.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 22, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fairview.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: X Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: X The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and X The overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of John Wood Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2015 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Lindsay Gardiner Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Aberdeen 22 February 2016 a The maintenance and integrity of the John Wood Group PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
52 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
