Independent auditors report to the members of John Wood Group PLC Report on the parent company financial statements Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors Our opinion As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the In our opinion, John Wood Group PLCs parent company financial directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements statements the financial statements : and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
X give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its cash flows for the year then ended: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International X have been properly prepared in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices European Union: and Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
X have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with What we have audited Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom X the balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where X the statement of cash flows for the year then ended: expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
X the statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: X the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of What an audit of financial statements involves significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: identified as audited.
X whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adequately disclosed: adopted by the European Union.
X the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have the directors: and made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they have X the overall presentation of the financial statements.
made assumptions and considered future events.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Act 2006 In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the Adequacy of accounting records and information and audited financial statements and to identify any information that is explanations received apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or our opinion: inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
X we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or X adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Other matter company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received We have reported separately on the group financial statements of John from branches not visited by us: or Wood Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2015.
X the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Lindsay Gardiner Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Aberdeen Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 22 February 2016 opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
104 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
