Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of JUST EAT plc We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in Opinion on financial statements of JUST EAT plc relation to: In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the the Directors confirmation on page 28 that they have state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the facing the Group, including those that would threaten its year then ended: business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Group financial statements have been properly the disclosures on pages 28-29 that describe those risks prepared in accordance with International Financial and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the Directors statement in note 2 to the financial EuropeanUnion: statements about whether they considered it appropriate the parent Company financial statements have been to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted preparing them and their identification of any material bythe European Union and as applied in accordance uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act the Directors explanation on page 27 as to how they 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what Article 4 of the IASRegulation.
period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to The financial statements comprise the Consolidated whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Other Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company liabilities as they fall due over the period of their Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow assessment, including any related disclosures drawing Statements, the Consolidated and Company Statement of attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 47.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern The financial reporting framework that has been applied basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material inthe preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or bythe European Union and, as regards the parent Company conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee financial statements, as applied in accordance with the as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Independence Going concern and the Directors assessment of the We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting principal risks that would threaten the solvency or Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm liquidity of the Group that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2 prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
to the financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report on page 27.
indd 66 06 03 2016 20:45 Financial Statements Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, theallocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Business combinations We have performed the following procedures to address this key As noted in the Report to the Audit Committee on page 45, audit risk: therehave been several acquisitions, changes in ownership Obtained and reviewed the share purchase agreements, due andadisposal of Group entities during the year.
diligence reports and associated contractual agreements for the As detailed in notes 14 and 15, 415.3 million of goodwill current year business combinations and understood the terms and 65.9 million of intangible assets has been recognised in and conditions of each transaction to assess compliance with connection with the acquisitions.
Of this, the acquisitions of IFRS 3 Business Combinations: Menulog Group Limited based in Australia and New Zealand Tested the initial consideration, either through cash or shares, and SinDelantal in Mexico represented 390.2 million and tothe signed purchase agreement and to bank statements and 15.0million of the increase in goodwill, and 60.9million assessed the appropriateness of the fair value of the total and2.8 million of the increase in intangible assets consideration detemined by management: respectively.
TheGroup also entered into an option agreement Assessed the valuation models prepared by management to and subsequently a forward contract to hedge the foreign value the businesses and the intangible assets identified in the exchangerisk, in respect of the Menulog acquisition.
acquired businesses for both Australia and Mexico and engaged The accounting for these transactions is complex due to the our internal valuation specialists to challenge the assumptions judgements taken in the application of accounting standards, and methodology used by management: for example the valuation of the businesses, the recognition and Examined and assessed the inputs within the valuation models, valuation of consideration, the identification and valuation of including the future growth patterns to the historical trends intangible assets and the accounting for the financial instruments.
achieved in more developed markets: and Due to the size and complexity of these acquisitions, our risk Obtained the financial instrument contracts associated with the regarding acquisitions has been focused on these transactions.
Menulog acquisition, and engaged our financial instrument The associated judgements and estimates are described further specialists to perform an independent calculation of hedge innote 31 to the financial statements and in the Report of the effectiveness and assess the accounting treatment for the cash Audit Committee on page 45. flow hedge.
We also reviewed the disclosures presented in note 31 to the financial statements to confirm compliance with the provisions within IFRS 3.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in respect In order to address this key audit risk we audited the assumptions ofgrowth markets used in the impairment model for goodwill and intangible assets.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group recognised goodwill of As part of our work, we: 457.1million 2014: 51.2 million and intangible assets of Considered the projected future cash flows, understood 72.6million 2014: 12.7 million.
variances between the forecast and actual results for the year The Group is highly acquisitive and the current year acquisitions ended 31 December 2015 and compared the forecast growth have resulted in an increase of 415.3 million in the goodwill trends to historic trends achieved in more developed markets, balance and 65.9 million in intangible assets, primarily due to that have already reached maturity: theacquisitions in Australia and Mexico as detailed above.
Compared the long-term growth rates for each cash generating unit to external market data: In addition, goodwill of 48.5 million and intangible assets of 7.3 million is attributable to cash-generating units CGUs Were assisted by our valuation specialists in computing an in the development phase of their lifecycle which have not yet independent assessment of the discount rates used and reached maturity.
As such, there is significant reinvestment of assessing managements methodology used in calculating the generated cash, and consequently, increased risk of impairment.
discount rates applied: Assessed the appropriateness of the sensitivities applied by The key assumptions applied by the Directors in the impairment management to the impairment testing model including reviews are: considering whether the scenarios represented reasonably Country specific discount rates: possible changes in key assumptions.
Performed further Future revenue growth: and sensitivities based on recent trading activity and our understanding of the future prospects to identify whether these Expected marketing and staff costs.
scenarios could give rise to further impairment: and As described in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 45, Checked the arithmetic accuracy of the impairment model and notes 14 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements, andthe amortisation charge in the year on the intangible determining whether the carrying value of goodwill and assetsand assessed the appropriateness of the useful economic intangible assets is recoverable requires management to make life applied to those assets.
significant estimates regarding the future cash flows, discount rates and long-term growth rates based on managements view We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosure in of future business prospects.
Due to the relative sensitivity of respect of its goodwill impairment testing and whether the certain inputs to the impairment testing process, in particular disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment the future cash flows of the CGUs noted above, the valuation assessment to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions ofgoodwill and intangible assets is considered a key audit risk.
properly reflected the risks inherent in such assumptions.
indd 67 06 03 2016 20:45 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Last year our report included one other risk which is not An overview of the scope of our audit included in our report this year: share based payments.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding In the current year, whilst we still consider this to be a of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide significant risk, we no longer consider it a risk that has controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement the greatest effect on the audit strategy, the allocation of atthe Group level.
resources and directing the efforts of the engagement risk The most significant component of the Group is the UK as the complexity largely arose in the period immediately operation, which accounts for 68% of revenues, 290% of post IPO.
Accordingly, we have not included this risk in profit before tax and -1% of net assets.
The Group audit thetable of risks on the previous page.
team performs the audit of the UK business without the The description of risks should be read in conjunction with involvement of a component team.
Full scope audits were the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee performed for both the Danish and French operations for discussed on page 45. the year ended 31 December 2015 by component teams.
In addition, Australia, Canada and Spain were subject These matters were addressed in the context of our audit to a limited scope audit of specific account transactions of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our and account balances.
They were selected to provide an opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the on these matters.
These locations represent the principal business units and account for 226.5 million out Our application of materiality of 247.6 million of the Groups revenues, 620.3 million out We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement of 625.9 million of the Groups net assets and 39.4 million in the financial statements that makes it probable that the out of 34.6 million of the Groups profit before tax.
economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation inplanning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm the results of our work.
ourconclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial We determined materiality for the Group to be 2.0 million information of the remaining components not subject 2014: 1.0 million, which is approximately 5% 2014: 5% of toaudit or audit of specified account balances.
adjusted pre-tax profit, 6% of profit before tax and less than 1% of equity.
Pre-tax profit has been adjusted by one-off acquisition costs on the Australia acquisition of 3.6 million, Profit Net Revenues before tax assets the net loss of 3.9 million on a foreign exchange hedges m m m primarily taken out to hedge the sterling amount of the Full audit 198.8 41.0 618.0 Menulog Group acquisition consideration, amendments Limited scope audit 27.7 1.6 2.3 made to the minority buy-out for two businesses of Analytical procedures 21.1 4.6 5.5 0.2million and gains on the India disposal of 3.0 million.
These items have been adjusted to exclude the effect of non-recurring costs and gains.
The approach is considered Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality consistent with the prior year whereby the pre-tax profit applicable to each individual entity which were lower was adjusted for IPO costs and the gains on business than Group materiality and ranged from 1.0 million combinations.
The materiality level reflects the increase to1.6million 2014: 0.4 million to 0.9 million.
inthe size and scale of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 40,000 2014: 20,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing theoverall presentation of the financial statements.
indd 68 06 03 2016 20:45 Financial Statements A senior member of the Group audit team has visited all Directors remuneration entities where a full audit is performed for the purposes Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to of the Group audit.
Going forward, we will follow a report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors programme of planned visits that has been designed remuneration have not been made or the part of the so thata senior member of the Group audit team visits Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in each ofthe significant locations where the Group scope agreement with the accounting records and returns.
was focused at least once every two years, and the most Wehave nothing to report arising from these matters.
significant of them at least once a year.
In years when we Corporate Governance Statement do not visit a significant component we will include the Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to risk assessment, attend the close meetings remotely, and theCompanys compliance with certain provisions of the review documentation of the findings from their work.
We have nothing to Opinion on other matters prescribed by the reportarising from our review.
Companies Act 2006 Our duty to read other information in the In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course AnnualReport of the audit: Under International Standards on Auditing UK and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, audited has been properly prepared in accordance with information in the Annual Report is: the Companies Act 2006: materially inconsistent with the information in the the information given in the Strategic Report and the audited financial statements: or Directors Report for the financial year for which the apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially financial statements are prepared is consistent with the inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired financial statements: and in the course of performing our audit: or the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been otherwise misleading.
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the acquired during the audit and the Directors statement Company and its environment obtained in the course of the that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in and understandable and whether the Annual Report the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated Matters on which we are required to report to the Audit Committee which we consider should have byexception been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement atthe Group level.
Adequacy of explanations received and accountingrecords Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report toyou if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
indd 69 06 03 2016 20:45 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Scope of the audit of the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to of the financial statements and for being satisfied that give reasonable assurance that the financial statements they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to are free from material misstatement, whether caused by audit and express an opinion on the financial statements fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether in accordance with applicable law and International the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply and the parent Companys circumstances and have with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made thatour quality control procedures are effective, understood by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial our dedicated professional standards review team and and non-financial information in the Annual Report independent partner reviews.
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that This report is made solely to the Companys members, is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of so that we might state to the Companys members those any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies matters we are required to state to them in an auditors weconsider the implications for our report.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys Anna Marks FCA Senior statutory auditor members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP orforthe opinions we have formed.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom 29 February 2016 70 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs066-070.
