Independent Auditors report To the members of Keller Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Carrying value of goodwill 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Refer to page 50 Audit Committee report, page 79 accounting policy and We have audited the financial statements of Keller Group plc for the year pages 86 and 87 financial statements disclosures.
ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 72 to 105.
In our opinion: The risk: There is a risk of impairment of the Groups significant goodwill the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups balances due to prolonged downturn or structural change in the relevant and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the construction market.
In particular there is increased risk on the balance Groups profit for the year then ended: of57.3m related to Keller Canada where the oil sands business is the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance  a downturn in investment.
A partial impairment with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the onthis goodwill balance has been recognised during the year.
The Group European Union: estimates recoverable amount based on value-in-use which includes the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in significant estimation and judgement in the selection of key inputs for the accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced future cash flows, specifically forecast revenue and operating margin Disclosure Framework: and alongwith discount rates.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Our response: Our audit procedures included assessing the reasonableness requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group of the Groups assumptions by reference to past performance, externally financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
derived data, forecasts for economic factors, and current order book.
Ourvaluation specialists assisted in evaluating the assumptions and 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement methodologies underlying the discount rates adopted by the Group.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of Weconsidered the sensitivity of the level of headroom available in the material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: calculations to reasonably possible changes in assumptions to identify areas to focus our testing on.
We assessed whether the Groups disclosures about Accounting for construction contracts the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in Refer to page 50 Audit Committee report, page 79 accounting policy and key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
pages 83 and 89 financial statements disclosures.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scopeof our audit The risk: Contract accounting is considered to be an ongoing significant The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at auditrisk as it requires a high degree of estimation and judgement of 4.5m 2014: 3.9m determined with reference to a benchmark of Group matters such as: the percentage of work completed at the balance sheet profit before taxation, normalised to exclude this years exceptional items as date on longer term contracts: the costs of the work required to complete disclosed on the face of the income statement, of 95.7m 2014: 85.1m, of the contract: and the outcome of claims and variations raised against which it represents 4.7% 2014: 4.6%.
customers and claims raised against the Group by customers or third parties, including the provision for the final outcome of a significant historic We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified claim, which was recognised as an exceptional item in 2014.
Error in any misstatements exceeding 0.2m 2014: 0.2m, in addition to other ofthese judgements could result in a material variance in the amount of identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
profit or loss recognised to date and therefore also in the current period.
Our response: Our audit procedures included testing controls over Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by component contract-related expenditure and assessing the accounting judgments auditors at the key reporting components, including North America, EMEA, applied to a selection of contracts with the greatest impact on the Groups Asia and Australia.
financial results, including those considered to be high risk due to such factors as known issues on the contract or the nature of work being The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following undertaken.
Foraselection of those contracts in progress at the balance percentages of the Groups results: sheet date, we challenged the Groups assumptions on costs to complete thecontract through agreeing cost estimates to internal forecasts and to Group revenue 88% sub-contracts and assessing the reliability of the Groups forecast costs to Group profit and loss before tax 95% complete by considering historical accuracy on completed contracts.
For Group profit and loss before exceptional items and taxation 94% contracts completed by the year end, we assessed subsequent settlement Group total assets 80% ofrevenue recognised.
In respect of claims and variations raised against customers, we checked that these were recognised only once agreed The remaining 12% of total Group revenue, 5% of Group profit and loss withthe customer.
In respect of those claims raised against the Group by before taxand 20% of total Group assets is represented by reporting customers or third parties, on a selection of contracts we: challenged the components, none of which individually represented more than 5% of any progress on the claims and corroborated explanations provided: considered of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax or total Group assets.
prior experience on settlement of claims: and inspected correspondence For these remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated withthe counterparty and with the Groups legal advisers or insurers.
Group levelto re-examine our assessment that there were no significant Weconsidered the adequacy of contract-related disclosure.
In relation risks ofmaterial misstatement within these.
tothe provision held for the significant historic claim we have held discussions with the Groups Directors and challenged their judgements The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant onthe estimated future costs to incur, including assessment of third-party areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the documentation.
We considered the adequacy of disclosures of the matter information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the and of the related uncertainties.
divisional component materialities, which ranged from 0.4m to 3.25m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
Aside from the audit of the parent company that was performed by the Group audit team, the work on all of the components wasperformed by the component auditors.
KELLER GROUP PLC 70 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group audit team visited the two largest divisional component locations Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: in North America and EMEA.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors and with the component auditors in the Directors statements, set out on page 67, in relation to going concern Asia and Australia.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to and longer-term viability: and theGroup audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further the part of the Corporate governance statement on page 43 relating to the workrequired by the Group audit team was then performed by the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK component auditor.
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
is unmodified In our opinion: Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been outon page 69, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and thefinancial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report fairview.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is forthe financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is provided onthe Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
uk consistent with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys membersas a body and is subject to important explanations and 5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principalrisks  responsibilities, published on our website at Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated material to add or draw attention to in relation to: intothisreport as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have the Directors statement of viability on page 67, concerning the principal undertakenand the basis of our opinions.
risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 31 December 2018: or William Meredith Senior Statutory Auditor the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor the going concern basis of accounting.
Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square 6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are London E14 5GL required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based 29 February 2016 onthe knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Corporate governance report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in ouropinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, orreturns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require forour audit.
KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 71
