Independent auditors report to the members of Kier Group plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We focused our work on those contracts with the greatest Accounting for long-term contracts including profit estimation uncertainty over the final contract values and therefore recognition, work in progress and provisioning profit outcome.
These in particular included the forecast positions Refer to page 81 Risk Management and Audit Committee Report on major infrastructure projects such as Crossrail in the UK and and page 124 significant accounting policies.
The Group has significant long-term contracts in both the We challenged the judgements applied in managements forecasts, Construction and Services divisions.
The recognition of profit on in particular the key assumptions, which included the expected construction and long-term services contracts in accordance with recovery of variations, claims and compensation events included in IAS11 is based on the stage of completion of contract activity.
the forecast, and the historical financial performance and forecast Thisis assessed by reference to the proportion of contract costs out-turn against budget of other contracts of a similar nature and incurred for the work performed at the balance sheet date relative size and industry knowledge.
to the estimated total costs of the contract at completion.
We inspected correspondence and meeting minutes with Profit on contracts is a significant risk for our audit because of the customers concerning variations, claims and compensation events, judgement involved in preparing suitable estimates of the forecast and obtained third-party assessments of these from legal or costs and revenue on contracts.
An error in the contract forecast technical experts contracted by the Group, if applicable, to assess could result in a material variance in the amount of profit or loss whether this information was consistent with the estimates made.
recognised to date and therefore also in the current period.
We inspected selected signed contracts for key clauses to identify These judgements include the expected recovery of costs arising relevant contractual mechanisms such as the sharing of cost from the following: variations to the contract requested by the overruns or efficiencies with the customer, contractual damages customer, compensation events, and claims made against the and success fees and assess whether these key clauses have contractor for delays or other additional costs for which the been appropriately reflected in the amounts included in the forecasts.
The inclusion of these amounts in the contract forecast where they are not recoverable could result in a material We inspected correspondence with insurers relating to recognised error in the level of profit or loss recognised by the Group.
insurance claims as well as assessments of these undertaken by theinsurers and Groups legal experts where applicable to assess whether this information supported the position taken on the contract.
We did not identify any issues where the judgements made were materially inappropriate.
We considered the appropriateness of the adjustments made Accounting for adjustments to underlying profit tostatutory profit before tax to derive underlying performance.
Refer to page 81 Risk Management and Audit Committee Report, Inorder to do this we considered: page 124 significant accounting policies and page 131 notes.
The Groups accounting policy on exceptional and nonIn order to give a better understanding of the underlying underlying items: performance of the business, management has presented a view The application of IFRS, in particular IAS1: and of the underlying results of the Group, with separate disclosure of Recent pronouncements by the Financial Reporting Council on non-underlying items consisting of the following: this matter, particularly the Practice Note issued in December 2013.
8.4m of restructuring charges relating to a significant internal We challenged management on the appropriateness of the reorganisation and post-acquisition integration costs: classification of each item, being mindful that classification 13.5m of acquisition costs relating to Mouchel: shouldbe balanced between gains and losses, the basis for the 6.3m in respect of the closure of the Kier Group Pension Scheme: classification clearly disclosed and applied consistently from one 3.4m relating to the disposal of Fleet & Passenger Services: year to the next.
14.8m of intangible amortisation and discount unwind on acquired businesses: and Our work highlighted certain items that management had classified 22.9m in respect of the write-down of the UK mining business as non-underlying which we considered to be more judgemental held for sale, presented in discontinued operations.
These included the restructuring charges of 8.4m.
Having assessed the nature of the individual components of the The determination of which items are classified as non-underlying restructuring charges, we were satisfied with their presentation is subject to judgement and therefore users of the accounts asnon-underlying.
couldbe misled if amounts are not classified appropriately orpresented consistently.
We assessed the nature of certain material non-recurring gains during the year impacting underlying profit before tax and challenged We also considered the risk of one-off gains during the year not management as to whether these should be identified within being properly identified and therefore presented inappropriately non-underlying items.
The key judgement in this area surrounds the within underlying profit.
recognition of profit on disposal of certain property development transactions and joint ventures.
We have accepted managements viewpoint that these are normal property transactions consistent with underlying activity of a property development business.
Having considered the nature and quantum of these items, overall we were satisfied that the presentation of non-underlying and exceptional items in the financial statements for the year ended 30June 2015 is materially appropriate.
114 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus As part of our audit procedures, we corroborated the justification Assessment of carrying value of goodwill of the CGUs defined by management, particularly Services, by Refer to page 81 Risk Management and Audit Committee Report, reviewing the financial information that management uses to page 124 significant accounting policies and page 141 notes.
measure the performance of that business.
We also tested the As detailed in note 12 of the financial statements, the Groups principles and integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow model keycash-generating units CGUs are Construction, Services, that supports the value in use of the CGUs in order to satisfy Residential and Property.
The majority of the Groups goodwill is ourselves that the methodology applied in the annual impairment inrelation to the acquisition of Mouchel 301.3m in June 2015 assessments was in line with the requirements of IAS36, and that and May Gurney 194.7m in August 2013.
The majority 97% of the assumptions underpinning the model were appropriate.
goodwill recognised from the acquisition of May Gurney is allocated More specifically, we challenged: to the Services CGU with the remainder 3% allocated to the Construction CGU.
We considered the carrying value of goodwill We agreed key inputs such as contract margin and profitability recognised in respect of Mouchel as part of our work on the to underlying agreements, our knowledge of the Group and acquisition, although due to the timing of the transaction, this industry and historical outcomes.
wasnot considered a risk of impairment.
We assessed the other key assumptions management applied in these models discount rate, growth rate and inflation, Management tests goodwill for impairment annually, with reference remaining sceptical of explanations and obtaining supporting to value in use which is measured by the present value of the cash evidence for key assertions, including comparing to available flow forecasts expected to be derived by the respective CGUs.
The services industry continues to experience challenging margins We also reviewed managements sensitivity analysis and due to increased costs and more competitive pricing in the market.
considered further realistic sensitivity to all key assumptions Therefore there is a risk that sufficient cash flows will not be and underlying cash flows.
generated within the Services CGU to support the carrying amount We did not identify any issues with managements key assumptions of goodwill.
Due to its size, we did not consider the Construction, based on our review of supporting evidence, managements and Property or Residential CGUs to be areas of significant focus.
our own sensitivity analyses performed.
There was significant headroom calculated by management over the carrying amount of the Services CGU, and therefore we were satisfied that the goodwill is not impaired.
We also tested whether the disclosures were in line with applicable accounting standards and no issues were identified.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured across four divisions, being Property, Residential, Construction and Services including Mouchel.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units that make up the four divisions, together with its central services function.
Due to the timing of the acquisition, Mouchel did not significantly impact the Groups underlying profit before tax.
We therefore focused our audit procedures on the balance sheet, which was largely addressed through our work on the accounting for the acquisition.
As the majority of the Groups revenues, trading profits and operating assets are in companies incorporated in the UK, we are satisfied that we obtain appropriate audit coverage over the Groups Income statement, Balance sheet and Cash flow statement through our statutory audit work on the UK companies, which is performed at the same time as the audit of the Group.
The divisions where we performed our audit work accounted for 95% of the Groups revenues.
In addition, we performed specified audit procedures in the Construction International businesses in Hong Kong, Dubai and Jamaica where our work was focused on particular material contracts where we determined there to be heightened risk of material misstatement.
115 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Independent auditors report to the members of Kier Group plc continued Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 4.3m Overall Group materiality 5% of consolidated profit before tax excluding non-underlying items, as defined by management How we determined it in Note 1 to the financial statements.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality by applying a benchmark of 5% Rationale for of consolidated profit before tax excluding non-underlying items.
We believe that underlying profit benchmarkapplied before tax is the most appropriate measure as it eliminates any disproportionate effect of exceptional charges and provides a consistent year-on-year basis for our work.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.2m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 59, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement as set out on page 63 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge oftheGroup and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors on page 72, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the annual report taken as a whole arising from this responsibility.
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and parent companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the annual report on page 76, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters arising from this responsibility.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
116 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors remuneration directors judgements against available evidence, forming our Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion ownjudgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to financialstatements.
beaudited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to Other Companies Act 2006 reporting provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration substantive procedures or a combination of both.
specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the Corporate governance statement audited financial statements and to identify any information that is Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the prepared by the parent company.
We have no exceptions to report audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements arising from this responsibility.
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements andthe audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors Jonathan Hook Senior Statutory Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement for and on behalf of  LLP set out on page 111, the directors are responsible for the preparation Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give atrue and fair view.
1 Embankment Place London Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the WC2N 6RH financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the 16 September 2015 Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report isshown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and The overall presentation of the financial statements.
117 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Consolidated income statement For the year ended 30 June 2015 2 2015 2014 NonNonunderlying underlying Underlying items Underlying items 1 1 items note 4 Total items note 4 Total Notes m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue Group and share of joint ventures 2 3,351.2 3,351.2 2,937.8 2,937.8 Less share of joint ventures 2 75.3 75.3 30.9 30.9 Group revenue 3,275.9 3,275.9 2,906.9 2,906.9 Cost of sales 2,993.0 2,993.0 2,653.0 3.5 2,656.5 Gross profit loss 282.9 282.9 253.9 3.5 250.4 Administrative expenses 201.9 42.8 244.7 174.3 49.5 223.8 Share of post-tax results of jointventures 14 7.9 7.9 1.6 1.6 Profit on disposal of joint ventures 30e 14.8 14.8 6.1 6.1 Profit loss from operations 2 103.7 42.8 60.9 87.3 53.0 34.3 Finance income 5 1.7 1.7 2.2 2.2 Finance costs 5 19.5 3.6 23.1 15.8 5.3 21.1 Profit loss before tax 2 85.9 46.4 39.5 73.7 58.3 15.4 Taxation 9a 16.9 6.9 10.0 13.5 9.8 3.7 Profit loss for the year from continuing operations 69.0 39.5 29.5 60.2 48.5 11.7 Discontinued operations Loss for the year from discontinued operations attributable to equity holders of the parent company 19 2.2 21.8 24.0 1.0 1.0 Profit loss for the year 66.8 61.3 5.5 59.2 48.5 10.7 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 65.7 61.3 4.4 58.5 48.5 10.0 Non-controlling interests 1.1 1.1 0.7 0.7 66.8 61.3 5.5 59.2 48.5 10.7 Basic earnings per share 3 3 3 From continuing operations 11 96.0p 55.8 p 40.2p 87.5p 71.3 p 16.2p 3 3 From discontinued operations 11 3.1 p 30.8 p 33.9 p 1.5 p 1.5 p Diluted earnings per share 3 3 3 From continuing operations 11 95.6p 55.6 p 40.0p 86.9p 70.8 p 16.1p 3 3 From discontinued operations 11 3.1 p 30.8 p 33.9 p 1.5 p 1.5 p 1 Stated before non-underlying items see note 4.
2 Represented to classify the Groups UK mining activities as discontinued see note 19.
3 Restated to reflect the impact of the bonus element of the rights issue associated with the Mouchel transaction see note 24.
118 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 30 June 2015 2015 2014 Notes m m Profit for the year 5.5 10.7 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement Share of joint venture fair value movements on cash flow hedging instruments 14 0.7 15.1 Deferred tax on share of joint venture fair value movements on cash flow hedginginstruments 9c 0.2 3.6 Fair value movements on cash flow hedging instruments 0.2 1.7 Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedging instruments 9c 0.3 Foreign exchange losses on long-term funding of foreign operations 0.9 Foreign exchange translation differences 0.2 4.0 Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement 1.4 6.1 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement Re-measurement of defined benefit liabilities 8 34.0 18.7 Deferred tax on actuarial losses on defined benefit liabilities 9c 6.8 4.9 Deferred tax on provisions 9c 1.9 Total items that will not be reclassified to the income statement 27.2 25.5 Other comprehensive loss for the year 25.8 19.4 Total comprehensive loss for the year 20.3 8.7 Attributable to: Equity holders of parent 21.4 9.4 Non-controlling interests continuing operations 1.1 0.7 20.3 8.7 Total comprehensive income attributable to equity shareholders arises from: Continuing operations 2.6 8.4 Discontinued operations 24.0 1.0 21.4 9.4 119 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168
