Independent Auditors Report to the members of Kingsher plc Opinion on financial statements of Kingfisher plc is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the In our opinion: preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is x the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
31 January 2015 and of the Groups profit for the 52 weeks then ended: Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors x the Group financial statements have been properly prepared statement on page 79 that the Group is a going concern.
We in accordance with International Financial Reporting confirm that: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: x we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern x the Parent Company financial statements have been properly basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally statements is appropriate: and Accepted Accounting Practice: and x we have not identified any material uncertainties that may x the financial statements have been prepared in accordance cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, going concern.
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups The financial statements comprise the consolidated income ability to continue as a going concern.
statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Our assessment of risks of material misstatement consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets, the The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 38 those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the for the Group and 1 to 17 for the Parent Company financial allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been engagement team and are consistent with the risks identified in applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements the previous year: Subject Nature of risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Inventories As at 31 January 2015 the value of inventory held by We focused on the valuation of year end inventory, the Group was 2,021 million as disclosed in note 17 including challenging judgements taken regarding to the financial statements.
obsolescence and net realisable value provisions.
Assessing net realisable value of inventory is an area Inventory provisioning has been assessed using of significant judgement.
In particular with regards historic stock performance and compared to the to the estimation of provisions for slow-moving and Group provision recognised.
Our procedures included obsolete inventory.
assessing the adequacy of, and movements in, inventory provisions held by recalculating a sample The Groups Principal accounting policy on inventory of items included within the provision to determine is on page 93 and the critical accounting estimates whether there was an appropriate basis of valuation.
and judgements on inventory are on page 96.
Supplier rebates The Group receives significant amounts of supplier We obtained and reviewed a sample of contracts with incentives, discounts and rebates, and recognises suppliers to assess the conditions required for rebate these as a deduction in cost of sales.
income to be recognised and verified whether or not these had been met.
These largely comprise of volume-based rebates based on percentage levels agreed for the calendar We tested the accuracy of the amounts recognised by year, but also include arrangements with a greater agreeing a sample to individual supplier agreements.
degree of judgement such as advertising and For volume-based agreements, we recalculated the marketing support.
rebates due based on shipments in the year and contractual terms.
For other rebates, we also focussed Assessing the timing of recognition of the reduction on the timing of recognition of the rebate income in cost of sales earned from suppliers, including based on the contractual performance obligations.
adherence to contractual terms, is an area of complexity requiring both a detailed understanding We circularised a sample of suppliers to further of the contractual arrangements themselves as well corroborate whether the arrangements recorded as complete and accurate source data to apply the were accurate and complete and, where outstanding arrangements to.
balances were significant at the year end, to confirm the amounts owed.
Our audit also assessed the The Groups Principal accounting policy on rebates recoverability of such amounts owed.
is on page 92 and the critical accounting estimates and judgements on rebates are on page 96.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 80 Governance Subject Nature of risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Property As at 31 January 2015 the value of property, For leasehold property, we focused our work on the plant and equipment held by the Group was identification of complex or unusual lease contracts 3,203 million as disclosed in note 14 to the to assess whether they were appropriately accounted financial statements.
We also performed procedures to identify leases which could be As a result of the diverse property portfolio across considered onerous - for example, we reviewed the the Group, there are several technically complex or properties currently under lease, and identified those judgemental aspects of property accounting and which may be vacant or underutilised, or where accounting for leases across the Group, including: properties are sublet whether the estimated rental x classification of leases under IAS 17: Leases: income leads to an onerous contract.
x other property related provisions, including onerous For freehold properties and store assets with leases: indicators of impairment, we challenged the x the assessment of carrying values of freehold stores impairment models and calculations by: and store assets for potential impairment: and x checking the mechanical accuracy of the x accounting for store closure costs.
impairment models: The key assumptions applied by management in the x assessing the discount rates applied to the impairment reviews are: impairment reviews for each country and comparing x country-specific discount rates: the rates to our internal benchmark data: x store costs, including rent, staff payroll costs and x comparing forecast growth rates to economic data: general operating costs: and x considering the historical budgeting accuracy at a x forecast sales growth and margins.
store level: and The Groups Principal accounting policy on property, x challenging forecast sales growth and margins.
plant and equipment is on page 93 and the critical We challenged the assumptions used by accounting estimates and judgements on impairment management in estimating store closure costs and are on page 96. the timing of recognition of associated provisions.
Goodwill and As at 31 January 2015 the value of goodwill held We reviewed the assumptions used in the impairment intangible by the Group was 2,414 million as disclosed in note model for goodwill and intangible assets, including assets 12 to the financial statements.
comparison of the input assumptions to externally and internally derived data, and challenged the key inputs Determining the appropriate carrying value of used.
We made use of our internal specialists when goodwill and intangible assets requires management assessing these inputs.
to make significant estimates including the operating cash flow projections, discount rates and long term We considered the sensitivity of the model to growth rates.
changes in key assumptions by performing our own independent calculations.
The goodwill attributable to cash generating units is reviewed for impairment using a value in use model, We also considered the adequacy of the Groups as described in note 12 to the financial statements.
disclosures in respect of impairment testing and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the The Groups Principal accounting policy on Goodwill outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in and intangible assets is on page 92 and the critical key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent accounting estimates and judgements on impairment in the assumptions.
Taxation Due to the estimation uncertainty in respect of We engage tax specialists who have considered all settlements with tax authorities around the world, significant taxation exposures across the Group, assessing the Groups exposure to significant tax including challenging the estimates and judgements risks and the level of provisions recognised is a made by management when calculating the income judgemental area.
tax payable in each territory and the associated provisions held.
The Groups Principal accounting policy on Taxation is on page 94 and the critical accounting estimates In assessing the provisions we have considered the and judgements on Taxation are on page 96. tax environment in the significant territories in which the Group operates, the outcome of past settlements and the status of tax audits.
The tax specialists reviewed correspondence with taxation authorities in significant locations, as well as reviewing the opinions or other support received from external counsel and other advisers where management has relied on them to make assumptions on the level of taxation payable.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 42. www.
com 81 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Kingsher plc continued Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Act 2006 financial statements that makes it probable that the economic In our opinion: decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be x the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the audited has been properly prepared in accordance with scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
the Companies Act 2006: and We determined materiality for the Group to be 34 million x the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors 2013 14: 35 million, which is 5% 2013 14: 5% of profit Report for the financial year for which the financial statements before taxation, before exceptional items, and below 1% are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We use profit before taxation, Matters on which we are required to report by exception before exceptional items, to exclude the effect of volatility from Adequacy of explanations received and accounting our determination.
records We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to them all audit differences in excess of 0.7 million 2013 14: you if, in our opinion: 0.7 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We x we have not received all the information and explanations also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we require for our audit: or we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the x adequate accounting records have not been kept by the financial statements.
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or An overview of the scope of our audit As in the prior year, our Group audit scope focused primarily x the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement on all significant trading entities and the Group head office, with the accounting records and returns.
and included B&Q UK, Castorama France, Brico Dpt France, Castorama Poland, Castorama Russia, B&Q China, Screwfix UK, We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Brico Dpt Spain, Bricostore Romania and the Kota joint Directors remuneration venture.
These locations represent the principal business units Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report and account for 99% 2013 14: 99% of the Groups revenue, if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration 98% 2013 14: 98% of the Groups profit before tax after taking have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration into account the allocation of central sourcing costs, Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting and 98% 2013 14: 97% of the Groups net assets.
We have nothing to report arising from locations in scope were selected to provide an appropriate these matters.
basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at these locations Corporate Governance Statement was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of entity which were lower than Group materiality.
The entities the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys which are out of our scope are primarily individually insignificant compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance cost entities and other smaller operations.
The Group audit team Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits locations Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, considered the most significant each year.
For the remaining we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information locations where Group audit work is performed but no visit is in the annual report is: carried out, the Senior Statutory Auditor has discussed and challenged the key areas of judgement with the lead audit x materially inconsistent with the information in the audited partner of the component in the current year and a senior financial statements: or member of the Group engagement team has visited the location.
We also held regional planning briefings, attended by the x apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in component auditors from each of the eleven locations discussed above, at which we discussed developments in the Group the course of performing our audit: or relevant to our audit, including risk assessment and audit x otherwise misleading.
procedures to respond to the risks identified.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 82 Governance In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Richard Muschamp Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London 30 March 2015 www.
