Financial statements Financial statements Independent auditors' report to the members Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes plc of Ladbrokes plc Report on the financial statements What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report Our opinion and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: In our opinion: the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: Ladbrokes plcs Group financial statements and Company the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: financial statements the financial statements give a true and the consolidated income statement and consolidated fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit and the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then cash flows for the year then ended: ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards then ended: and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the notes to the financial statements, which include a the Company financial statements have been properly summary of significant accounting policies and other prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally explanatory information.
Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial IAS Regulation.
statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: 4.7 million which represents 5% of average profit before tax and exceptional items over the previous three years 2014: 5.7 million.
We conducted full scope audits at five reporting units: UK Retail, UK Digital, Australia and two reporting units included within Corporate costs.
Specific audit procedures on revenue and receivables were performed on the High Rollers reportable segment.
Our audit scope addressed over 80% of the Groups revenue and profit before tax and exceptional items.
Impairment assessments for: Goodwill, and retail licence intangible assets and property, plant and equipment PPE.
Compliance with laws and regulations given the developing nature of the digital gaming sector.
Accounting for the fair value of contingent consideration relating to business combinations made in 2013 Playtech and Betdaq.
Recognition and disclosure of tax losses and the provision for uncertain tax positions.
Nature and presentation of exceptional items.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 72 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment assessments for: Goodwill, retail licence In respect of each impairment assessment, over goodwill and intangible assets and property, plant and equipment retail licence intangible assets and PPE, a key component of our work was to consider the budgets and cash flow forecasts PPE : prepared by management, as outlined below.
This was then Refer to page 46 Audit Committee Report, note 4 Summary of supplemented by specific procedures in relation to the goodwill significant accounting policies, note 14 Impairment testing of assessments and in relation to retail licence intangible assets goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets.
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets requires that Goodwill and other Procedures on budgets and cash flow forecasts: indefinite lived intangible assets are subject to an impairment review at least annually, or more frequently when there is We obtained the annual impairment assessments performed by evidence of a trigger event.
IAS 36 also requires a number of management in respect of goodwill and agreed the cash flow specific disclosures in respect of the impairment assessment.
forecasts therein to the latest Board approved budgets and plans as at 31 December 2015.
We evaluated the assumptions A new Strategy was announced during the first half of the year, in the forecasts and plans and considered the evidence in which included a reassessment of the prospects of the Group, support of them, principally in relation to historical trends and in particular the cash generating units that make up the Retail actual performance in 2015.
This included considering trends in segments, together with a plan for greater investment in the gross win and margins and changes to the cost base such as shorter term.
Machine Game Duty and marketing costs and whether the The impairment reviews performed by management did not expected growth in Digital were appropriately reflected as identify any impairment in respect of goodwill, but did result relevant.
Our work did not highlight any material issues.
in an impairment charge of 53.2m in respect of retail licence We also compared the actual results for each cash generating intangible assets and PPE which was recorded in the first half unit for the year ended 31 December 2015 and the latest Board of the year and reported in the interim results to 30 June 2015. approved budgets and plans to the forecasts prepared with the new Strategy prior to June 2015 and found managements forecasting ability to be reliable for the purposes of the impairment assessments.
Goodwill We also considered the discount rates used in the goodwill and The Group has goodwill of 157.2 million including amounts retail licence intangible assets and PPE impairment assessments relating to the business combinations of Playtech 34.9 million by comparing them to the cost of capital for the Group.
We and Betdaq 31.5 million and Gaming Investments Pty Ltd found these to be consistent and in line with our expectations.
In addition to testing the results of the impairment assessments Whilst the annual impairment review of goodwill performed by performed by management and whether the amount of any management as at 31 December 2015 supported the carrying impairment charge identified was appropriate, we also values above, we focused on this area as the preparation of considered the disclosures given in the Annual Report and these assessments involve a significant degree of judgement found that these satisfied the requirements of IAS 36. and the results are sensitive to changes in the future forecasts For the goodwill impairment reviews showing headroom and not of cash flows and other assumptions such as growth and giving rise to impairments, we also performed sensitivity analysis discount rates.
on the level of cash flows, the discount and growth used in the impairment assessments and concurred with managements conclusion that a material change in these assumptions would be required to trigger an impairment charge.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 73 Financial statements Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes plc continued Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Retail licence intangible assets and PPE We obtained the impairment assessments for retail licence As noted above, an impairment assessment was performed for intangible assets and PPE prepared by management at the the Retail cash generating units in mid 2015 following the interim stage and agreed the forecasts to the latest Board announcement of the new Strategy.
As a result, management approved plans at that time and performed procedures determined that an impairment charge of 53.2 million was consistent with those described above.
required to reduce the value of these assets to their recoverable We evaluated managements determination of individual cash amount.
As at 31 December 2015 the Group has retail licence generating units either at a shop or group of shops level and intangible assets with an indefinite life of 383.4 million following evaluated the evidence of player activity in support of grouping the impairment noted above.
We found the basis for the grouping to be We focused on the UK Retail, Northern Ireland and Republic of supported.
We understood the basis of preparation of shop or Ireland cash generating units in particular as these comprise the group of shops forecasts compared to the overall Retail majority of the Groups Retail licence intangible assets and PPE forecasts and found them to be consistent.
Having considered the above we found the impairment charge Our focus was on the sufficiency of the impairment charge of of 53.2m recorded at the interim stage to be appropriate.
53.2 million recorded in the interim results for the six months We also compared the actual results of UK Retail, Northern ended 30 June 2015 and whether an additional impairment Ireland and Republic of Ireland for the year ended 2015 and the charge was required at the year end.
budgets for 2016 to the previous forecasts and plans under the Strategy announced in mid 2015 and found that they were consistent and that managements forecasts were reliable for the purposes of the impairment assessments and that, accordingly, there was no indication that further impairments were required at 31 December 2015.
We also performed sensitivity analysis on the level of cash flows, the discount and growth used in the impairment assessments and we concurred with managements conclusion that a reasonably possible change in these could trigger impairment charges in the future.
Compliance with laws and regulations given the We evaluated the controls and risk management processes developing nature of the digital gaming sector in operation in respect of compliance with digital licencing regulations responsible gambling and anti-money laundering The international legal and licencing framework for digital gaming obligations covering player registration controls, customer is territory specific.
Regulations are developing and this evolving deposits and withdrawals.
environment makes compliance an increasingly complex area with territory specific regulations, responsible gambling and antiWe assessed how the management monitor legal and regulatory money laundering obligations.
developments and their assessment of the potential impact on the business.
Given the potential for litigation and licence withdrawal, the risk of non-compliance with digital gaming laws and licence regulations We also read the Groups reports on litigation matters provided could give rise to material fines, penalties, legal claims or market by management.
We discussed each of the material cases exclusion.
noted in the reports to determine the Groups assessment of the likelihood and magnitude of any liability that may arise.
Our work included testing to assess the completeness of the matters in the Groups litigation reports in order to assess the appropriateness of the provisions recorded by management.
We also read, where required, external legal or regulatory advice sought by the Group.
Whilst acknowledging that this is a judgemental area, we found that the Group had an appropriate basis of accounting for these matters in the financial statements.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 74 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for the fair value of contingent consideration We obtained the Playtech and Betdaq contingent consideration relating to business combinations made in 2013 Playtech models prepared by management.
We assessed the appropriateness of the models by testing the integrity, comparing and Betdaq the data in the models to the relevant agreements and testing The Group is required to fair value the contingent consideration key inputs to third party sources and publically available associated with the business combinations of Playtech and information where appropriate.
Betdaq made in 2013 at each balance sheet date.
At 31 December 2015 the total contingent consideration was 32.3 The key inputs we focused on were the forecast results for each million with a fair value movement of 0.2 million recognised in business, the probability range associated with future EBITDA the income statement for the year.
forecasts and the discount rate.
This is determined through a cash flow forecast model.
The We compared the forecast results with the latest Board inputs to these models are subject to judgement regarding the approved budgets and considered the results of the testing determination of EBITDA forecasts, discount rates and a multiple performed on the same forecasts for the impairment area of specific to the Ladbrokes share price.
The nature of the valuation of the contingent consideration results in a number of scenarios where a reasonably probable change in the assumptions may materially impact the fair value.
We therefore considered managements proposed disclosures with regard to the impact of changes in assumptions and found them to be reasonable in light of our procedures.
Recognition and disclosure of tax losses and the provision We considered the overall tax figures recorded in the financial statements and the related disclosures in the context of the for uncertain tax positions.
Groups Board approved tax strategy.
Refer to page 46 Audit Committee Report, note 4 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and note 10 With regard to adjustments in respect of prior years we read Income tax expense and understood the Groups correspondence with HMRC and considered the advice received by the Group from its third party The Groups total tax credit of 48.3 million for the year reflects advisers to assess the appropriateness of the related amounts the recognition and use of previously unrecognised tax losses.
and disclosures in the financial statements.
This includes 35.6 million relating to mainly UK adjustments in respect of prior years, a further 18.4 million in respect of tax We assessed whether there was evidence to determine that losses utilised during the year, offset by a number of individually additional deferred tax assets should be recognised or disclosed, immaterial items.
taking into account forecast profits and the Boards approved tax strategy.
The Group also has unresolved tax positions in the UK, the valuation of which is a judgemental area.
We also assessed the key judgements with respect to open positions and settlements and read correspondence with the There is significant judgement applied in determining the Groups taxation authorities.
We obtained evidence to support the deferred tax assets relating to tax losses, in terms of both provisions and consider these to reflect managements best recognition and disclosure.
We found that the overall position adopted in the financial statements and the related disclosures in respect of tax was reasonable.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 75 Financial statements Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes plc continued Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Nature and presentation of exceptional items We assessed the appropriateness and application of the Groups Refer to page 46 Audit Committee Report, note 2 Basis of accounting policy in respect of those items classified as Preparation and note 6 Exceptional items exceptional in nature.
The financial statements include certain items which are We tested the presentation of the exceptional items in the disclosed as exceptional.
The most significant of these financial statements by assessing whether the classification was exceptional charges are: in line with the Groups accounting policy on exceptional items set out in note 2 of the financial statements and whether, in our Impairment loss of 58.3 million: view it was reasonable for these items to be separately disclosed Loss on shop closures of 19.8 million: and as exceptional.
We also tested the nature of costs included to Corporate transaction costs of 17.6 million supporting documentation on a sample basis.
Total exceptional items amounted to 99.0 million.
We found that the Groups accounting policy had been followed, We focused on this area because exceptional items are not and that the costs disclosed were appropriate for inclusion.
defined by IFRSs and it therefore requires judgement regarding their size and nature by management to identify such items.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as exceptional is important to maintain comparability of the results year on year.
How we tailored the audit scope Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed for the financial statements as a whole as follows: enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic Overall Group materiality 4.7 million 2014: 5.7 million.
structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, 5% of average profit before tax How we determined it and the industry in which the Group operates.
and exceptional items over the The Group is structured into five reportable segments being previous three years.
UK Retail, European Retail, Digital, Core Telephone Betting Rationale for We applied this benchmark and High Rollers.
The Consolidated financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units that make up the five reportable benchmark applied because, in our view, profit before tax and exceptional segments and Corporate costs.
items is the metric against We identified five of the Groups reporting units UK Retail, which the performance of the UK Digital, Australia and two reporting units included within Group is most commonly Corporate costs that required an audit of their complete measured and because in our financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
view this is the most relevant In addition we performed specified audit procedures on revenue measure of recurring and receivables in the High Rollers reportable segment due to performance.
For the current risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
year, our materiality calculation All work was undertaken by the Group engagement team with was based on average profit the exception of Australia for which a component PwC audit before tax and exceptional team performed the audit work under the instruction and items over the previous three direction of the Group engagement team.
Our audit scope years as the Groups new addressed over 80% of the Groups revenue and profit before Strategy includes significant tax and exceptional items.
additional marketing spend The Group consolidation and a number of other areas were which impacts profitability in the audited centrally.
This included tax, share-based payments and shorter term.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Materiality them misstatements identified during our audit above 250,000 The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of 2014: 300,000 as well as misstatements below that amount materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 76 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors As noted in the directors statement, the directors have statement, set out on page 73, in relation to going concern.
concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern We have nothing to report having performed our review.
basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial to the directors statement about whether they considered it statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
We have nothing material to add or to draw However, because not all future events or conditions can be attention to.
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 75, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole exceptions to report.
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 46, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to exceptions to report.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 77 Financial statements Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes plc continued Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes plc continued The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 42 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of We have nothing the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, material to add or to including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing managed or mitigated.
material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 30 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of We have nothing the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have material to add or to done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether draw attention to.
they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and Corporate governance statement explanations received Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further you if, in our opinion: provisions of the Code.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Responsibilities for the financial statements and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the the audit Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Our responsibilities and those of the directors received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the Company financial statements and the part of the Responsibilities set out on page 75, the directors are responsible Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in for the preparation of the financial statements and for being agreement with the accounting records and returns.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs Directors remuneration UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Companies Act 2006.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no Other Companies Act 2006 reporting other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent arising from this responsibility.
com Ladbrokes classification: Protected 78 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
com What an audit of financial statements involves provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with This includes an assessment of: the audited financial statements and to identify any information whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Groups and the Companys circumstances and have inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates implications for our report.
made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Stuart Newman Senior Statutory Auditor We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the for and on behalf of  LLP directors judgements against available evidence, forming Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the London financial statements.
22 February 2016 We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83 Ladbrokes classification: Protected Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ladbrokes classification: Protected 79
