LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 76 PART 3: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Single figure Long-term incentive of total Bonus payout vestingrates remuneration as % maximum as % maximum 4 Year Name 000 opportunity opportunity 1 2015 David Lockwood 1,549 27% 50% 2014 David Lockwood 839 50% N A 2013 David Lockwood 831 60% N A 2012 David Lockwood 475 47.5% N A 2 2012 Nigel Keen 450 N A N A 2011 Nigel Keen 218 N A N A 3 2011 Peter Hill 1,354 55% 0 2010 Peter Hill 1,370 55% 0 2009 Peter Hill 926 10% 50% Notes 1.
David Lockwood was appointed as an employee with effect from 2 July 2012 and became Chief Executive on 13August 2012.
Nigel Keen was Executive Chairman between 26 November 2011 and 13 August 2012.
His fee as Chairman was 175,000 p. a. which was increased to 609,000 p. a. for a temporary period while acting as Executive Chairman.
With effect from 13 August 2012 it became 190,000 p. a.
Peter Hill ceased to be a Director with effect from 25 November 2011 but remained an employee on ill-health leaveuntil 10 August 2012.
The figure for 2011 shows what he was paid for the full year.
Includes base salary, taxable benefits, bonus, long-term incentive awards that vested during the year and cash inlieu of pension.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN THE CHIEF EXECUTIVES REMUNERATION Laird is a global company with approximately 60 UK employees and four of its most senior executives are not UK employees.
Due to the multinational nature of the Companys workforce and the fact that 78% of employees are based in Asia, the pay structure operated in respect of the vast majority of its employees is significantly different from that applicable to the Chief Executive, who is UK-based.
Therefore, the Committees view is that the most meaningful comparison of the percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration is considered to be the 11 senior executives below Board level.
Seven of these are US employees, two are British, one is Korean and one is Swedish.
The table below compares the percentage increase in the Chief Executives pay including salary and fees, taxable benefits and annual bonus with that of the chosen comparator group.
Average Employee pay in 1 Chief Executive comparator group Year-on-year change % % % Base salary 14.6 11.87 Taxable benefits 0 0 Bonus -7 23.6 Note 1.
Data for 12 employees was used for 2014 and 11 employees was used for 2015.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 77 RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF THE SPEND ON PAY The table below sets out the overall spend on pay for all employees compared with the returns distributed to shareholders: 2014 2015 Significant distributions m m % change Overall spend on pay for employees including Executive Directors 124.1 134.4 8.3% Distributions to shareholders by way of dividends 33.4 35.1 5.1% The above figures are taken from notes 9 and 14 to the financial statements.
THE COMMITTEE AND ITS ADVISERS AND STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY FOR 2016 The details surrounding the Committee and its Advisers and the Statementof Implementation of Policy for 2016 can be found in Remuneration at a glance on page 60.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT THE 2015 AGM The table below shows the binding vote approving the Directors Remuneration Policy and the advisory vote on the Annual Report on Remuneration at the AGM held on 8 May 2015.
% of Votes for and at votes % of Issued 2015 AGM Resolution discretion cast Votes against % of votes cast Votes withheld share capital Directors Remuneration Policy 196,321,603 99.75 485,976 0.25 5,590,916 2.09 Annual Report on Remuneration 150,878,331 96.43 5,591,083 3.57 45,929,081 17.15 The vote on the 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration is due to take place at the AGM to be held on 29 April 2016.
There will not be a vote on the Directors Remuneration Policy as the Policy has not changed since the AGM in May 2015.
The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Laird PLC.
By Order of the Board JACK BOYER, OBE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 1 MARCH 2016 CULTURE LAIRD PLC LEADERSHIP Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGY OPERATING MODEL 78 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT This section contains additional information ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION which the Directors are required by law The Companys Articles of Association and regulation to include within the may only be amended by special resolution Annual Report.
This section along with at a general meeting of shareholders.
the information from pages 1 to 77 which No amendments to the Articles of are incorporated herein by reference Association of the Company are being constitutes the Directors Report for the proposed at the AGM.
purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
SIGNIFICANT CONTRACTS FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS Laird has arrangements with a number of The Company has chosen, in accordance major customers and suppliers whereby with the Companies Act 2006 section regional or global terms of supply are 414C 11, to include the disclosure agreed.
However, these arrangements do of likely future developments in the not amount to contractual obligations to Strategic Report.
purchase and supply as these are covered by individual purchase orders.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ANDGENDER DIVERSITY SHARE CAPITAL Information on environmental matters and The Company has only one class of disclosures relating to diversity, gender share and the rights attached to each and human rights are contained in the share are identical.
Details of the rights Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in the Companys Articles of RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Association which are available on the Underlying profit before tax was 73.1m Companys website at www.
2014, 63.2m and is analysed in note13 The Company may refuse to register any on page 114.
Loss for the year after transfer of any share which is not a fully taxation was 7.6m 2014, 50.2m profit.
At a general meeting of the The recommended final dividend is 8.6p Company, every member has one vote per ordinary share, to be paid on 6 July on a show of hands and on a poll one 2016 to ordinary shareholders registered vote for each share held.
Details of the as members of the Company at the close voting procedure, including deadlines for of business on 3 June 2016, making a exercising voting rights, are set out in the total dividend for the year of 13 pence Notice of Meeting for the 2016 AGM.
At 31 December 2015 the issued share capital of the Company was 268,088,884 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM ordinary shares of 28.125p each.
Details of The Companys AGM will be held on Friday the share capital and awards outstanding as 29 April 2016.
Details of the resolutions at 31 December 2015 are shown in note 28 to be proposed at the AGM are set out in on pages 133 to 134. the Notice of Meeting which is provided to all shareholders.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 79 At the 2015 AGM, shareholders agreed to Directors Interests and shareoptions In the year to 31 December 2015, no Director the renewal of the Directors power to allot shares, or grant rights for or to convert any had a material interest in any third-party contract of significance with the Company security into shares, in the Company: the disapplication of pre-emption rights and or any of its subsidiaries.
Directors shareholdings at 31 December 2015 are authorised the Company to make purchases of up to 10% of its ordinary shares on the shown within the Directors remuneration report on page 74.
As at 1 March 2016, no shares have been purchased Details of Directors share options are pursuant to this authority.
Shareholders will provided in the Directors remuneration be requested to renew these authorities at report on page 74. the 2016 AGM and details are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
Directors Conflicts of Interest The Companies Act 2006 allows directors DIRECTORS of public companies, subject to the provisions of the Companys Articles of The Directors of the Company as at the Association, to authorise conflicts and dateof the approval of this Annual Report potential conflicts of interest, where are shown on pages 36 and 37. appropriate.
The authorisation shall be All were Directors throughout the year effective only if the matter is agreed to to 31 December 2015, with the exception without the vote of the director who of Mike Parker, Kjersti Wiklund and Tony is subject to such conflict having been Quinlan who joined the Board on 3 March, counted.
The authority for directors to act in 1 July and 28 July 2015 respectively.
situations of conflict and the rules governing Jonathan Silver retired as a Director at the their duties in such situations are set out AGM held on 8 May 2015.
Nathalie Rachou in the Companys Articles of Association.
joined the Board on 1 January 2016.
A register of conflicts or potential conflicts of interest has been prepared and it is Election and Re-election of Directors available at every Board Meeting.
The Companys Articles of Association which require shareholder approval for Directors and Officers liability insurance any amendments set out the powers of Directors and Officers liability insurance the Directors and the regulations for their was purchased and maintained by the appointment and removal.
In accordance Company during the year.
with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Directors Indemnities all of the Directors of the Company will offer As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, themselves for election or re-election at the Company has indemnified the Directors the 2016 AGM apart from Jack Boyer who in respect of proceedings brought by third is retiring.
The Board is satisfied that each parties and such indemnification was in Director is qualified for re-election by virtue place throughout the year.
of their skills, experience and contribution to the Board.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT None of the Non-Executive Directors Statements of the respective responsibilities offering themselves for election or of the Directors and auditor are set out on re-election has a service contract with pages 83 to 91. the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Biographical details and reasons for reappointment for the Non-Executive Directors are given in the Notice of AGM.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 80 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED CHANGE OF CONTROL Laird is committed to providing equal ARRANGEMENTS opportunities in terms of recruitment, training and career development for all One employee of the Company has a employees, including those with disabilities.
long-standing agreement, which provides for compensation, in addition to the A copy of Lairds Equal Employment contractual notice period, of up to a and Human Rights Policy Statement is maximum of two years base salary for loss available on the Companys website at of employment, which occurs as a result of www.
This additional compensation reduces pro rata to zero over EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION the two years following the date of change The Board recognises that the success of control.
Three other employees of the of the business relies on the skill and Group have agreements which provide dedication of its workforce and therefore compensation of up to a maximum of one encourages two-way communication years base salary for loss of employment with its employees.
Operating subsidiaries which occurs as a result of a takeover offer encourage consultation at local level and or scheme, in addition to their contractual performance and development reviews notice period.
reinforce the link between business goals, an employees contribution and his This additional compensation is fixed at one years base salary during the first six her remuneration.
Laird communicates regularly with its employees, including months following the date of change of control and reduces pro rata to zero over through the provision of information on key events within Laird, charity and community thenext 12 months.
No Director benefits from these arrangements.
On a change of control, the Companys In recognition that Lairds business and bilateral revolving credit facilities may be its activities impact a wide community of cancelled by the lenders by giving not stakeholders including investors, customers, less than 30 days notice to the Company.
employees, suppliers and local communities, Under the terms of the US Dollar Private the Board reviews the significance of social, Placement, concurrently with a change environmental and ethical matters which of control, the Company must notify may affect Laird.
Further details on all these all Noteholders and offer to repay all matters are available in the Corporate Social outstanding amounts within 60 days of the Responsibility report on pages 16 to 19. change of control.
The Noteholders then have a period of 30 days to either accept HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK the offer of repayment or continue with Laird is committed to providing a safe the notes.
working environment for its employees and continuous improvement is sought by the EMPLOYMENT POLICY setting of objectives and targets based on Laird conducts business in multiple relevant national and international health geographic locations and is committed and safety standards and monitoring to complying with the relevant legal performance against these.
In addition, requirements in each of those regions.
Laird maintains a proactive communications Business unit management are responsible strategy amongst all employees to promote for implementing and communicating the and develop good health and safety Laird Equal Employment and Human Rights practices.
Further information is available Policy Statements within their own business inthe Corporate Social Responsibility unit.
Various methods are used throughout reporton pages 16 to 19.
Laird as appropriate in each location for tracking morale, motivation, retention rates and training, which are reported regularly to local management teams.
During the year Laird employed an average of 8,593 employees 2014, 8,939.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 81 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Board has assessed the potential financial and operational impacts, in severe Investing in research and development but plausible scenarios, of the principal risks programmes delivers product innovation and uncertainties set out on pages 32 to and manufacturing improvements 35.
Scenario testing has been undertaken within Laird.
Expenditure in the year to assess the resilience of the Group and ended 31 December 2015 on research its business model to the potential impact and development amounted to 54.5m of six individual key risk scenarios and one 2014, 49.7m, of which 14.7m has been combined scenario as set out on page 31. capitalised 2014, 12.9m.
Laird continues The scenario testing incorporates realistic to develop its technology capabilities, with assumptions based on our risk processes research and development expenditure and experience of real incidents.
Our risk during the year running at 8.6% of assessment further takes account of sales 2014, 8.8%.
This is in line with the availability and effectiveness of the Lairds strategic objective to increase mitigating actions that could realistically R&D expenditure in the year and focus be taken to avoid or reduce the impact on innovation.
or occurrence of the underlying risks.
In considering the likely effectiveness of GOING CONCERN such actions, the conclusions of the Boards As set out in the Statement of Directors regular monitoring and review of risk Responsibilities on page 83, the Accounts management and internal control systems, have been prepared on a going concern as described on pages 30 to 32, is taken basis.
A statement on going concern into account.
relating to a business requires judgement ata point in time about future events which, On the basis of this robust assessment of by their nature, are inherently uncertain.
the principal risks facing the Group, the The Directors have considered the ability Boards review of the three-year business ofLaird to maintain committed loan plan up to September 2018, the Groups finance, meet existing debt covenants and current financial and operational positions the impact of foreign currency exposures, and contracted capital expenditure and asdiscussed in the Chief Financial Officers other matters considered and reviewed report on pages 24 to 29.
The Directors during the year, the Board confirms that have a reasonable expectation that the they have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate Group will continue to operate and meet resources to continue in operational its liabilities, as they fall due, over the three existence for the foreseeable future.
For this year period to December 2018. reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Accounts.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS An analysis of debt is given in note 21 to VIABILITY STATEMENT the financial statements.
An analysis of The Board has assessed the prospects of financial instruments at carrying value the Company over a longer period than the and fair value is given in note 27 to the 12 months required by the going concern financial statements.
Financial instruments requirements of the Code.
This longer-term and related disclosures together with a assessment process supports the Boards discussion of financial risk management statements on both viability, as set out objectives and exposures to credit and below, and going concern, as set out above.
liquidity risk are in accordance with IFRS 7.
Whilst the Board has no reason to believe It is the Companys objective to manage its the Group will not be viable over a longer financial risk so as to minimise the adverse period, it has assessed the Groups viability fluctuations in the financial markets on the over a three-year period to the year Groups reported profitability and cash ending December 2018.
The policies for managing each of the been selected because the Groups annual Groups main financial risk areas are referred corporate planning processes include to in the Chief Financial Officers report on completion of a review during which a pages 24 to 29.
Additionally, the principal three-year strategic plan is prepared.
risks and uncertainties on pages 32 to 35 This gives management and the Board deals with currency exposure risk and the sufficient, realistic visibility on the future mitigating activities adopted.
in the context of the Groups current and anticipated operating environment and markets conditions.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 82 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS As at 29 February 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to the signing The acquisition of Novero was completed of this document, the Company had on 20 January 2016. received the notifications of control of 3% or more over the Companys total voting AUDITOR rights andcapital in issue as set out in the Following a tender process during the table below.
year, it is recommended that Deloitte LLP be appointed as auditor on 29 April 2016.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Further details are set out in the Report of As at the date of this report, as far as each the Audit Committee on page 50.
Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor SHAREHOLDERS is unaware.
Each Director has taken all At 31 December 2015 there were the steps that he ought to have taken as 3,585 shareholders.
a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to SUBSTANTIAL EQUITY INTERESTS establish that the Companys auditor is The Disclosure Rules and Transparency aware of that information.
Rules DTRs issued by the Financial The Annual Report including the Strategic Conduct Authority require notifications Report on pages 1 to 35 was approved by relating to control over exercising voting the Board of Directors and authorised for rights attached to shares.
Categories of issue on 1 March 2016. notifiable interests include direct interests holdings of shares with voting rights By Order of the Board attached, indirect interests those with access to voting rights and financial J G DU PLESSIS instruments which give the holder the GENERAL COUNSEL AND COMPANY formal entitlement to acquire shares with SECRETARY voting rights attached.
Notification must 1 March 2016 be made of each category, and also the aggregate of combined holdings, which Registered office exceed or fall below the notifiable threshold.
100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ The requirements of the DTRs specify Registered in England No.
55513 that, save in certain limited circumstances, notifications of holdings of 3% or over have to be made when a full percentage point increase or decrease occurs.
The Company has only one class of shares, and does not hold treasury shares, so the total number of voting rights under the DTRs is equivalent to the number of shares in issue.
Number of Percentage of Nature of Shares voting rights holding Artemis Investment Management 43,004,309 15.85% Indirect Mondrian Investment Partners 13,384,599 4.99% Indirect LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 83 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES 2015 The following statement, which should financial position of the Group and enable be read in conjunction with the Auditors them to ensure that the financial statements statement of their responsibilities on comply with the Companies Act 2006 and pages 84 to 91, is made with a view as regards the Group financial statements, to distinguishing for shareholders the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are respective responsibilities of the Directors also responsible for safeguarding the and the Auditor in relation to the assets of the Company and the Group and financial statements.
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other The Directors are responsible for preparing irregularities.
They are also responsible the Annual Report and the financial for the maintenance and integrity of the statements in accordance with applicable corporate and financial information included United Kingdom law and regulations.
Legislation in the Under that law the Directors have prepared United Kingdom governing the preparation Group financial statements in accordance and dissemination of financial with International Financial Reporting statements may differ from legislation in Standards IFRSs as adopted by the other jurisdictions.
European Union and the parent company financial statements in accordance with We confirm that, to the best of United Kingdom Generally Accepted our knowledge: Accounting Practice.
i the Group financial statements, The Directors are required to prepare prepared in accordance with IFRS as financial statements for each financial adopted by the EU, give a true and fair year which present a true and fair view view of the assets, liabilities, financial of the financial position of the Group and position and result of the Group taken Company and the financial performance as a whole: and cash flows of the Group for that period.
ii t he Strategic Report includes a fair In preparing those financial statements on review of the development and a going concern basis, the Directors are performance of the business and the required to: position of the Group, together with a select suitable accounting policies and description of the principal risks and then apply them consistently: uncertainties that it faces: and make judgements and accounting iii the Annual Report and financial estimates that are reasonable: statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and present information, including accounting provide the information necessary for policies, in a manner that provides shareholders to assess the Groups relevant, reliable, comparable and performance, business model understandable information: and and strategy.
state that the Group has complied with By order of the Board IFRS as adopted by the EU and that the parent company has complied with DAVID LOCKWOOD TONY QUINLAN UK accounting standards, subject to CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHIEF FINANCIAL any material departures disclosed and OFFICER explained in the financial statements.
1 March 2016 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, the
