"Corporate Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of Marshalls plc only We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Opinion on Financial Statements ofMarshalls plc In our opinion: the Directors Confirmation on page 23 that they have carried the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future stateofthe Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at31December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year performance, solvency or liquidity: thenended: the disclosures on pages 20 to 23 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the Directors Statement in Note 1 to the Financial Statements ""IFRSs"" as adopted by the European Union: about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and thedate of approval of the Financial Statements: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance the Directors Explanation on page 23 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the theyhave done so and why they consider that period to beappropriate, and their statement as to whether they have IASRegulation."
areasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue The Financial Statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive period of their assessment, including any related disclosures Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
theConsolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated and Parent We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis Company Statements of Changes in Equity, and the related Notes 1 to 40.
The financial reporting framework thathas been applied in the ofaccounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Independence Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Ethical Standards for Auditors andwe confirm that we are independent Reduced Disclosure Framework.
of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities Going concern and theDirectors assessment inaccordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not oftheprincipal risks that would threaten the solvency provided anyoftheprohibited non-audit services referred to in orliquidity of the Group thosestandards.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors Statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within Note 1 to the Financial Statements and the Directors Statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report on page 23.
Marshalls plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our assessment of risks  The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are thosethat had the greatest effect onour audit strategy, the allocation ofresources in the audit and directing the efforts oftheengagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Carrying value of inventories We have: The Group is primarily involved in the manufacture and sale of landscape reviewed business processes surrounding the recording of products and natural stone products, selling to both Public Sector and inventory quantities and management's review for the valuation Commercial and Domestic end users.
It records inventory at the lower of of the items: cost and net realisable value, carrying a large amount of inventories in order to meet customer needs on demand.
The Group offers a wide range of tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness non-perishable products that are manufactured and subsequently stored of controls around the key accounting cycles relating to inlarge quantities at various locations, and therefore carries a high level of purchasing, inventory quantities and inventory provisioning inventories at any given point.
across the Groups sites: A risk therefore exists that inventories, particularly those which are aged, used analytical techniques to review sales of product lines by site mayneed to be discounted before they can be sold.
The risk of discounting, to focus on areas of risk in the provisions for net realisable value: combined with potential costs to move the inventories to a location where selected a sample of inventory items and agreed key inputs in the demand exists, may result in the inventories being sold at below cost.
valuation such as materials costs and expected sales prices, rebates The Directors are responsible for making judgements surrounding: and shipping costs to supporting documentation: the length of time required to sell inventories: challenged the key assumptions concerning overhead absorption by assessing the appropriateness of costs included the level of discounts necessary to sell inventories inthe calculation: ie.
provisioninglevels : tested the standard cost assessment and year-end adjustment to whether inventories will need to be discounted below actual cost by performing walkthroughs of the costing exercise theircostprice: and and verifying the actual costs of production for a representative the appropriateness of standard costs and the level sample of products: and ofprovisioning applied.
assessed the accuracy of prior year provisions for indications that The carrying value of the Groups finished goods inventory as disclosed current year provisions may be materially misstated.
in Note 12 is noted as a critical accounting estimate in Note 26 to the Financial Statements.
Completeness of rebate expenses We have: The Group enters into a number of commercial agreements with its reviewed business processes and tested the design customers which have varying terms and as such a risk exists that andimplementation of controls surrounding the rebate rebate agreements with customers are not correctly accounted for, expensecycles: potentially resulting in an overstatement of revenue and profit.
This becomes increasingly pertinent as the Groups revenues increase, reviewed a sample of rebate agreements for key customers to assess rebate expenses become larger, and new agreements are initiated.
whether provisions are calculated in line with contractual terms: The Directors are responsible for making judgements surrounding performed procedures to assess the accuracy of the brought thelevel of provisions to apply for rebate agreements.
forward rebate accrual including verification to subsequent cashpayments: As described in Note 1 to the Financial Statements, revenue recognised represents the invoiced value of sales to customers less assessed post year-end transactions to consider the returns, allowances and value added tax.
This is further noted as a completeness of the closing accrual: and critical accounting estimate in Note 26 to the Financial Statements.
selected a sample of sales transactions to agree to customer order and to receipt of cash to gain assurance over the completeness and existence of revenue and rebate expenses.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed onpages 61 to 63.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, andwedo not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Marshalls plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Marshalls plc only Our application ofmateriality Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Act 2006 In our opinion: Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Act 2006: and We determined materiality for the Group to be 1.75 million which the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors isbelow 5 per cent of pre-tax profit, and below 1 per cent of equity.
Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements In2014 the previous auditor set materiality at 1.3 million on the are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
basisof5.8 per cent of pre-tax profit.
Matters on which wearerequired to We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the reportbyexception Audit Committee all audit differences in excess of 35,000 in 2014 Adequacy of explanations received and the previous auditor reported on all amounts in excess of 65,000 accountingrecords aswell as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee inour opinion: on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall we have not received all the information and explanations we presentation of the Financial Statements.
require for our audit: or An overview of the scopeofour audit adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been theGroup and its environment, including Group-wide controls, received from branches not visited by us: or andassessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The Group and Parent Company audits are performed at the Groups the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement head office in Elland, West Yorkshire.
All subsidiaries of the Group with the accounting records and returns.
except Marshalls NV, based in Belgium, are based in the UKat Elland.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
The Group audit team performed the audit of all UK components, which accounted for 96 per cent of Group revenue, 98per cent Directors remuneration ofGroup net assets and 98 per cent of Group profit before tax.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, inour opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have Marshalls NV accounted for the remaining revenue, net assets and not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report profit before tax and was audited by Deloitte Antwerp under the tobe audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and supervision of the Group audit team to a component materiality returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement In our first year as the Groups statutory Auditor, the Group audit team Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the followed a programme of planned visits that has been designed so Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys thatsenior members of the audit team have visited all of the Groups compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance keylocations, including the Groups Belgian site and a number of UK Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
In addition, the senior statutory Auditor hasvisited a number of manufacturing sites in the UK and been involvedinthe planning and reporting procedures for all of the Groups components.
In future years we will continue to include the component audit partner and team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
Marshalls plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our duty to read otherinformation intheAnnual Report Scope of the audit of theFinancial Statements Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable Report is: assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an materially inconsistent with the information in the Audited assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Financial Statements: or the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the inthecourse of performing our audit: or overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report otherwise misleading.
toidentify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified Statements and to identify any information that is apparently any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Ifwe become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor Christopher Robertson Senior statutory auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Manchester, UK Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial 11 March 2016 Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Ouraudit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Marshalls plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
