83 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC In our opinion: The parent company financial statements The financial statements comprise the have been properly prepared in Consolidated Income Statement, the The financial statements give a true accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive and fair view of the state of the Groups the European Union and as applied Income, the Consolidated and Company and of the parent companys aff airs in accordance with the provisions Statements of Financial Position, the as at 28 March 2015 and of the Groups of the Companies Act 2006.
Consolidated and Company Statements pro t for the 52 weeks then ended.
of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated The financial statements have been and Company Statements of Cash Flows, The Group financial statements have prepared in accordance with the the reconciliation of net cash ow to been properly prepared in accordance requirements of the Companies movement in net debt note, and the with International Financial Reporting Act 2006 and, as regards the Group related notes 1 to 27.
The financial reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the financial statements, Article 4 of framework that has been applied in their European Union.
preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
GOING CONCERN As required by the Listing Rules we have We have concluded that the directors use However, because not all future events or reviewed the directors statement contained of the going concern basis of accounting conditions can be predicted, this statement within the Other disclosures section on in the preparation of the financial is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to page 82 that the Group is a going concern.
We con rm that: We have not identi ed any material uncertainties that may cast signi cant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The key risks we identi ed are: The assessed risks of material misstatement Our audit procedures relating to these are those that had the greatest eff ect on matters were designed in the context of 1 Presentation of non-GAAP measures our audit strategy, the allocation of our audit of the financial statements as a resources in the audit and directing the whole, and not to express an opinion on 2 Impairment of store assets eff orts of the engagement team.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not The Audit Committee has requested that, modi ed with respect to any of the risks 3 Inventory valuation and provisions while not required under International described below, and we do not express an Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, opinion on these individual matters.
4 Revenue recognition gift cards, we include in our report any signi cant See tables on p84-87 for more detail.
loyalty schemes, returns and findings in respect of these assessed franchise arrangements risks of material misstatement.
The description of risks below should be 5 Supplier rebates read in conjunction with the signi cant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 48 and 49.
6 Retirement bene ts FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 84 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED PRESENTATION OF 1 NON-GAAP MEASURES Risk description The presentation of income and costs In calculating the reported non-GAAP Items may be omitted from the nonwithin non-GAAP measures to derive measures, there are two risks which may underlying adjustments which are underlying pro t before tax under IFRS is result in the underlying pro t measure material and one-off in nature.
judgemental, with IFRS only requiring the being misstated and therefore not being Explanations of each adjustment to derive separate presentation of material items.
reliable to users of the financial statements: underlying pro t from the reported pro t Judgement is required in determining the Items may be included in the nonbefore tax are set out in notes 1 and 5 to the classi cation of items as non-underlying.
underlying adjustments which are financial statements.
underlying or recurring items, distorting the reported underlying earnings.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We evaluated the appropriateness of the We assessed all items, either highlighted by Audit Committee and any disclosure inclusion of items, both individually and in management or identi ed through the considerations.
aggregate, within non-underlying pro ts, course of our audit, which were regarded as Findings We are satis ed that the items including assessing the consistency of one-off but included within underlying excluded from underlying earnings and the items included year-on-year and ensuring earnings to ensure that these are not related disclosure of these items in the adherence to IFRS requirements and material either individually or in aggregate.
latest Financial Reporting Council FRC For all adjustments recorded in calculating guidance.
We also agreed these items to underlying pro ts, we discussed the supporting evidence.
appropriateness of the item with the IMPAIRMENT OF 2 STORE ASSETS Risk description As described in the Accounting Policies in The key assumptions applied by the general merchandise stock at a discount, note 1 and in note 15 to the financial directors in the impairment reviews are: and certain strategic stores.
The outlet statements, the Group held 5,031.1m stores are considered to represent one Country-speci c discount rates.
of property, plant and equipment at CGU in aggregate and strategic stores are 28 March 2015.
There is a risk that the Future revenue growth.
evaluated as part of a country-wide carrying value of stores and related xed impairment review.
assets may be higher than the recoverable The Groups accounting policy sets out a amount.
When a review for impairment Store costs, including rent, staff payroll relevant shelter period for new stores to is conducted, the recoverable amount costs and general operating costs.
be taken into account when assessing is determined based on value in use The directors consider that each retail store indicators of impairment during initial calculations which rely on the directors constitutes its own cash generating unit years of trading to enable the store to assumptions and estimates of future CGU, with the exception of the outlet establish itself in the market.
stores which are used to clear old season How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We considered the appropriateness of the Comparing forecast growth rates to current trading performance.
Where stores methodology applied by the directors in economic data.
were trading signi cantly below the original calculating the impairment charges, and case, we considered the evidence available Evaluating the information included in the judgements applied in determining the to support future improvements in the impairment models through our CGUs of the business.
performance, speci cally by assessing the knowledge of the business gained trading plans and actions being taken on an We assessed the impairment models and through reviewing trading plans, individual store basis.
calculations by: strategic initiatives, and meeting with senior trading managers from key Findings We concluded that the Checking the mechanical accuracy of categories and our retail industry assumptions applied in the impairment the impairment models.
models were appropriate, including those Assessing the discount rates applied to made around shelter periods and no We assessed the appropriateness of the the impairment reviews for each country additional impairments were identi ed shelter period for each store opened within and comparing the rates to our internal from the work performed above.
that time frame, and compared the original benchmark data.
investment case for the store against its 85 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED INVENTORY VALUATION 3 AND PROVISIONS Risk description At 28 March 2015, the Group held As a result, the directors apply judgement plans for inventory to go into sale and stock inventories of 797.8m.
As described in in determining the appropriate provisions loss based upon the run rate from recent the Accounting Policies in note 1 to the for obsolete stock based upon a detailed inventory counts.
financial statements, inventories are carried analysis of old season inventory, net at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
realisable value below cost based upon How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We obtained assurance over the Comparing the net realisable value, We evaluated consumer trends identi ed appropriateness of managements obtained through a detailed review of through benchmarking and external assumptions applied in calculating the sales subsequent to the year end using market data to challenge the assumptions value of the inventory provisions by: audit analytics, to the cost price of underlying sales forecasts by category to inventories to check for completeness assess the completeness of provisions for Checking the eff ectiveness of key of the associated provision.
inventory controls operating across the Group, including those at 15 distribution Performing audit analytics on stock Findings The results of our testing were centres and 26 retail stores.
holding and movement data to identify satisfactory and we concur that the level product lines with indicators of low stock of inventory provisions is appropriate.
Attending inventory counts at 15 turn or stock ageing.
Meeting with buyers to validate the Checking for a sample of individual assumptions applied by management products that invoiced costs have compared to the current purchasing been correctly recorded and that the strategy and ranging plans.
allocation of directly attributable costs has been correctly calculated.
Reviewing the historical accuracy of inventory provisioning, and the level of inventory write-off s during the year in relation to stock loss.
REVENUE RECOGNITION GIFT CARDS, LOYALTY 4 SCHEMES, RETURNS AND FRANCHISE ARRANGEMENTS Risk description As described in the Accounting Policies reversed in the next financial period.
The complexity of pricing structures in note 1 to the financial statements, the The directors apply judgement in across franchise relationships, and the Groups revenue recognition policies determining the provision required for Groups expansion into new franchise require the directors to make a number of returns based on the prior five weeks agreements, create a risk that revenue assumptions in determining the reported sales and recent product return rates.
may be misstated due to the speci c revenue for the period.
The key Returns from online sales are commonly terms of business agreed with each assumptions are: at a higher level than traditional store franchise partner.
In addition, as explained retailing, resulting in this judgement on page 29 of the Strategic Report, Gift cards, vouchers and loyalty schemes becoming more signi cant in international franchise markets have the directors apply an expected determining the level of provision been particularly challenging due to the redemption rate to the total value of required.
economic and political environments gift cards, vouchers and loyalty points in the Middle East, Russia and Ukraine, in issue based on historic trends.
The Group reported revenues in the giving rise to a further risk that franchise period from the sale of food and general Returns customers are entitled to receivables may be irrecoverable.
merchandise to international franchise return products up to 35 days after partners and the sale of food to UK Continues on p86 purchase, giving rise to a risk that sales franchise partners.
recognised during the period will be FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 86 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED REVENUE RECOGNITION GIFT CARDS, LOYALTY 4 SCHEMES, RETURNS AND FRANCHISE ARRANGEMENTS CONTINUED How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We considered each revenue-impacting Assessing the pricing structure and considering correspondence received provision individually, and assessed the determining whether revenue has been from franchise partners by the Group, appropriateness of the assumptions and recognised in line with the terms of the and challenging management on the judgements applied.
agreement including the consideration judgements applied in calculating any of any rights to return old inventories.
For the most For the key assumptions used in the signi cant franchises, we obtained external gift card, voucher and loyalty scheme Considering the payment terms and con rmations of key agreement terms, provisions, we assessed the historic rates comparing them to the payment and the balance due for payment as at of redemption and compared these to the patterns experienced with the 28 March 2015. directors judgements.
Findings We are satis ed that the key We assessed the appropriateness of the We independently assessed the assumptions applied in calculating the methodology applied in calculating the recoverability of franchise receivables gift card, voucher and loyalty scheme returns provision, and compared the more than 30 days past due under the provisions are appropriate.
The run-rate calculated provision to the actual level franchise agreement, and all receivables applied to calculate the provision for of returns recorded subsequent to the from franchises in the Middle East, Russia refunds is appropriate and testing period end.
and Ukraine due to the risks identi ed performed in relation to recognition of above.
Our assessment included reviewing We reviewed a sample of franchise revenues from franchise partners or the historic payment patterns for selected agreements, including new agreements recoverability of any amounts outstanding franchises, checking cash received during the period.
Our review speci cally at the year end proved satisfactory.
subsequent to the reporting date, focused on: SUPPLIER 5 REBATES Risk description As described in the Accounting Policies rebates.
The majority of these Judgement is required in determining in note 1 to the financial statements, the contributions tend to be small in unit value the period over which the reduction in Group recognises a reduction in cost of but high in volume and span relatively cost of sales should be recognised, sales as a result of amounts receivable short periods of time, although these can requiring both a detailed understanding of from suppliers, primarily comprising be across the financial year end.
There are the contractual arrangements themselves contributions in relation to promotions a small number of larger arrangements, as well as complete and accurate source in the Food business, strategic volume which relate to multi-year periods.
data to apply the arrangements to.
moves and some annual volume-based How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We tested that amounts recognised were and discounts by agreement to supporting We also tested a sample of invoices and accurate and recorded in the correct evidence, including volume data and debit notes raised post year end to test the period based on the contractual promotion dates.
completeness and accuracy of accrued performance obligations by agreeing a supplier income at 28 March 2015.
In We performed revenue and margin sample to individual supplier agreements.
addition we tested the recoverability of analysis to understand detailed trends We circularised a sample of suppliers to the amounts due at the year end.
by product category in order to identify test whether the arrangements recorded apparent anomalies which may indicate Findings The results of our testing were were complete and interviewed a sample potential rebate income errors.
We consider the disclosure of buyers to supplement our anomalies were investigated to assess given around supplier rebates to provide understanding of the contractual whether they were indicative of a misan accurate understanding of the types arrangements.
application of contractual terms or other of rebate income received and the impact We tested the completeness and accuracy calculation errors.
on the statement of financial position as at of the systematic inputs to the 28 March 2015. calculations for recording supplier rebates 87 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED RETIREMENT 6 BENEFITS Risk description As described in the Accounting Policies in where no new bene ts have accrued since net retirement bene t asset has shown note 1 and in notes 1 1 and 12 to the financial 31 October 2013. signi cant volatility, as the valuation is statements, the Group has a fide ned bene t sensitive to changes in key assumptions At 28 March 2015, the Group recorded a net pension plan for its UK employees, which such as the discount rate and in ation retirement bene t asset of 449.0m, being was closed to new entrants with eff ect from estimates.
The setting of assumptions the net of scheme assets of 8,596.5m and 1 April 2002, and a funded fide ned bene t is complex and an area of signi cant scheme liabilities of 8,147.5m.
The Groups pension scheme in the Republic of Ireland, judgement.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We evaluated the directors assessment of valuation performed and the key We obtained asset con rmations or carried the assumptions made in the valuation of the assumptions applied, and evaluated their out other audit procedures to test the scheme assets and liabilities, and evaluated expertise.
We benchmarked and performed a completeness and accuracy of the the information contained within the sensitivity analysis on the key variables in the scheme assets.
actuarial valuation reports for each scheme.
valuation model, including: Findings From the work performed above We tested the membership census data used Salary increases.
we are satis ed that all assumptions applied in the valuation of the schemes and, with in respect of the valuation of the scheme In ation rates.
support from our own actuarial specialists, assets and liabilities are appropriate.
we considered the valuation process applied Mortality rates.
by the Groups actuaries, the scope of the Discount rates.
IN THE PREVIOUS YEARS AUDIT REPORT, THE FOLLOWING RISKS WERE ALSO INCLUDED: These have not been included as key risks in Impairment of goodwill and brands: and Management override of controls.
Our application of materiality We determined materiality for the We agreed with the Audit Committee that in our view, warranted reporting on Group to be 32.0m.
we would report to the Committee all audit qualitative grounds.
We also report diff erences in excess of 1.0m 2014: the to the Audit Committee on disclosure We reported all audit diff erences predecessor auditor reported on all matters that we identi ed when assessing in excess of 1.0m.
diff erences identi ed above 1.5m as well the overall presentation of the financial We fide ne materiality as the magnitude of as diff erences below that threshold that, statements.
misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable Materiality person would be changed or in uenced.
Group materiality We use materiality both in planning the 32m scope of our audit work and in evaluating Component the results of our work.
32m materiality range 600m 5% 21m to 2m We determined materiality for the Group to be 32.0m, which is approximately 5% Audit Committee reporting threshold of pre-tax pro t and below 1% of equity.
1m The materiality used by the predecessor auditor in 2014 was 31.0m, which represented 5% of pre-tax pro t adjusted Group materiality PBT for non-GAAP performance measures.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS 88 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Scope of audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining Based on that assessment, we focused our for undertaking audit work to address an understanding of the Group and its Group audit scope primarily on the audit the risks of material misstatement environment, including Group-wide work at eight wholly-owned locations: identi ed above.
Whilst we audit the controls, and assessing the risks of material United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, Czech revenues received by the Group from misstatement at the Group level.
The Republic, Greece, Turkey, India, China and franchise operations, which account for Group has retail operations in 59 countries, Hong Kong.
All of these were subject to a 3% of the Groups revenue, we do not audit of which 17 are wholly-owned businesses, full audit.
These locations represent the the underlying franchise operations.
two are joint ventures, and 40 operate principal business units and account for under franchise agreements in addition 99% of the Groups revenue and 95% of to two wholly-owned businesses which the Groups pro t before tax and 76% of also operate franchise agreements in the Groups net assets.
They were also those territories.
selected to provide an appropriate basis Audit components We performed a full scope audit on Full scope audit components representing 99% of components the Groups revenue and 95% of the Groups pro t before tax and 76% of the Groups net assets.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to con rm our REVENUE PROFIT BEFORE TAX NET ASSETS conclusion that there were no signi cant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated Analytical procedures 1% 2% 7% Speci c audit procedures 0% 3% 17% financial information of the remaining Full audit 99% 95% 76% components not subject to a full audit.
We visited all signi cant least once.
Each component was visited In years when we do not visit a signi cant components during the year during our transition, planning and risk component we will include the component The most signi cant component of assessment process, in order for a senior audit team in our team brie ng, discuss the Group is its retail business in the member of the Group audit team to their risk assessment, and review United Kingdom, which accounts for 89% obtain a thorough understanding of the documentation of the findings from of the Groups revenue, 91% of the Groups operations, risks and control environments their work.
operating pro t and 50% of the Groups of each component.
For more signi cant net assets.
The Group audit team performs In addition to our visits in these locations, or complex components, we conducted a the audit of the UK business without senior members of each component second visit during the audit to review the the involvement of a component team.
audit team attended a two-day training component auditors working papers and During the course of our audit, the Group programme hosted by the Group audit attend key meetings with component audit team conducted 16 distribution team covering topics which included management.
centre and 27 retail store visits in the UK understanding the business and its core to understand the current trading Going forward, we will follow a programme strategy, a discussion of the signi cant performance and, at certain locations, of planned visits that has been designed so risks and workshops on our planned perform tests of internal controls and that a senior member of the Group audit audit approach.
validate levels of inventory held.
team visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused at Since this was our first year as the Groups least once every two years, and the most auditor, we visited each of the eight signi cant of them at least once a year.
signi cant locations outlined above at OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion The part of the Directors Remuneration The information given in the Strategic Report to be audited has been properly Report and the Directors Report for the prepared in accordance with the financial year for which the financial Companies Act 2006. statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
89 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received Directors remuneration Materially inconsistent with the and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also information in the audited financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if in our opinion certain statements.
required to report to you if, in our opinion: disclosures of directors remuneration have Apparently materially incorrect based not been made or the part of the Directors We have not received all the information on, or materially inconsistent with, our Remuneration Report to be audited is not and explanations we require for our knowledge of the Group acquired in the in agreement with the accounting records audit.
course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report Adequate accounting records have not arising from these matters.
been kept by the parent company, or Corporate Governance Statement In particular, we are required to consider returns adequate for our audit have not Under the Listing Rules we are also required whether we have identi ed any been received from branches not visited to review the part of the Corporate inconsistencies between our knowledge by us.
Governance Statement relating to the acquired during the audit and the directors The parent company financial Companys compliance with ten provisions statement that they consider the Annual statements are not in agreement with of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Report is fair, balanced and understandable the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from and whether the Annual Report our review.
appropriately discloses those matters that We have nothing to report in respect of we communicated to the Audit Committee these matters.
Our duty to read other information which we consider should have been in the Annual Report disclosed.
We con rm that we have not Under International Standards on Auditing identi ed any such inconsistencies or UK and Ireland, we are required to report misleading statements.
to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors We also comply with International Standard of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work Responsibilities Statement, the directors on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our has been undertaken so that we might are responsible for the preparation of the audit methodology and tools aim to ensure state to the Companys members those financial statements and for being satis ed that our quality control procedures are matters we are required to state to them that they give a true and fair view.
Our eff ective, understood and applied.
Our in an auditors report and for no other responsibility is to audit and express an quality controls and systems include our purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted opinion on the financial statements in dedicated professional standards review by law, we do not accept or assume accordance with applicable law and team and independent partner reviews.
responsibility to anyone other than the International Standards on Auditing UK Company and the Companys members This report is made solely to the and Ireland.
Those standards require us as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Companys members, as a body, in to comply with the Auditing Practices or for the opinions we have formed.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence or materially inconsistent with, the The reasonableness of signi cant about the amounts and disclosures in the knowledge acquired by us in the course of accounting estimates made by the financial statements suffi cient to give directors.
If we become aware reasonable assurance that the financial of any apparent material misstatements The overall presentation of the statements are free from material or inconsistencies we consider the financial statements.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or implications for our report.
This includes an assessment of: In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Whether the accounting policies are Report to identify material inconsistencies appropriate to the Groups and the with the audited financial statements parent companys circumstances and and to identify any information that is have been consistently applied and apparently materially incorrect based on, adequately disclosed.
Ian Waller Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 19 May 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
