Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MARSTONS PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion, Marstons PLCs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 3 October 2015 and of its profit and cash ows for the period thenended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EuropeanUnion: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Group Balance Sheet as at 3 October 2015: the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period then ended: the Group Cash Flow Statement for the period then ended: the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the period then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other .
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identied as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 4.6 million which represents 5% of profit before tax and non-underlyingitems.
Audit performed at the level of the consolidated Group Audit scope Valuation of the estate Disclosure of items as non-underlying Areas of focus Accounting for uncertain tax positions Accounting for the acquisition of the beer division of Daniel Thwaites PLC The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, wealso addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
64 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identied as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specic areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identied by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of the estate notes 1, 4, 11, 12 and 15 We focused on the Directors annual assessment of the carrying value We obtained the Directors valuation and impairment analysis of land and buildings because properties are a significant item on the and discussed the valuations, the methodology adopted and the balance sheet.
The valuation in the period resulted in a net increase in assumptions used with the Groups estates team and our valuation shareholders equity of 57.3 million and a net 38.6 million impairment specialists.
We also took into account the impact of changes in charge in the income statement.
There are complex and subjective macroeconomic conditions, pub performance and recent market assumptions used in the valuations, including the future expected transactions and their associated multiples.
We assessed the performance of pubs and multiples to be applied.
valuation methodologies adopted and found them to be appropriate.
We veried managements assumptions on future earnings and multiples using recent market transactions data, historical pub performance and the level of investment in properties and considered the impact of movements in key assumptions.
We found the assumptions adopted to be appropriate and consistent with our knowledge of the business.
Where material adjustments to valuations of specic assets occurred we agreed the revaluation adopted by management to external market information or third party evidence, including offers received that supported the value.
We found that the estate had been valued in line with the Groups policy using appropriate methodologies and assumptions.
Disclosure of items as non-underlying notes 1 and 4 The financial statements include certain items which are disclosed as We assessed the appropriateness of the Groups accounting non-underlying such as non-core estate disposal and reorganisation policy and whether those items disclosed as non-underlying were costs, impairment charges in respect of the property estate, losses on consistent with the accounting policy and the approach taken in the portfolio disposal of pubs and the results arising from the ongoing previous accounting periods.
We found the Groups accounting management of these pubs, recognition of onerous lease provisions policy to be appropriate and the classication of items to be and associated leasehold impairments, movements in the financial consistent with the accounting policy.
assumptions used in determining the onerous lease provisions, We also considered an appropriate threshold to apply to nonrelocation, reorganisation and integration costs and movements in the underlying items based on the financial statement line items fair value of interest rate swaps.
Management has included these items that were affected.
For example, property items are considered as non-underlying using the criteria explained in their accounting policy by management to have a higher threshold for disclosure as which is disclosed in note 1 to the financial statements.
We concluded that the thresholds adopted are We focused on this area because non-underlying items are not dened appropriate in the circumstances.
by IFRS as adopted by the European Union and it therefore requires We assessed whether other non-recurring items should have been judgement by the Directors to identify such items.
Consistency in classied as non-underlying and discussed this with the Directors identifying and disclosing items as non-underlying is important to and the Audit Committee.
We confirmed that all significant items maintain comparability of the results with previous periods.
meeting the criteria in the Groups accounting policy had been identied and that the treatment was consistent year on year.
Accounting for uncertain tax positions note1 The Group has a number of outstanding corporate and indirect tax We examined correspondence with HM Revenue & Customs and positions where recognition in the financial statements is judgemental any legal challenges relevant to the individual circumstances of given the uncertainty of settlement.
We assessed the position taken by the Directors in respect of these uncertainties.
These uncertainties arise because these matters have not yet been resolved with HM Revenue & Customs and the Directors have had to We evaluated the appropriateness of the recognition or non make material judgements about the recognition or non-recognition of recognition of the benets or liabilities associated with these tax the benets or liabilities associated with the tax positions.
positions, and the treatment of any related interest.
We found that the positions taken by the Directors were appropriate.
65 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MARSTONS PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for the acquisition of the beer division of Daniel Thwaites PLC note 35 The Group acquired the trade and assets of the We tested the brand value by understanding the appropriateness of the beer division of Daniel Thwaites PLC Thwaites for methodology used, benchmarking the value using a royalty replacement method consideration of 28.8 million.
and considering comparable market transactions.
We compared the forecast revenue and margins for the Thwaites beer brands to historic performance and Accounting for the acquisition of the trade and assets evaluated the brand valuation in the context of the rationale for the acquisition and involved judgements in relation to the identication and the objectives of the accounting framework.
We found that the brand valuation valuation of the assets and liabilities to be recognised, was consistent with the application of industry practices and market transactions.
particularly in respect of the acquired brands.
We evaluated the fair value ascribed to the acquired assets and liabilities, for The value of the acquired brands, which was calculated example by challenging managements assessment of the acquired inventory and by management, included estimates about future accounts receivable with reference to Marstons experience in recovering debt earnings and current market multiples.
and the margins on other beer brands.
We found the fair value ascribed to the Judgement was required to determine whether costs acquired assets and liabilities to be reasonable.
arising from the Thwaites acquisition met the Groups We considered the classication of the restructuring costs incurred following accounting policy for non-underlying items.
the business combination as non-underlying and the appropriateness of their identication.
We determined that they had been identied accurately and had been classied in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, theindustry in which the Group operates and the integration of the acquired Thwaites business.
The Group is structured along four business lines being Destination and Premium, Taverns, Leased and Brewing, supported by Group Services.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of subsidiaries and special purpose entities, principally comprising the Groups operating businesses, property companies, securitisation vehicles, holding companies and an insurancecompany.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit we considered the consolidated trial balance for the Group as a whole and designed our audit testing for each financial statement line item based on the size and nature of the transactions and balances that are aggregated to form that line item and our assessment of the risk of material misstatement.
We used our professional judgement to determine the nature and extent of testing required over each line item in the financial statements.
Materiality The scope of our audit was inuenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 4.6 million 2014: 4.2 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax and non-underlying items.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax and non-underlying items is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
The exclusion of items classied as non-underlying is consistent with previous periods and practice within the sector.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identied during our audit above 0.2 million 2014: 0.2 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statements, set out on page 62, in relation to going concern.
Wehave nothing to report having performed our review.
66 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are also required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statements, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or to report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the Directors on page 62, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and to report.
understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 36 to 37, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work We have no exceptions of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: The Directors conrmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal We have nothing risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or material to add or to liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing ormitigated.
material to add or to draw attention to.
The Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over We have nothing what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to material to add or to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue as a going concern in operation draw attention to.
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group, set out on page 21.
Our review was substantially less in in scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
67 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO the MEMBERS OF MARSTONS PLC continued Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 62, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequatelydisclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Marstons PLC for the period ended 3 October 2015 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Mark Smith Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 26 November 2015 68
