142 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC Adequacy of accounting records and information and Report on the company financial statements explanations received Our opinion Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to In our opinion, Meggitt PLCs parent company financial you if, in our opinion: statements the financial statements : we have not received all the information and explanations give atrue and fair view of the state of the parent companys we require for our audit: or affairs as at 31 December 2015: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the have been properly prepared in accordance with United parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and notbeen received from branches not visited by us: or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements the financial statements and the part of the Directors ofthe Companies Act 2006. remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
comprise: Directors remuneration the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: Directors remuneration report -  the Company statement of changes in equity: and In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the notes to the financial statements, which include the Companies Act 2006. asummary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no statements and are identified as audited.
exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in Responsibilities for the financial statements the preparation of the financial statements is United Kingdom and theaudit Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101: Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Our responsibilities and those of the directors Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on pages 83 to 84, the directors are Other required reporting responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give atrue and fair view.
Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report financial statements in accordance with applicable law and and the Directors report for the financial year for which ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for financial statements.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for ISAs UK & Ireland reporting and only for the parent companys members as abody in Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other materially inconsistent with the information in the audited purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown financial statements: or or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially by our prior consent in writing.
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 143 What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide areasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
Weobtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness ofcontrols, substantive procedures or acombination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Meggitt PLC for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 22 February 2016
