STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 85 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC Our audit approach Report on the Group financial statements Overview Our opinion In our opinion, Meggitt PLCs Group financial statements Materiality Overall Group materiality: 10 million thefinancial statements : which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Audit Scope We identified 10 reporting units which, in give atrue and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs our view, required afull scope audit based asat 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for on their size or risk.
In addition we the year then ended: determined that specified audit procedures have been properly prepared in accordance with were required at afurther 8 reporting units International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs to address specific risk characteristics or asadopted by the European Union: and to provide sufficient overall Group coverage of particular financial statement line items.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We used component teams in 4 countries to perform acombination of full scope audits What we have audited and specified procedures at 12 reporting The financial statements, included within the Annual Report units, with the Group team performing and Accounts The Annual Report, comprise: theremainder.
Reporting units where we performed audit the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: procedures accounted for 63% of Group the Consolidated income statement and the Consolidated profit before tax and 84% of Group total statement of comprehensive income for the year thenended: assets.
Our audit scope provided sufficient appropriate audit evidence as abasis for the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year thenended: our opinion on the Group financial the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the statements as awhole.
year then ended: and Areas of focus Goodwill impairment assessments the notes to the financial statements, which include Development costs and programme asummary of significant accounting policies and other participation costs impairment explanatory information.
assessments Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere Environmental provisions in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial Revenue recognition under long term statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial contract accounting primarily in the statements and are identified as audited.
Groups energy business The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Retirement benefit obligation liabilities preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and Provisions for uncertain tax positions IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented arisk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as awhole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not acomplete list of all risks identified by our audit.
indd 85 07 03 2016 04:33 86 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessments Refer to notes18 pages 114 to 116 The Group holds significant amounts of We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts and the process by which goodwill 1,866.0m on the balance sheet they were drawn up, and tested the integrity of the underlying discounted cash which is supported by an annual flow model.
We compared the forecasts used in this model to the plan and impairment review.
No impairment charge assessed the actual performance in the year against the prior year budgets to has been recorded against goodwill in the evaluate historical forecasting accuracy.
In respect of the two CGUs we focussed on, we assessed the directors Our audit focused on the risk that assumptions for future cash flow growth in the plan, by: thecarrying value of goodwill could Comparing the future cash flow growth assumptions to economic and industry beoverstated.
forecasts, including the civil aerospace capacity trend rate of 5%, measured in Certain assumptions used in the available seat kilometres ASKs and where growth exceeded this sensitising impairment review are subjective and the model down to this rate.
arekey judgements, these include: Evaluating the historical accuracy of the directors forecast to actual The future cash flow growth performance, which in respect of these CGUs, showed performance in line assumptions used in the Groups most with or in excess of forecast: recent budgets and plans for the next Additionally we performed sensitivity analysis in respect of the key five years approved by management the assumptions to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions which, plan, and the growth rate used beyond either individually or collectively, would be required for the goodwill to be the period covered by the plan: and impaired.
We assessed the likelihood of these changes in assumptions arising.
The discount rate applied to future For all impairment assessments we: cashflows.
Tested the discount rates, by comparing key inputs, where relevant, to We focused in particular on the following externally derived data or data for comparable listed organisations.
We used cash-generating units CGUs : our specialists in assessing the overall discount rates used, and observed Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems them to be within areasonable range: and MABS, as it has the highest carrying Considered the use of the long-term GDP growth rate for the country in which the value of goodwill of 734.0m, and the CGU operates for the growth rate used beyond the period covered by the plan.
Although inherent uncertainties exist in any long term forecasting exercise, based Headroom is 356.3m: on the audit procedures performed, we found that the directors judgements were The CGU with the least headroom in supported by reasonable assumptions.
For all CGUs, with the exception of one, percentage terms.
This CGU has with acarrying value of goodwill of 58.0m, it would require significant downside agoodwill balance of 58.0m and changes before amaterial impairment was required.
For that one CGU, we found limitedheadroom of 4.6m.
that reasonably foreseeable changes in key assumptions could result in amaterial impairment charge.
We assessed whether the Groups disclosures regarding the extent to which changes in key assumptions would need to change for the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying value of goodwill, in particular in relation to those CGUs with the lowest percentage headroom.
We determined that these disclosures appropriately draw attention to the significant areas of judgement.
indd 86 07 03 2016 04:33 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 87 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Development costs and programme participation costs impairment assessments Refer also to note 19 page 116 The Group holds significant amounts We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts and the process by which ofdevelopment costs 408.4m and they were drawn up, and tested the integrity of the underlying discounted cash programme participation costs 267.6m flow model.
In respect of the programme impairment assessments tested we: on the balance sheet.
These intangible Agreed the fleet forecast data up to 2030 used in calculating the programme assets are subject to impairment testing at forecast cash flow to external market forecasts, and corroborated any the individual asset programme level, significant deviations applied by the directors to supporting evidence.
atleast annually and, where headroom Weassessed fleet forecasts used beyond the period covered by the external islimited or if events or changes in market forecasts, considering average aircraft lives and trend analysis and circumstances indicate the carrying value considered them to be reasonable: may not be recoverable, more frequently.
Agreed the sales price per part to customer contract and did not identify An impairment charge of 6.4m has been anymaterial exceptions in these tests: and recorded against these balances in the Tested the discount rates, by comparing key inputs, where relevant, to current year.
Our audit focused on the risk externally derived data or data for comparable listed organisations.
We used that the carrying value of these intangible our specialists in assessing the overall discount rates used, and observed assets could be overstated.
them to be within areasonable range.
We focused our audit procedures on those Although inherent uncertainties exist in any long term forecasting exercise, programmes against which the directors basedon the audit procedures performed, we found that these judgements were have recorded an impairment provision and supported by reasonable assumptions.
those with limited headroom or significant carrying value.
The key assumptions assessed were: the estimated aircraft volumes fleetforecast : the period over which future cash flowsare forecast: the sales price per part: and the discount rate applied to futurecashflows.
Environmental provisions Refer also to note 31 page 126 The Group has liabilities of 111.0m Our work on the valuation of environmental liabilities comprised the following: relating to environmental matters.
We obtained the cost estimates and reports prepared by the Groups external The environmental matters primarily environmental consultants for the most significant sites.
We assessed the relateto known exposures arising from consistency of the cost estimates year on year and the level of costs incurred environmental investigation and remediation compared to the prior year estimates to assess the historical accuracy of of anumber of manufacturing sites in the US the estimates and understand changes to the scope of remediation plans.
where the Group has been identified as Thechanges in scope have been appropriately reflected in the provision: apotentially responsible party under US We assessed the competence and objectivity of the Groups external law.
The liabilities are based on subjective environmental consultants, confirming that they are qualified and affiliated judgements as to the estimated clean-up with the appropriate industry bodies in the respective local territory, and cost and length of time that operating and areindependent of the Group: and monitoring of the site isrequired.
We reconciled the cost estimates and reports to the provision recorded and The Group has separately recognised gained an understanding of all significant adjustments applied by the directors insurance receivables of 80.1m, in relation such as differences in the operating and monitoring period and the application to these environmental matters.
We focused of additional provision for incremental costs.
We assessed the reasonableness on the required recognition criteria being of these, including reviewing historical data where appropriate and consider met and recoverability of these receivables.
the provision to be supported by reasonable assumptions.
Our work on the valuation of insurance receivables comprised the following: We obtained the insurance policies to confirm the coverage limits: We obtained confirmation from the insurer of the claims and settlements todate, and assessed the extent of insurance coverage against the known exposures, including the likelihood of reimbursement: and We obtained evidence of the insurers financial position to assess their ability to meet the policy obligations.
The recognition of the insurance receivable issupportable.
indd 87 07 03 2016 04:33 88 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition under long term contract accounting primarily in the Groups energy business Refer also to note 5 pages 105 We focused on the recognition of revenue Our work on the revenue recognised under long term contract accounting where long term contract accounting comprised the following: is used, due to the application by the We tested the calculation of percentage of completion, which included testing directors of estimates and judgements in the costs incurred and recorded against the contract to invoice or other determining the amount of revenue to be supporting evidence and agreeing the total contract costs to cost summaries.
We re-performed the percentage of completion calculation, confirming that The Groups long term contract accounting the revenue recognised was accurate based on the total contract value as is primarily concentrated in its energy perthe signed contract or purchase order.
We found no material exceptions business which contracts to manufacture inthese tests: printed circuit heat exchangers.
These We assessed the estimates of costs to complete for significant contracts, comprise the majority of the Groups obtaining an understanding of the performance and status of the contracts long term contract accounting revenue through discussion with contract project managers, and where appropriate, of 66.7m.
The recognition of revenue corroborated explanations by examination of evidence, such as customer is largely dependent on the estimated correspondence and receipt of milestone payments.
Further we evaluated percentage of completion of each thehistorical accuracy of the estimates of total contract costs.
We found that contract, which is determined based on these estimates were supportable and we identified asatisfactory degree of the proportion of contract costs incurred historical estimation accuracy: and to date compared to the estimated total contract costs.
We examined any loss making contracts and considered low margin contracts to determine the level of provisioning required.
This included assessing As these contracts may span reporting the actual profit or loss achieved on contracts that completed in the year periods, changes in the estimate of compared to the forecast position.
total contract costs or the inappropriate recording of costs around the year end could result in revenue being recorded inthe incorrect period.
Retirement benefit obligation liabilities Refer also to note 33 pages 128 to 132 The Group has retirement benefit We evaluated the assumptions made in relation to the valuation of the liabilities, obligations with gross liabilities of with input from our actuarial specialists.
In particular we: 1,078.6m, which are significant in the Agreed the discount and inflation rates used to our internally developed context of the overall Group balance sheet.
benchmarks, based on externally derived data and comparable organisations: The valuation of retirement benefit Compared assumed mortality rates to national and industry averages: obligations requires significant levels ofjudgement and technical expertise, Assessed the assumption for salary increases against the companys historical including the use of actuarial experts trend and expected future outlook: and in selecting appropriate assumptions.
Assessed the competence and objectivity of the Groups external specialists, Smallchanges in anumber of the key confirming they are qualified and affiliated with the appropriate industry assumptions used to value the Groups bodies in the respective local territory.
retirement benefit obligation, including salary increases, inflation, discount rates Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the assumptions used by the and mortality could have amaterial impact directors were reasonable.
on the calculation of the liability.
indd 88 07 03 2016 04:33 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 89 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Provisions for uncertain tax positions Refer also to note 14 page 112 to 113 Judgements have to be made by the In conjunction with our internal UK and international tax specialists we: directors on the tax treatment of anumber Evaluated the process by which the directors calculated each tax exposure and of transactions in advance of the ultimate assessed whether the assumptions they have used, in conjunction with their tax determination being certain.
advisors, in developing the estimated exposure, provided asupportable and This is due to the complexity of the Groups reasonable basis to calculate the provision for uncertain tax positions: legal structure including multiple legal Considered any tax opinions or other tax advice the Group had received from entities, the number of tax jurisdictions its tax advisors in relation to the exposures identified to determine that the primarily the UK and US in which treatment is consistent with the advice obtained.
We also considered the the Group operates, the complexity of evidence of recent tax audits and external tax cases which may have an impact international tax legislation and the on existing tax exposures: changing tax environment.
In addition uncertainty arises from intergroup Assessed and formed our own views on the key judgements with respect to transactions relating to goods, services open and uncertain tax positions and concluded that the judgements made by and internal financing.
the directors were materially consistent with our own views in respect of the significant tax exposures: and Where the amount of tax payable or recoverable is uncertain, the Group Evaluated and concluded that the liabilities and potential exposures were establishes provisions based on the appropriately disclosed in the financial statements.
directors judgement of the probable The directors judgements in respect of the Groups position on uncertain tax amount of the liability, or expected items are supportable and reasonable in the context of the information currently amounts recoverable.
There is arisk available to them and no material matters were identified by our work that the that the conclusion of the appropriate directors had not adequately reflected in their estimate.
taxtreatment with tax authorities is at an amount materially different to the amount provided for.
How we tailored the audit scope afurther9 reporting units, based on their size or risk.
Senior We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed members of the Group engagement team visited all of these enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial reporting units, with the exception of one, for which anumber statements as awhole, taking into account the geographical of conference calls were held, to review the work undertaken structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, by component auditors and assess the audit findings.
The and the industry in which the Group operates.
Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and anumber of complex items, prepared by the head office The Groups accounting process is structured around alocal finance function, were audited by the Group engagement finance function in each of the Groups reporting units.
These included goodwill, other intangible assets, functions maintain their own accounting records and controls derivative financial instruments and related hedge accounting, although transactional processing and certain controls for retirement benefit obligations, environmental and contractual some reporting units are performed at the Groups shared provisions, share based payments and central adjustments service centres and report to the head office finance team raised as part of the consolidation process.
These audit through an integrated consolidation system.
procedures together with those performed on the 10 reporting In establishing the overall Group audit strategy and plan, we units accounted for 63% of Group profit before tax and 84% of determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the Group total assets.
We also performed specified procedures reporting units by the Group engagement team and by component on 8 reporting units to address specific risk characteristics auditors from other PwC network firms.
Where the work was or to provide sufficient overall Group coverage of particular performed by component auditors, we determined the level financial statement line items, principally in relation to of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those revenue and provisions.
In addition to the work performed reporting units so as to be able to conclude whether sufficient at the in scope reporting units, there is asubstantial amount appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as abasis for our of work performed at the consolidated level.
As aresult of opinion on the Group financial statements as awhole.
its structure and size, the Group also has alarge number of small reporting units that have an immaterial profit before For each reporting unit we determined whether we required tax but, in aggregate, make up amaterial portion of its profit an audit of their complete financial information full scope before taxation and total assets.
These small reporting units or whether specified procedures addressing specific risk are covered by the work that we perform at the consolidated characteristics or particular financial statement line items level, whereby we perform analytical review procedures.
Those where afull scope audit was Asignificant proportion of these remaining reporting units not required included the largest reporting unit Meggitt Aircraft selected for local procedures were subject to this analysis of Braking Systems in Akron, determined as individually year on year movements, at alevel of disaggregation to enable financially significant because it contributes more than 15% afocus on higher risk balances and unusual movements.
indd 89 07 03 2016 04:33 90 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued Those not subject to analytical review procedures were Other required reporting individually, and in aggregate, immaterial.
This gave us the Consistency of other information evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements Companies Act 2006 opinion as awhole.
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report Materiality and the Directors report for the financial year for which the The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of financial statements are prepared is consistent with the materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for financial statements.
These, together with qualitative considerations, ISAs UK & Ireland reporting helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, financial statement line items and disclosures and in in ouropinion: evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and information in the Annual Report is: We have no on the financial statements as awhole.
exceptions materially inconsistent with the Based on our professional judgement, we determined toreport.
information in the audited financial materiality for the financial statements as awhole as follows: statements: or apparently materially incorrect based Overall Group materiality 10 million 2014: 11 million.
on, or materially inconsistent with, our How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Rationale for benchmark Consistent with last year, we applied applied this benchmark, the application otherwise misleading.
of which is an accepted auditing the statement given by the directors on We have no practice.
We note reference by exceptions page 84, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 the directors of an alternative toreport.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code profit measure underlying profit theCode, that they consider the Annual before tax, and we specifically Report taken as awhole to be fair, consider the related adjustments balanced and understandable and provides and disclosure in reconciling to the information necessary for members to statutoryprofit before tax as part assess the Groups position.
business model and strategy is materially We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report inconsistent with our knowledge of the tothem misstatements identified during our audit above Group acquired in the course of 500,000 2014: 500,000 as well as misstatements below performing our audit.
that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for the section of the Annual Report on page We have no qualitative reasons.
exceptions 56, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the toreport.
Code, describing the work of the Audit Going concern Committee does not appropriately address Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors matters communicated by us to the statement, set out on page 84, in relation to going concern.
have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of theprincipal risks that would threaten the solvency or ifwe have anything material to add or to draw attention to liquidity of theGroup inrelation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material in ouropinion: to add or to draw attention to.
the directors confirmation on page 26 of We have nothing As noted in the directors statement, the directors have material to add the Annual Report, in accordance with concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern orto draw provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern attention to.
have carried out arobust assessment of basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to the principal risks facing the Group, remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, including those that would threaten its for at least one year from the date the financial statements business model, future performance, were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the solvency or liquidity.
directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
We have nothing However, because not all future events or conditions can be the disclosures in the Annual Report material to add predicted, these statements are not aguarantee as to the that describe those risks and explain orto draw Groups ability to continue as agoing concern.
how they are being managed attention to.
indd 90 07 03 2016 04:33 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 91 This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, andonly for the parent companys members as abody in in ouropinion: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act We have nothing the directors explanation on page 29 of 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these material to add the Annual Report, in accordance with opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other orto draw provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown attentionto.
they have assessed the prospects of the or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed Group, over what period they have done by our prior consent in writing.
so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as What an audit of financial statements involves to whether they have areasonable An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and expectation that the Group will be able disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give to continue in operation and meet its reasonable assurance that the financial statements are liabilities as they fall due over the period freefrom material misstatement, whether caused by fraud of their assessment, including any orerror.
This includes an assessment of: related disclosures drawing attention whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the toany necessary qualifications Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied orassumptions.
and adequately disclosed: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates directors statement that they have carried out arobust made by the directors: and assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering directors judgements against available evidence, forming the directors process supporting their statements: our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the checking that the statements are in alignment with the financial statements.
relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired We test and examine information, using sampling and other byusin the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary toreport having performed our review.
to provide areasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
Weobtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness Adequacy of information and explanations received ofcontrols, substantive procedures or acombination of both.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information information in the Annual Report to identify material and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge Directors remuneration acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to become aware of any apparent material misstatements or you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company Corporate governance statement financial statements of Meggitt PLC for the year ended Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of 31 December 2015 and on the information in the Directors the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and theaudit Our responsibilities and those of the directors Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of directors for and on behalf of  LLP responsibilities set out on pages 83 to 84, the directors are Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and London for being satisfied that they give atrue and fair view.
22 February 2016 Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards forAuditors.
