Melrose Industries PLC Financials 84 Annual Report 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC Opinion on financial statements of Melrose Industries PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and the Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated and Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the related notes 1 to 30 to the consolidated financial statements and the related notes 1 to 8 to the Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report on page 27.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 29 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 30 to 35 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 27 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Financials Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 85 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Accounting for the disposal of Elster During the year, the Group completed the disposal of the Elster We obtained and read the sale and purchase agreement for the transaction businesses, together with the FKI UK and McKechnie UK pension plans in order to understand the terms on which the disposal had been made.
together the disposal group to Honeywell International Inc. recording a profit on disposal of 1,256.3 million.
We tested managements calculation of the gain on disposal by agreeing the calculation to the terms of the sale and purchase agreement, where The accounting for this transaction is considered to be a risk due to applicable, and the net assets disposed and profit recorded in the period the non-recurring and significant size of the transaction and the quantum to the underlying audit work performed on the disposal group.
We have of the gain on disposal.
Additionally, the risk of material misstatement also recalculated the cumulative translation loss arising on disposal.
identified and discussed below relating to provisions was also applicable to the disposal group.
We traced the consideration received in cash to the completion statement and to the bank statement and agreed a sample of disposal costs to Note 9 within the financial statements includes full disclosure of the profit supporting documentation such as invoices in order to determine that for the year from discontinued operations.
they were costs directly attributable to the disposal.
Provisions Legal, environmental, restructuring, property, incentive scheme related We challenged the assumptions underlying the recognition and valuation and warranty provisions as at 31 December 2015 totalled 30.0 million of provisions through checking and verifying inputs used to calculate the within the continuing Group and a further 75.7 million of provisions provisions, including review of the nature and timings of formal restructuring were disposed of with Elster on 29 December 2015 2014: 172.8 million plans, review of third party correspondence, discussion with the Groups across the total Group.
lawyers, applicability of relevant laws and regulations and review of agreements.
Given the nature of the Groups operations, the recognition and valuation of the expected outcome of these provisions requires the Further, we assessed the level of historical warranty claims and obtained exercise of management judgement, which is often dependent on the the specific warranty terms and conditions provided in order to ascertain actions of third parties, the specific circumstances pertaining to each whether the warranty provisions held were sufficient to cover all obligations provision obligation and are generally outside the control of the Group.
in existence at the year-end within the continuing business and at the The use of estimates gives rise to inherent subjectivity in the amounts disposal date within the disposal balance sheet, in light of known claims recorded in the financial statements.
and standard warranty periods provided.
Note 3 includes this as one of the significant accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and note 20 includes further details on the provisions.
Exceptional items The presentation and consistency of costs and income within exceptional A sample of exceptional items, including all material items, have been items is a key determinant in the assessment of the quality of the Groups agreed to source documentation and evaluated by the component and underlying earnings.
The exceptional operating costs and exceptional Group audit teams as to their nature in order to assess whether they are in finance costs for the year ended 31 December 2015 are 7.9 million line with the Groups accounting policy, and also to assess consistency of and 13.1 million respectively for the continuing Group.
managements application of the policy with previous accounting periods.
Note 2 includes the Groups accounting policy for exceptional items We also assessed whether the disclosures within the financial statements and notes 6 and 7 include further details on the exceptional items.
provide sufficient detail for the reader to understand the nature of these items.
Melrose Industries PLC Financials 86 Annual Report 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangibles The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets excluding computer We challenged the reasonableness of the assumptions which underpin software and development costs of the Energy cash-generating unit managements forecasts with reference to the recent and historical CGU as at 31 December 2015 is 271.8 million 2014: 285.3 million.
trading performance of the Energy CGU, as well as the current order book.
We have also reviewed historical financial performance of the business Management perform an impairment review on an annual basis units compared with the original forecasts to evaluate the accuracy of and whenever an indication of impairment is identified.
risk of material misstatement exists as a result of the application of management judgement and estimation in performing the impairment Our procedures included consulting with our valuation specialists to reviews, in particular in relation to the forecasting of future cash flows, assess the discount rate applied to future cash flows and benchmarking the perpetual growth rate and the selection of an appropriate discount assumptions such as the perpetual growth rate and discount rate rate.
This risk relates only to the Energy CGU in light of the impairment to external macro-economic and market data.
review undertaken on the disposal group immediately before the classification as held for sale in line with IFRS 5.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the assets to be impaired This is included in note 3 as one of the significant accounting judgements by performing sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions, we considered and key sources of estimation uncertainty and note 12 includes more the likelihood of such a movement in those assumptions arising.
details on goodwill and intangibles.
We have reviewed the disclosures included by management in relation to the reasonable possible change and are satisfied that these are appropriate.
Accounting for the disposal of Elster has been included as a risk in the current year following the completion of the sale of the Elster disposal group during 2015.
Our prior year audit report also included a further risk relating to taxation which is not included in our report in the current year.
Following the disposal of Elster, this risk has been re-assessed and is not considered to be one of those which has had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and direction of the efforts of the engagement team.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 58 to 60.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 11 million 2014: 11 million, which is 4.6% of profit before exceptional costs, exceptional income, one-off items within discontinued operations, intangible asset amortisation and tax from continuing and discontinued operations 2014: 5.2% of profit before exceptional costs, exceptional income, intangible asset amortisation and tax from continuing operations and below 1% 2014: below 1% of equity.
We use profit before exceptional costs, exceptional income, one-off items within discontinued operations, intangible asset amortisation and tax to provide a stable basis for materiality that reflects the focus of the users of the financial statements.
This excludes the effect of exceptional items, as these can be volatile, and the amortisation of acquired intangibles, as excluding the relatively high amortisation charge, given the acquisitive nature of the Group, provides a more comparable measure with similar organisations and is consistent with the profit measure most relevant to analysts and investors.
The use of profit before exceptional costs, exceptional income, one-off items within discontinued operations, intangible asset amortisation and tax from continuing and discontinued operations is an updated approach compared to 2014 where we used the headline profit before tax from continuing operations only.
The revised approach reflects the size of the Elster businesses reported as discontinued operations within the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Financials Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 87 We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 250,000 2014: 250,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The Groups 79 2014: 78 locations are organised into the continuing Energy division and the Elster discontinued operations, which were previously disclosed as three divisions as described in the Business review on pages 10 and 11 of this Annual Report 2014: All four of these divisions were part of the continuing Group.
Our Group audit scope focused primarily on audit work at 22 locations 2014: 29, of which four relate to businesses which form part of the continuing Group and a further 18 locations covered operations within the discontinued group.
The change in the number of locations reflects the scale of the discontinued operations and our risk assessment in the current year.
Additionally, the number of locations was higher in the prior year due to the non-statutory audits performed that year of certain of the Companys businesses.
The extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and on the materiality of the Groups business operations at these locations.
Continuing Group In respect of the continuing Group, all four locations were subject to a full audit 2014: four.
These four locations accounted for 86% of the continuing Groups revenue and 93% of the total continuing Groups headline operating profit and divisional costs before central costs.
The work performed at these four locations together with the work performed centrally by the Group audit team accounted for 98% of the Groups net assets.
Our work at the four locations forming part of the continuing business was performed to local statutory materiality which ranged between 0.4 million and 1.3 million.
In 2014, these four locations accounted for 86% of the revenue and 94% of the headline operating profit and divisional costs before central costs of the Energy division.
Discontinued operations For the discontinued Elster operations, 12 locations were subject to a full audit 2014: 19, five were subject to specified audit procedures 2014: six and one 2014: nil was subject to specified audit procedures on the revenue balance.
The 18 discontinued locations subject to full audit, specified audit procedures and specified audit procedures on the revenue balance accounted for 74% of discontinued revenue and 71% of discontinued operating profit and divisional costs before central costs, one-off costs, one-off income and intangible asset amortisation.
The work performed at these locations together with the work performed centrally by the Group audit team accounted for 98% of the disposed net assets at 29 December 2015.
Our work and audit procedures at the 18 discontinued locations were performed at lower levels of materiality determined by reference to the relative scale of the business concerned and ranged between 0.1 million and 4.4 million.
In 2014, the 25 Elster locations subject to a full audit or specified audit procedures accounted for 87% of the revenue and 86% of the operating profit and divisional costs before central costs, one-off costs, one-off income and intangible asset amortisation of the three Elster segments.
Melrose Industries PLC Financials 88 Annual Report 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC continued Involvement in the work of component auditors and work performed at group level The senior statutory auditor or other senior members of the Group audit team visited eight of the largest locations for the audit 2014: 12.
More locations were visited in the prior year as part of the handover between lead audit partners, due to the acquisition of Eclipse and our risk assessment of the Group.
The senior statutory auditor also held a close meeting which covered all continuing and discontinued locations.
In years when we do not visit a component within our Group audit scope, we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment and review documentation of the findings from their work.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Financials Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 89 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Stephen Griggs, FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 3 March 2016
