Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT Auditors Report TO THE MEMBERS OF MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ONLY Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Materiality 14.3 million, representing 6.0% We have audited the financial statements of Merlin of profit before tax.
Entertainments plc for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2015 set out on pages 108 to 161.
In our opinion: Scope the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 75% of total profits before tax of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at arise in audited components.
26 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the 52 All other components are subject week period then ended: to specified audit procedures or the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in analysis at an aggregated level.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Key risks the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, valuation of non-current assets: and including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and revenue recognition.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Carrying value of non-current assets 2,475 million 2014: 2,414 million : Risk vs 2014: The context for our audit is that there has been: Refer to page 73 Audit Committee Report and pages 129 to a generally stable environment in which the Group has 131 accounting policy and financial disclosures.
operated, though parts of the Resort Theme Parks business have been affected by a major accident at Alton Towers in the The risk - A history of business combinations and the capital year, which increased the risk over carrying values of certain intensive nature of the business model means that the Group associated assets: has significant balances of goodwill, intangible assets and no significant changes to the Groups strategy and operations property, plant and equipment.
There is a risk that the future that our audit has had to consider.
The accesso admissions performance of these assets may lead to their carrying values system has not had a significant bearing on our audit this not being recoverable in full.
When impairment testing is year: and required there are inherent uncertainties in estimating the a slight, but not significant lowering in our assessed materiality value of assets to the business through discounted cash flows.
given the increasing public profile of the Group.
These uncertainties arise principally in the inputs used in forecasting future cash flows for example expected changes In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements in visitation at existing attractions, particularly where there the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on have been recent changes in the overall offering, new our audit, in decreasing order of significance were as set out and ongoing promotions or planned customer below.
While these risks are the same as in the prior year, we experience improvements.
have noted changes in the nature and emphasis of these risks and in our responses to them below.
102 OUR AUDIT APPROACH Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Merlin Entertainments plc only Revenue recognition 1,278 million 2014: 1,249 million : Uncertainty arises partly due to the unpredictable impact of Risk vs 2014: factors such as competition, the weather, and the political and Refer to page 73 Audit Committee Report and page 116 economic environment on trading performance but also as accounting policy.
the Groups new attractions are often in unproven locations.
Additionally and specifically in relation to the Resort Theme The risk - Merlins revenues come from a number of different Parks goodwill, events during the year at Alton Towers have channels, such as admissions ticketing income, annual passes, meant that previous trading patterns have been disrupted and spend in attractions on items such as food and drink and greater uncertainty exists over forecasting visitor numbers.
These revenues arise across a The reduced EBITDA since June 2015 and the risk that a large portfolio of sites that due to the different jurisdictions return to previous levels of performance may not be achieved in which the Group operates, and the Groups decentralised immediately has reduced valuation headroom.
This increases the nature, use a number of different revenue systems or system risk over this assets valuation.
There is also uncertainty around configurations, many of which require manual processes to the most appropriate rate at which to discount these expected transfer data to the finance systems.
Manual, rather than automated, processes across multiple Our response - Our audit procedures included, amongst decentralised income systems increase the risk of error.
others, an analysis of the Groups previous ability to forecast Such errors could arise through the under or over recording cash flows accurately and challenging the reasonableness of of outputs from these systems, or due to the need for current forecasts.
These current forecasts include assumptions the separate recording and appropriately timed release of such as the expected change in visitation and revenues arising deferred revenue, which arises when tickets are either bought from activities such as new and ongoing promotions and in advance or bought to allow access to multiple attractions.
customer experience improvements, as well as the response Although the low value of individual transactions means to specific events, including the accident at Alton Towers.
an individual error would be both difficult to detect and Our challenge of the forecasts included an assessment of the insignificant, the high volume of transactions mean Groups assumptions around these activities, including a systemic failure could lead to errors that aggregate comparison of expected changes against the past results of into material balances.
similar activities carried out by the Group.
In addition, specific to Alton Towers, we considered historic peer group data for Our response - As described in Our application of incident recovery rates and their applicability to Merlins materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit we business model and visitor market.
We corroborated major selected sites for audit to ensure appropriate coverage of assumed cost reductions to detailed plans and wherever key financial measures, including revenue.
This allowed us to assess the level of the risk inherent in the current cash flow forecasts.
At certain sites we performed testing of the general IT control environment of the systems used to record The data used by the Group to determine its earnings revenue, followed by testing of the processes to assess the multiple and calculate its discount rates was benchmarked completeness and accuracy of revenue entries arising from against market data, including publicly available analysts reports these systems.
At other sites, we performed testing of the and peer comparisons.
We were supported by our valuation design, implementation and operating effectiveness of manual specialists in this work.
We performed a sensitivity analysis of controls supporting these systems, including reconciliations the long term growth rate, discount rates and forecast cash of till records to revenue journal entries in the flows to show the effect of possible downside scenarios and accounting records.
considered the resulting headroom across the valuations, as well as the appropriateness of the related disclosures.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity This controls testing was supported by substantive of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in audit procedures including, amongst others, performing key assumptions appropriately reflected the risks inherent in reconciliations of total cash received to revenue recorded, the valuation of non-current assets.
predictive analytical procedures taking into account factors such as trends in seasonality, changes in pricing and visitation, confirmation of the appropriate timing of sales cut-off by checking the specific posting of revenue for days either side of the period end: and substantive testing of deferred and accrued revenue balances through agreeing back to ticketing system records and checking underlying calculations, corroboration of ticket usage terms to underlying contracts and predictive analytical procedures based on revenue movements.
103 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Merlin Entertainments plc only 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Scope of our work 12% 15% 8% 18% 8% 13% 13% 16% 7% 15% 12% Scoping and 20% 2015 2014 Coverage Assets 72% Assets 67% PBT 75% PBT 84% Revenue 75% Revenue 70% Key Audits for group reporting purposes Specified risk-focused audit procedures Analysis at aggregated group level All PBT percentages represent profits and losses before tax as calculated on an absolute basis, meaning the coverage is the proportion tested of total profits added to total losses of individual components.
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole Our coverage of profits has decreased year on year as the results was set at 14,300,000 for 2015 2014: 15,500,000.
This was at some larger sites particularly Alton Towers has reduced their determined with reference to a benchmark of profit before tax, relative contribution.
This is lower than the benchmark percentage used in 2014, because our view of the The remaining 25% of total profits and losses that made up increasing public profile of the Group meant we considered a Group profit before tax, 25% of total Group revenue and 28% of lower percentage to be appropriate.
We initially planned a higher total Group assets was represented by a large number of smaller materiality using 6.0% of budgeted profits and then lowered this reporting components.
None of these components individually in line with the Groups revised profit expectations following the represent more than 4.4% of any of the total profits or losses Alton Towers accident, adjusting our audit procedures accordingly.
that made up Group profit before tax, total Group revenue or total Group assets.
We obtained further coverage by performing We agreed with the Audit Committee that following this revision specified risk-focused audit procedures over the reasonableness to materiality, we would report all corrected and uncorrected of the financial result and position at 17 of these reporting misstatements identified through our audit with a value in components covering a further 7% of total profits or losses that excess of 715,000 2014: 750,000, in addition to other audit made up Group profit before tax.
We have refined our scoping misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted compared to the approach we have followed in the past to reporting on qualitative grounds.
include more Midway attractions as, although each site tends to be relatively small, this is an area where the Group is growing via We audited 75% 2014: 84% of the total profits and losses that the roll out of new attractions.
We adjusted the sites selected for these procedures during the course of our work in response to a made up Group profit before tax, 75% 2014: 70% of total change in perceived risk resulting from findings of Merlins Internal Group revenue and 72% 2014: 67% of total Group assets.
For the remaining components, analysis at an This included the audit, for group reporting purposes, of the aggregated level was performed to re-examine our assessment financial information of certain components.
It also included audit that there were no significant risks of material misstatement procedures on finance costs and assets arising on consolidation: within these components.
the total of these balances were audited at group level.
Audits for group reporting purposes, including those performed by the Group audit team, were performed at components in the following locations: UK, USA, Australia, Denmark, Germany, Italy, Hong Kong and China.
104 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Merlin Entertainments plc only Profit before tax Materiality 237 million 14.3 million 14.3 million Whole financial statements materiality 4.5 million Range of component materiality 0.44 million to 4.5 million 0.715 million Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee The Group audit team carried out audits for group reporting Materiality of the Group financial statements purposes of the financial information of components covering The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the 39% of the total profits and losses that made up Group profit key reporting components of the Group were all performed before tax, including the only individually financially significant to local materiality levels.
These local materiality levels were set component, Merlin Attractions Operations Limited.
The Group individually for each component by the Group audit team and audit team also undertook all audit procedures of certain total ranged from 440,000 to 4,500,000 having regard to the Group account balances as mentioned above, gaining coverage mix of size and risk profile of the Group across components.
over a further 6% of the total profits and losses that made up Detailed audit and specified procedure instructions were sent to Group profit before tax.
The largest component audited by a component auditors.
These instructions covered the significant component audit team represented 12% of the total profits audit areas that should be addressed by these audits, which and losses that made up Group profit before tax.
included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above, and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited three key component locations in Hong Kong, China and Australia, which included assessing the audit risk and strategy.
Teleconferences were also held with these component auditors and all key reporting components that were not visited.
During these meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, with any further work required by the Group audit team then performed by the component auditor.
105 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Merlin Entertainments plc only 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Companies Act 2006 is unmodified you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the In our opinion: parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be not been received from branches not visited by us: or audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the parent Company financial statements and the part of the the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in the information given in the Strategic Report and the agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by Directors Report for the financial year for which the law are not made: or financial statements are prepared is consistent with the we have not received all the information and explanations financial statements.
we require for our audit: or information given in the Corporate Governance Statement a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared set out on pages 58 to 65 with respect to internal control and by the Company.
risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: with the financial statements.
the Directors statement, set out on page 100, in relation to going concern and longer term viability: and 5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page principal risks 58 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have specified for our review.
nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors statement of longer term viability on page 42, We have nothing to report in respect of the above concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based responsibilities.
on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Group continuing in operation over the four years to 2019: or Scope and responsibilities the disclosures in note 1.1 of the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
Statement set out on page 101, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of which we are required to report by exception the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you www.
This report is made if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject identified other information in the annual report that contains a to important explanations and disclaimers regarding material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial our responsibilities, published on our website at statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a which are otherwise misleading.
incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of In particular, we are required to report to you if: this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis we have identified material inconsistencies between the of our opinions.
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and Hugh Green Senior Statutory Auditor understandable and provides the information necessary for for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or Chartered Accountants the section of the annual report describing the work of the Gateway House, Tollgate Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters Chandlers Ford communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Southampton SO53 3TG 24 February 2016 106 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Table of contents PRIMARY STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 108 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 109 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 110 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 111 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 112 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 113 SECTION 1 - BASIS OF PREPARATION SECTION 2 - RESULTS FOR THE YEAR 2.1 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 115 2.2 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 118 2.3 FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS 118 2.4 TAXATION 120 2.5 EARNINGS PER SHARE 124 SECTION 3 - OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 3.1 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 125 3.2 GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 127 3.3 IMPAIRMENT TESTING 129 3.4 WORKING CAPITAL 131 3.5 PROVISIONS 133 SECTION 4 - CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING 4.1 NET DEBT 134 4.2 INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS 134 4.3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 135 4.4 LEASE OBLIGATIONS 139 4.5 EQUITY AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 141 4.6 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS 142 SECTION 5 - OTHER NOTES 5.1 INVESTMENTS 145 5.2 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 145 5.3 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 147 5.4 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 148 5.5 NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 149 5.6 ULTIMATE PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION 149 5.7 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 149 5.8 SUBSIDIARY AND JOINT VENTURE UNDERTAKINGS 150 107
