Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc Our audit approach Report on the Group financial Overview statements Our opinion Materiality Overall Group materiality: $10.0m which represents In our opinion, Micro Focus International approximately 5% of profit before plcs Group financial statements the tax and exceptional items.
financial statements : Audit scope Our work on the historic Micro Focus Group defined hereafter give a true and fair view of the state of as Base Micro Focus was conducted at the Groups head office the Groups affairs as at 30 April 2015 location in the UK, supplemented with a visit to its US head and of its profit and cash flows for the office in Rockville, Maryland similar to prior years.
year then ended: As The Attachmate Group Inc. s TAG finance function is in have been properly prepared in separate locations from that of Base Micro Focus, local teams accordance with International Financial in the US and Ireland audited the primary business components Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted of TAG, with the Group audit team visiting these locations by the European Union: and a number of times both to direct and supervise the work of these local teams and to make sure that we had a full and have been prepared in accordance with comprehensive understanding of the results of their work the requirements of the Companies Act particularly insofar as it related to the identified areas of focus.
2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In total, locations where we performed audit work accounted What we have audited for 72% of the Group cost base and 70% of Group revenues.
Micro Focus International plcs financial Areas of focus Revenue recognition.
the Consolidated statement of financial position as at 30 April 2015: Fair value of acquisition accounting.
the Consolidated statement of Taxation.
comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated statement of cash The scope of our audit and our areas The risks of material misstatement that had flows for the year then ended: of focus the greatest effect on our audit, including We conducted our audit in accordance the allocation of our resources and effort, the Consolidated statement of changes with International Standards on Auditing are identified as areas of focus in the table in equity for the year then ended: UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific the accounting policies: and We designed our audit by determining areas in order to provide an opinion on the materiality and assessing the risks of material financial statements as a whole, and any the notes to the financial statements, misstatement in the financial statements.
In comments we make on the results of our which include other explanatory particular, we looked at where the directors procedures should be read in this context.
made subjective judgments, for example in This is not a complete list of all risks respect of significant accounting estimates identified by our audit.
Certain required disclosures have been that involved making assumptions and presented elsewhere in the Annual Report considering future events that are inherently and Accounts the Annual Report, rather uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also than in the notes to the financial statements.
addressed the risk of management override These are cross-referenced from the of internal controls, including evaluating financial statements and are identified whether there was evidence of bias by the as audited.
directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 78 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Revenue recognition Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to notes 1 and 2 pages 95 Our testing focused on the larger and more complex revenue transactions throughout and 96 the year and to sales made around the year end to check revenue was accounted for in the correct period.
In aggregate the contracts tested accounted for about 23% of total We focused on this area because the Licence revenue.
allocation of revenue to each component of a sale Licence, Maintenance, In respect of sales contracts tested, we checked that the fair value allocation of revenue Subscription and Consulting, when between the Licence, Maintenance, Subscription and Consulting components at deal sold together in a bundle required the inception was in line with the terms of sales contracts and Group accounting policies.
We assessed This included considering any unusual terms in sales contracts and the period during this as a greater risk in larger transactions, which Maintenance is to be provided to the customer.
We tested the basis upon which where there is increased likelihood of management calculate the fair value attributable to the components of revenue by unusual sales arrangements containing reference to the sales price achieved when components are sold on a standalone basis.
For all contracts, we tested whether managements calculations of the revenue Given that Licence revenue is generally recognized incorporated all relevant contract terms and an appropriate split of total recognized up front in full, whereas revenue between different contractual elements.
Maintenance and Subscription is spread over the duration of the contract term, In order to assess where processes and controls may have been circumvented and the risk of there being inappropriate inappropriate manual adjustments made to revenue, we used data analysis techniques allocation of revenue also becomes more to identify: relevant in the period immediately prior to the year end.
We therefore focused revenue postings in certain significant reporting units not generated by cash or trade on the risk of inappropriate revenue receivables or a release from deferred income: and allocation in the period immediately prior to the year end.
manual journal entries impacting revenue with unexpected account combinations across all significant reporting units.
We also addressed how processes and controls may have been circumvented and Having identified those transactions, we traced a sample to documentary evidence that, manual adjustments made to revenue.
we found without exception, supported their validity.
Fair value of acquisition accounting Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to notes 9, 10 and 39 pages Our testing focused on the valuation of the larger and more judgmental fair value 101 to 102, 103 and 127 to 130 adjustments that were recorded.
TAG was acquired on 20 November Particular adjustments we tested were: 2014 for consideration satisfied in shares of $1,386m.
At the acquisition date, Intangible assets intangible assets $1,127.6m represent customer relationships, the carrying value of its net liabilities trade names and technology.
The directors obtained external valuations for the acquired totalled $501m.
Using our own valuations expertise, we evaluated the choice of valuation methodologies used for each type of asset to check that the methodology was Adjustments to record the assets and consistent with market practice.
We also examined the key assumptions used as inputs liabilities at fair value as is required by to the models to assess whether they were consistent with our understanding of the accounting standards increased the value business, its historical performance and the markets in which TAG operates.
These of the acquired net liabilities by $226m.
assumptions included profit and revenue forecasts, discount rates and royalty rates.
As a result goodwill totalling $2,113m We found that the key valuation assumptions lay within our expected range and that was established.
We focused on the fair the valuation methodologies applied were appropriate.
value adjustments which included the creation of intangible assets, associated Deferred tax In accordance with the accounting framework, the creation of these deferred tax liabilities, and a reduction intangible assets resulted in the creation of an additional deferred tax liability of $260.3m to deferred income because the on acquisition.
We examined and are satisfied with the basis of the rate used to calculate determination of the fair value this liability.
This involved reference to the tax jurisdictions in which TAG operates, levels adjustments is judgmental in nature of business in those jurisdictions, and the manner in which profits are expected to be and these adjustments are also material.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79 Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc continued Fair value of acquisition accounting continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Deferred income Adjustments totalling $42.7m were recorded reducing the value of deferred income.
The purpose of this adjustment was to record the liability at the fair value for which it could be settled between knowledgeable willing parties in an arms length transaction.
We checked that the methodology used to calculate fair value was consistent with market practice for this type of transaction and found this to be the case.
We also tested the components of the calculation by tracing to supporting evidence including historical results for TAG and found that the assumptions management made were consistent with the evidence we obtained.
This reduction meant that there was $17.0m less revenue recognized in the post-acquisition period than there would have been if no adjustment had been made.
Restructuring Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to notes 3 and 24 pages 97 We checked and found that, at year end, there was a detailed formal plan for and 111 to 112 restructuring that was consistent with announcements made, and which indicated the establishment of a valid expectation in those affected.
The Group has a significant restructuring plan underway, in relation to the integration We selected a sample of individuals in respect of whom severance provisions of TAG.
As part of that plan, the Group had been recognized, focusing our testing on individuals for which larger provisions announced the proposed closures of a have been made.
For the sample selected, we checked and found that the provision number of properties primarily in the US and had been calculated using the correct salary data and in accordance with the the UK, and redundancies of employees communicated terms.
For certain members of senior management affected by across the Group.
This created the need for the severance program, precise levels of compensation have not yet been finalized.
provisions to be recorded in relation to In these instances we assessed the evidence to support the judgment made in severance costs associated with employees, determining the calculations that support the provision.
and onerous lease costs on vacated property.
In 2015 the charge in the Consolidated We tested the property provision by agreeing details of rental obligations to statement of comprehensive income relating underlying rental contracts for a selection of properties.
We assessed managements to this plan was $18.2m for property and assessment of surplus space by performing physical inspections of a sample of $30.7m for severance.
The provision held in properties to check that the levels of occupancy and activity correlated with the levels the Consolidated statement of financial of surplus space included in the provision calculations, which they did.
For properties position was $22.6m for onerous lease and that the Group expects to be sublet, we obtained evidence that the Group had dilapidations and $30.9m for restructuring engaged third parties in the active marketing of the properties: we compared the and integration.
period of assumed vacancy before sublet to what we observe more generally in the market place for the locations concerned: and we assessed whether the sub-let The estimate of severance costs that need income assumed was commensurate with rental rates observed in those local markets.
to be recognized in the financial statements We found managements estimates to be consistent with these observations.
involves the exercise of judgment around the value of future costs, and the extent to In order to test that the Group has made all the necessary provisions and not omitted which a constructive obligation has arisen.
any, we reconciled the Groups integration plans and the announcements made with The estimate of the onerous lease provisions is the components of the provisions recorded.
Our reconciliation did not identify also dependent on judgments in particular, significant amounts for which a provision had not been made.
where the directors intend to sub-let the property, the expected rental income and We tested the presentation of exceptional items by assessing whether the the time delay in securing a sub-tenant.
classification in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income is in line with the Groups accounting policy as set out on page 89, and whether the accounting In addition, the presentation of restructuring policy is consistent with IFRS as adopted in the EU.
We found no issues regarding costs in the Consolidated statement of the accounting policy or its application.
comprehensive income as exceptional expenses required additional consideration, as the classification of an expense as exceptional depends on judgments made by the directors in identifying such items.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as exceptional is important in order to maintain comparability of the results year on year.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 80 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Taxation Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to notes 6, 21 and 28 pages Due to the value of the tax balances inherited on acquisition of TAG our testing focused 99 to 100, 111 and 117 to 119 on the following areas: The acquisition of TAG created an Tax balances within the acquisition balance sheet of TAG including managements enlarged and more complex Group assessment of the fair value of uncertain tax positions.
structure, and included companies set up to accommodate the new debt facilities, Movement in the acquired tax balances to 30 April 2015. with the Group having an increased presence in jurisdictions that have more The accounting for uncertain tax positions adopted at year end, as well as how local complex tax legislation.
This brings with it tax rules have been reflected in the calculation of the year end current and deferred an increased complexity to calculating the tax balances.
correct current and deferred tax balances in accordance with local jurisdiction tax Additional provisioning associated with the Enlarged Group structure.
rules with a consequential increased risk of error.
In testing the above items we: At the date of acquisition TAG had a used our own tax expertise to evaluate the assessment and calculations performed by number of uncertain tax positions to management to estimate the provisions held in respect of uncertain tax positions.
To which the Group is now exposed.
do this, we assessed the provisions recognized in the financial statements using the outcome of prior tax audits conducted on the Group, correspondence between the Group and relevant tax authorities, the view of the Groups tax advisors, and our own experience in these areas.
We found the provision to be within an acceptable range.
identified local tax rules and considered how they impacted the calculation of current and deferred tax balances, including the impact on the income statement, in order to check the adequacy of the tax assets and liabilities recognized at the year end.
We found that the Group had reflected identified tax rules in their calculations.
examined the forecasts prepared by management to support the recoverability of tax losses inherited as part of the acquisition.
Based on our testing, we found there to be consistency between the assumptions on which the forecasts were based, and our understanding of the business and its historical performance.
reconciled, without identifying any material reconciling items, the current tax liability position through agreement of the opening position, agreement of prior year adjustments to the Groups tax correspondence, vouched cash payments and or refunds and agreement of the current tax credit or charge to the income statement.
used our local tax expertise in the UK, the US and Luxembourg to consider whether the judgments made by the Group in determining the current tax benefit arising from implementation of the new debt facilities were consistent with the local tax filings, related regulatory documents and advice given by the Groups tax advisors.
We found this to be the case.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81 Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc continued How we tailored the audit scope Materiality Other required reporting We tailored the scope of our audit to The scope of our audit was influenced by Consistency of other information ensure that we performed enough work to our application of materiality.
We set certain Companies Act 2006 opinion be able to give an opinion on the financial quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, In our opinion, the information given in the statements as a whole, taking into account together with qualitative considerations, Strategic Report and the Directors report the geographic structure of the Group, the helped us to determine the scope of our for the financial year for which the financial accounting processes and controls, and the audit and the nature, timing and extent of statements are prepared is consistent with industry in which the Group operates.
our audit procedures and to evaluate the the financial statements.
effect of misstatements, both individually The acquisition of TAG has led to a change and on the financial statements as a whole.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting in the composition of the overall Group, Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required with an increased number of business Based on our professional judgment, to report to you if, in our opinion: activities and transactions occurring within we determined materiality for the financial the US and Ireland.
The centralized function statements as a whole as follows: information in the We have no through which the Base Micro Focus controls Annual Report is: exceptions to and processes revenue transactions for the Overall Group $10.0m 2014: $7.6m.
report arising majority of Base Micro Focus reporting materiality materially inconsistent from this units has remained in place throughout with the information responsibility.
How we 5% of profit before tax the year.
in the audited determined it and exceptional items.
financial statements: Rationale for Consistent with last year, In establishing the overall approach to or benchmark we have applied this the Group audit, we assessed the audit applied benchmark, a generally significance of each reporting unit in the apparently materially accepted auditing practice, Group by reference to both its financial incorrect based on, or in the absence of significance and other indicators of audit materially inconsistent indicators that an alternate risk such as the complexity of operations with, our knowledge benchmark would be more and the degree of estimation and judgment of the Group acquired appropriate.
We also considered in the course of the changes to the overall Group as a result performing our audit: of the acquisition of TAG and where the We agreed with the Audit Committee that or key business activities and transactions we would report to them misstatements now reside.
identified during our audit above $0.5m otherwise misleading.
2014: $0.4m as well as misstatements the statement given by We have no Following this assessment, we determined below that amount that, in our view, the directors on page exceptions to that we needed, as we did last year, to focus warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
75, in accordance with report arising our audit work within Base Micro Focus on provision C. 1.1 of the UK from this the Groups centralized function.
As the Going concern Corporate Governance responsibility.
Group currently accounts separately for TAG, Under the Listing Rules we are required Code the Code, that and because the areas on which our Group to review the directors statement, set out they consider the Annual audit focused were predominantly in the on page 75, in relation to going concern.
Report taken as a whole acquired Group, we instructed PwC US We have nothing to report having to be fair, balanced and and PwC Ireland, as component auditors, performed our review.
understandable and to perform audits of financial information provides the information of the significant reporting units within that As noted in the directors statement, the necessary for members acquired Group.
We visited these locations a directors have concluded that it is appropriate to assess the Groups number of times to ensure we obtained a full to prepare the financial statements using the performance, business understanding of the operational activities, going concern basis of accounting.
The going model and strategy is and appropriately scoped risks and agreed concern basis presumes that the Group has materially inconsistent responses to those risks.
We also attended adequate resources to remain in operation, with our knowledge audit clearance meetings in these locations and that the directors intend it to do so, for of the Group acquired and took an active part in reviewing the work at least one year from the date the financial in the course of undertaken by PwC US and PwC Ireland on statements were signed.
As part of our audit performing our audit.
the areas of significant risk relevant to their we have concluded that the directors use the section of the We have no locations.
This, together with additional of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Annual Report on exceptions to procedures performed at the Group level page 43, as required report arising over the consolidation process gave us the However, because not all future events by provision C. 3.8 of from this evidence we needed for our opinion on or conditions can be predicted, these the Code, describing responsibility.
the financial statements as a whole.
statements are not a guarantee as to the work of the Audit the Groups ability to continue as a Committee does not In total, locations where we performed audit going concern.
appropriately address work accounted for 72% of the Groups cost matters communicated base and 70% of Group revenues.
by us to the Audit Committee.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 82 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information What an audit of financial statements Other matter Adequacy of information involves We have reported separately on the and explanations received An audit involves obtaining evidence about Company financial statements of Micro Under the Companies Act 2006 we are the amounts and disclosures in the financial Focus International plc for the year ended required to report to you if, in our opinion, statements sufficient to give reasonable 30 April 2015 and on the information in we have not received all the information assurance that the financial statements are the Directors Remuneration Report that and explanations we require for our audit.
free from material misstatement, whether is described as having been audited.
We have no exceptions to report arising caused by fraud or error.
This includes an from this responsibility.
assessment of: Directors remuneration whether the accounting policies are Under the Companies Act 2006 we appropriate to the Groups circumstances Andrew Paynter are required to report to you if, in our and have been consistently applied and Senior Statutory Auditor opinion, certain disclosures of directors adequately disclosed: for and on behalf of remuneration specified by law are not  LLP made.
We have no exceptions to report the reasonableness of significant Chartered Accountants and arising from these responsibilities.
accounting estimates made by the Statutory Auditors directors: and Reading Corporate governance statement 7 July 2015 Under the Listing Rules we are required the overall presentation of the to review the part of the Corporate financial statements.
Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions We primarily focus our work in these areas of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
by assessing the directors judgments We have nothing to report having against available evidence, forming our own performed our review.
judgments, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit We test and examine information, using Our responsibilities and those sampling and other auditing techniques, of the directors to the extent we consider necessary to As explained more fully in the Statement provide a reasonable basis for us to draw of directors responsibilities set out on conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence page 75, the directors are responsible for through testing the effectiveness of the preparation of the financial statements controls, substantive procedures or and for being satisfied that they give a true a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and Our responsibility is to audit and express non-financial information in the Annual an opinion on the financial statements in Report to identify material inconsistencies accordance with applicable law and ISAs with the audited financial statements and to UK & Ireland.
Those standards require identify any information that is apparently us to comply with the Auditing Practices materially incorrect based on, or materially Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
This report, including the opinions, has been If we become aware of any apparent prepared for and only for the Companys material misstatements or inconsistencies members as a body in accordance with we consider the implications for our report.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83
