ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Michael Page International plc Our opinion on the financial statements Overview of our audit approach In our opinion: Risks of material Revenue recognition Michael Page International plcs Group financial statements and misstatement Parent company financial statements the financial statements Accounting for Page Recruitment System give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the PRS parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Taxation matters groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: financial information of six components and the parent company financial statements have been properly audit procedures on specific balances for a prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European further seven components Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the The components where we performed full Companies Act 2006: and or specific audit procedures accounted for 88% of revenue, 82% of gross profit, 83% the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with of profit before tax and 81% of total assets the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We performed other audit procedures over the remaining 25 components What we have audited Michael Page International plcs financial statements comprise: Materiality Overall Gr oup materiality of 4.5m which represents 5% of profit before tax Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at Balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 31 December 2015 Our assessment of risk of material misstatement Consolidated income statement for the year then ended We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the Consolidated statement of allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts comprehensive income for the year of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed then ended the procedures below which were designed in the context of the Consolidated statement of Statement of changes in financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not changes in equity for the year equity for the year then ended express any opinion on these individual areas.
then ended Consolidated cash flow Cash flow statement for the statement for the year then ended year then ended Related notes 1 to 25 to the Related notes 1 to 25 to the financial statements financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
86 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 What we concluded to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Revenue recognition We updated our understanding of the revenue processes We concluded that revenue at all full scope and specific scope locations and tested key recognised in the year is materially Refer to the Audit Committee Report management controls around recognition and measurement of correct on the basis of our page 64 : Accounting policies page 99 : revenue at all the full scope and four of seven specific scope procedures performed both at and Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial locations.
group and by component audit Statements page 102. teams.
We selected a sample in all full scope and specific scope The Group has reported revenues of locations of permanent and temporary placement revenue 1.06 billion 2014: 1.05 billion and two transactions for detailed transaction testing to verify that significant revenue streams: permanent revenue had been appropriately recognised in the correct placement revenue and temporary period and to verify that the transaction occurred and was placement revenue.
recorded at the correct value.
We performed analytical For permanent placement revenue, there is procedures at all full scope and specific scope locations.
a risk around the timing of the recognition of We compared the level of actual permanent placement revenue as a contract may be agreed with revenue reversals, which occur as a result of non-completion a customer and candidate several months of contractual placements, to the provision recorded against in advance of the start of employment.
accrued income in the group financial statements to determine Consequently, there is a risk that revenue if the provision was appropriate.
recognition may occur before revenue recognition criteria have been met.
There We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over is also a risk that the placement will not be this risk area in 13 locations, which covered 88% of the risk taken up as agreed, which would result in amount.
the reversal of previously recorded revenue.
For all other locations which covered 12% of the risk amount, For temporary placement revenue, we performed audit procedures on a country by country basis revenue may be recognised when revenue to address the risk of an undetected material error occurring recognition criteria has not been met, in these components.
Such procedures included analytical namely an approved timesheet has not review of revenue and gross profit, and ratio analysis of key been submitted.
Revenue may also be performance indicators including revenue and gross profit per recorded at the incorrect rate.
The processes and group-wide controls for these can occur during the year or in particular locations are consistent with the rest of the Group.
around year end cut-off when an accrual is recorded for days worked prior to submission of the weekly timesheets.
Accounting for Page Recruitment We assessed the current status and future outlook of the No indicators of impairment were System PRS roll-out of the PRS operating system and considered if any identified.
indicators of potential impairment exist which had not been We concur with the revised useful Refer to the Audit Committee Report page considered by management.
life allocated to the PRS intangible 64 : Accounting policies page 99 : and We met with the key individuals involved in the global rollasset.
Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial out plan to understand the key progress milestones and Statements page 108.
We conclude that the PRS challenges to delivering against plan.
We considered the The net book value of this asset is 31.2 intangible asset balance at ability of the Group to deliver on the plan based on the Boards million 2014: 33.6 million.
31 December 2015 is materially demonstrable commitment to complete the roll-out in 2016 and correct.
The implementation and roll-out of the the significant progress made in the roll-out during 2015.
PRS intangible asset has been in progress We enquired about the use and benefits of the applications at for a number of years.
We consider the the full and specific scope locations in which PRS was rolledrisk around the accounting for the PRS out during the year.
We confirmed that the use and benefits of intangible asset to have decreased from the the applications are similar to the positive observations made prior year due to the significant progress in prior year for the United Kingdom and the United States rollmade in the roll-out in the current year.
We also viewed the upgraded websites on a sample basis The risk concerns the carrying value of the to confirm that these are now used by the locations where PRS intangible asset and whether any potential were rolled out during the year.
The Group extended the useful life of specific components of There is a risk that the PRS intangible the PRS intangible asset during the year.
We examined the asset is amortised over an inappropriate remaining useful life in comparison to the period over which useful life.
The Groups assessment of the future economic benefits are expected to be realised.
useful life requires judgement as to the We tested a sample of items capitalised in the year for future utilisation of the operating system compliance with IFRS and Group asset capitalisation policy.
Audit procedures in relation to the PRS intangible asset were The business also continues to capitalise performed by the group audit team, with the exception of costs in relation to the asset as the roll-out specific enquiries about the use and benefits of the applications is still in progress.
There is a risk that these being performed by our component teams at the full and costs are capitalised when they do not meet specific scope locations.
87 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 What we concluded to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Taxation matters With assistance from our international tax specialists, we We concluded that managements analysed and challenged the method, assumptions and judgements in relation to the Refer to the Audit Committee Report judgements used by management to determine the Groups potential risk around transfer page 64 : Accounting policies page 100 : transfer pricing reserve.
We challenged the tax exposures pricing are appropriate to not and Notes 8 and 17 of the Consolidated estimated by management along with enquiries, claims or result in a material misstatement.
Financial Statements pages 106 and 113. assessments made by tax authorities to date.
We conclude that managements PageGroup operates across a large number Additionally, our specialists used their knowledge and judgements in relation to deferred of jurisdictions and is subject to periodic experience of the application of international and local legislation tax asset recognition were challenges by local tax authorities on a to support our consideration of the appropriateness of the appropriate.
range of tax matters during the normal reserve determined by management.
course of business including transfer pricing.
Our audit procedures on the recognition of deferred tax assets included assessing and challenging the assumptions and We have focused on two matters relating judgements included in the future profit forecasts in respect of to the transfer pricing reserve and the the relevant components of the Groups long-term forecasts.
recognition of deferred tax assets.
We considered historical levels of taxable profits, Group Transfer pricing reserve: We consider managements investment strategy and growth forecasts, and the risk around transfer pricing to have consistency of the projections with other forecasts made by increased from the prior year due to transfer management and approved by the Board.
pricing being a continuing area of focus for We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in many tax authorities and subject to greater respect of transfer pricing and deferred tax assets.
The majority of our audit procedures were performed by the Recognition of deferred tax assets: This risk group audit team in relation to the two areas of focus.
concerns the judgements and estimates applied in the recognition of deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised losses and other temporary differences as supported by taxable profit forecasts in the relevant jurisdictions.
We consider the risk around the recognition of deferred tax assets to have decreased due to continued profitability in jurisdictions and states recognising a deferred tax asset.
In addition, off balance sheet deferred tax balances in jurisdictions that have become profitable are now recognised in full.
88 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 None of the remaining 25 components are individually greater than The scope of our audit 1.8% of the Groups revenue, 2.1% of the Groups gross profit, 3.8% of the Groups profit before tax, and 1.9% of the Groups Tailoring the scope total assets.
For these components, we performed other audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our procedures, including analytical review procedures on a countryallocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope by-country basis, obtaining an understanding of the group wide for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us entity level controls over all components, including the level of CEO, to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We CFO and other group management visits, oversight and review, take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and the scope of the annual Internal Audit programme and the and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business results of those visits to respond to any potential risks of material environment and other factors such as recent Internal audit results misstatement to the Group financial statements.
when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the audit We used gross profit as a measure to determine our group audit work performed.
scope in addition to revenue and profit before tax as this is a key measure used by management to determine the size of a component in relation to the Group.
13% 18% In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial 60% 53% statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, we selected Gross 13 of the 38 reporting components that represent the principal 27% Revenue business units within the Group.
profit Of the 13 components selected, we performed an audit of the 29% complete financial information of six components full scope components, which comprised the United Kingdom, France, China, Hong Kong, Australia and the Groups Head Office.
These were selected based on their size, with the exception of the Groups Head Office, which was selected based on risk 17% 19% characteristics.
For the remaining seven components specific 59% 56% scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific Profit accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the before Total assets financial statements either because of the size of these accounts 24% tax or their risk profile: Brazil, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, 25% Switzerland and the United States.
These 13 reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for: Full Scope Specific Scope Other procedures 88% 2014: 88% of the Groups revenue: components components 82% 2014: 82% of the Groups gross profit: 83% 2014: 79% of the Groups profit before tax: and 81% 2014: 83% of the Groups total assets.
Changes from the prior year Of this, the full scope components contributed: China, Hong Kong and Australia have been designated as full 60% 2014: 47% of the Groups revenue: scope components this year, whereas they were designated 53% 2014: 40% of the Groups gross profit: as specific scope locations in the prior year.
We have changed 59% 2014: 41% of the Groups profit before tax: and the designation in order to obtain greater quantitative full scope 56% 2014: 42% of the Groups total assets.
coverage of the Groups key metrics.
We do not perceive any additional risk in these components and no additional risk areas The specific scope components contributed: were discovered as a result of the increase in audit scope.
27% 2014: 41% of the Groups revenue 29% 2014: 42% of the Groups gross profit: Involvement with component teams 24% 2014: 38% of the Groups profit before tax: and In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we 25% 2014: 41% of the Groups total assets.
determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the Group audit team, or by The audit scope of these specific scope components may not have component auditors from other EY global network firms operating included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will under our instruction.
Of the six full scope components, audit have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for procedures were performed on one of these, being the Groups the Group.
Head Office, directly by the Group audit team.
For the largest full The remaining 25 components together represent: scope component, the United Kingdom, the component audit 13% of the Groups revenue: team included several senior members from the Group audit team, including the Group audit senior manager.
For the remaining four 18% of the Groups gross profit: full scope components and the seven specific scope components, 17% of the Groups profit before tax: and where the work was performed by component auditors, we 19% of the Groups total assets.
determined the appropriate level of group team involvement to 89 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The Group audit team followed a programme of planned visits The performance materiality set for each component is based that has been designed to ensure that a senior member of the on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group Group audit team visits at least three 2014: two of the full scope as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at components each year.
The number of full scope locations visited that component.
In the current year, the range of performance in the year has increased over the prior year as a result of the materiality allocated to components was 0.45m to 1.13m 2014: increase in designated full scope locations.
years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the Senior Statutory Auditor to the component teams performing the audit work for Reporting threshold the United Kingdom, France, China and Hong Kong components.
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the as being clearly trivial.
component team and any issues arising from their work and reviewing key audit working papers on risk areas, and attending the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to audit closing meeting with local management.
A visit to the newly them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.23m 2014: established shared service centre in Barcelona was undertaken 0.20m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as by the Group audit senior manager.
The purpose of this visit was differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted to obtain an understanding of the shared service centre SSC reporting on qualitative grounds.
operations, in relation to the countries now supported by the SSC.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the The Group audit team attended all four regional audit closing quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of meetings with regional management and the Group CFO, at which other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
all key areas of judgement were discussed and challenged.
The Scope of the audit of the financial statements Senior Statutory Auditor also attended a separate meeting with the regional CFO of the Asia Pacific region at which the performance An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and of the region and key audit risk areas were discussed.
The Asia disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Pacific region includes three of our full scope components.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an The Group audit team interacted regularly with the component assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and including the planning, post-interim and final stages, reviewed key have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in opinion on the Group financial statements.
the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies Our application of materiality with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material audit and in forming our audit opinion.
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for Materiality our report.
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Statement set out on page 85, the directors are responsible for Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied our audit procedures.
that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and We determined materiality for the Group to be 4.5 million 2014: express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with 3.9 million, which is 5% of profit before tax 2014: 5% profit applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and before tax and exceptional items.
We believe that profit before Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing tax is the principal consideration for stakeholders in assessing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the financial performance of the Group and in 2014 adjusted this This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in figure to exclude the impact of exceptional items which were nonaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. recurring.
There are no exceptional items in 2015.
Materiality has Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the increased year over year solely due to the increase in profit before companys members those matters we are required to state to tax 2014: profit before tax and exceptional items.
them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Performance materiality extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members The application of materiality at the individual account or balance as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level have formed.
the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% 2014: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 2.25m 2014: 1.95m.
90 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in We have no exceptions to reporting the annual report is: report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to reporting report.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no exceptions to requirements report.
the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 40, and longerterm viability, also set out on page 40: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
91 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Statement on the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add We have nothing reporting or to draw attention to in relation to: material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Iain Wilkie Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 9 March 2016 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Michael Page International plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
