Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc Directors remuneration Report on the Company Other required reporting Directors Remuneration report Consistency of other information financial statements Companies Act 2006 opinion Companies Act 2006 opinion Our opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors In our opinion, the information given in the In our opinion, Micro Focus International Remuneration report to be audited has been Strategic Report and the Directors Report plcs Company financial statements the properly prepared in accordance with the for the financial year for which the financial financial statements : Companies Act 2006. statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
give a true and fair view of the state of Other Companies Act 2006 reporting the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2015: Under the Companies Act 2006 we ISAs UK & Ireland reporting are required to report to you if, in our Under International Standards on Auditing have been properly prepared in accordance opinion, certain disclosures of directors UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland with United Kingdom Generally Accepted remuneration specified by law are not we are required to report to you if, in our Accounting Practice: and made.
We have no exceptions to report opinion, information in the Annual Report is: arising from this responsibility.
have been prepared in accordance with the materially inconsistent with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. information in the audited financial Responsibilities for the financial statements: or What we have audited statements and the audit Micro Focus International plcs financial Our responsibilities and those of apparently materially incorrect based statements comprise: the directors on, or materially inconsistent with, our As explained more fully in the Statement knowledge of the Company acquired in the Company balance sheet as at of directors responsibilities set out on page the course of performing our audit: or 30April 2015: 75, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and otherwise misleading.
the accounting policies: and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
We have no exceptions to report arising the notes to the financial statements, from this responsibility.
which include other explanatory Our responsibility is to audit and express information.
an opinion on the financial statements in Adequacy of accounting records and accordance with applicable law and ISAs information and explanations received Certain required disclosures have been UK & Ireland.
Those standards require Under the Companies Act 2006 we are presented elsewhere in the Annual Report us to comply with the Auditing Practices required to report to you if, in our opinion: and Accounts the Annual Report, Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
rather than in the notes to the financial we have not received all the information statements.
These are cross-referenced This report, including the opinions, has been and explanations we require for our from the financial statements and are prepared for and only for the Companys audit: or identified as audited.
members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act adequate accounting records have not The financial reporting framework that 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, been kept by the Company, or returns has been applied in the preparation of the in giving these opinions, accept or assume adequate for our audit have not been financial statements is applicable law and responsibility for any other purpose or to received from branches not visited by United Kingdom Accounting Standards any other person to whom this report is us: or United Kingdom Generally Accepted shown or into whose hands it may come Accounting Practice.
save where expressly agreed by our prior the financial statements and the part of consent in writing.
the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 132 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information What an audit of financial Other matter statements involves We have reported separately on the We conducted our audit in accordance Group financial statements of Micro Focus with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves International plc for the year ended obtaining evidence about the amounts 30 April 2015. and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor whether the accounting policies for and on behalf of are appropriate to the Companys  LLP circumstances and have been consistently Chartered Accountants and applied and adequately disclosed: Statutory Auditors Reading the reasonableness of significant 7 July 2015 accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgments against available evidence, forming our own judgments, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 133
