Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 67 Independent auditors report to the members of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from have not met performance targets value in use.
This included a comparison our audit indicating a risk to the recoverability of of occupancy rates, revenue per available 1 Our opinion on the financial their book value.
Finally, the Group has room, market growth and expected statements is unmodified experienced a difficult trading environment inflation with externally derived data We have audited the financial statements of in 2015, particularly in Asia, where some of including external hotel industry reports.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Plc for the the Groups largest hotel properties We also performed our own assessment year ended 31 December 2015 set out on operate.
The Group applies a two-step of other key inputs such as estimated pages 72 to 145.
In our opinion: process in assessing their hotel assets for future costs, discount rates and terminal possible impairment.
The first step is to multipliers, and considered the historical the financial statements give a true and fair identify those properties at risk, i. e. those accuracy of directors estimates, and view of the state of the Groups and of the where there is an indication of impairment.
performed break-even analysis on the parent companys affairs as at Those hotels highlighted as being at risk assumptions.
We assessed the principles 31 December 2015 and of the Groups following this analysis are then subjected and integrity of the discounted cash flow profit for the year then ended: to a detailed impairment review, either models and considered the the Group financial statements have been through an external valuation or through appropriateness of the Groups properly prepared in accordance with analysis of an internal discounted cash disclosures about the impairments and the International Financial Reporting Standards flow model.
The initial analysis to identify sensitivity of the outcome of the as adopted by the European Union: those properties at risk is subject to impairment assessment to changes in key the parent company financial statements judgment.
Furthermore, for those subject assumptions.
have been properly prepared in to a more detailed analysis, the estimation accordance with UK Accounting Classification and valuation of of the recoverable amount is complex and Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced investment properties 506m dependent on assumptions about the Disclosure Framework: and Refer to page Audit & Risk Committee future.
Specifically, significant judgment is the financial statements have been Report, Note 2.3 Summary of significant required in relation to the appropriate prepared in accordance with the accounting policies, Note 3 Accounting discount rates, growth rates, occupancy requirements of the Companies Act 2006 estimates and judgments, and Note 14 rates, revenue per available room, terminal and, as regards the Group financial financial disclosures.
values and the resulting forecast cash statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
flows to use in determining value in use.
The risk: Classification of an asset as Therefore, this is one of the key judgmental 2 Our assessment of risks of material investment property rather than as areas that our audit is concentrated on.
misstatement Property, Plant & Equipment requires In arriving at our audit opinion above on the judgment, and is determined by reference Our response: Our procedures included financial statements the risks of material to the Groups future intentions and challenging the directors initial risk misstatement that had the greatest effect business model.
As discussed in Note 2.3, assessment process by which properties on our audit were as follows.
this classification results in a different were selected for further assessment of accounting treatment because Property, their recoverable amount.
This included Valuation of hotel assets 2,764m Plant and Equipment is recorded at comparison of actual asset performance Refer to Audit & Risk Committee Report, depreciated cost whereas investment to previous forecasts and available Note 2.3 Summary of significant properties are carried at fair value.
We further considered future accounting policies, Note 3 Accounting Group engaged external experts to value forecasts, comparing these to internal estimates and judgments, and Note 12 its investment properties.
The valuation plans and external market information.
models applied to determine the value of those properties selected for a detailed investment properties are complex and impairment review, we used our own The risk: The Group has 2,764 million of sensitive to assumptions around valuation specialists to assist us in hotel assets which are subject to annual occupancy rates, market growth, sales evaluating the valuation methodology used review to assess whether or not they may and rental rates, as well as discount rates by the group for both external and internal be impaired.
The Group carries these and terminal multipliers.
On this basis, valuations, including compliance with assets at cost.
There are a number of classification and valuation of investment relevant accounting standards and factors which drive additional audit effort in properties are key judgmental areas on alignment to market practice.
Firstly, certain hotels were which our audit is concentrated.
from our valuation specialists, we impaired in previous years and any further challenged the key assumptions used decline in performance may result in Our response: When considering the within each model in determining the further impairment being recorded.
appropriate classification of a property our recoverable amount of these hotel assets, Secondly, the Group purchased three procedures included making enquiries of which was generally considered to be their hotels in 2014 which, in varying degree, the senior members of the finance team Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance 68 Independent auditors report to the members of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc only continued and Directors, inspecting internal business 3 Our application of materiality and an The remaining 2% of total Group revenue, overview of the scope of our audit plans, and considering key terms of 2% of Group profit before tax and 5% of external contracts and agreements.
We The materiality for the Group financial total Group assets is represented by four statements as a whole was set at 7.5m.
analysed the appropriateness of the other overseas operations, none of which valuation methodology applied, and This has been determined with reference to individually represented more than 1% of a benchmark of the Group profit before tax considered whether it is in line with any of total Group revenue, Group profit accounting requirements and business and after deducting non-controlling interest, before tax or total Group assets.
For these which we consider to be one of the practice.
We challenged the key remaining components, we performed assumptions used in determining fair principal considerations for members of the analysis at an aggregated group level to company in assessing the financial value.
This included a comparison of re-examine our assessment that there were forecast rental rates, market growth, performance of the Group.
We consider it no significant risks of material misstatement appropriate to exclude the profit due to occupancy rates, and real estate sales within these operations.
prices with externally derived data and non-controlling interest as following the consolidation of CDLHT in 2014, this has a The Group audit team instructed internal budgets.
We also performed our own assessment of other key inputs such material impact on the Groups profit component auditors as to the significant measure.
Materiality represents 5.0% of the areas to be covered, including the relevant as discount rates and terminal multipliers.
Our valuation specialists assisted in the Group profit before tax and after nonrisks detailed above and the information to controlling interest.
The Group audit team evaluation of the more subjective and complex assumptions and analyses.
approved the component materialities, We report to the Audit & Risk Committee all which ranged from 0.2 million to 5 million, Finally, we assessed whether the Groups corrected and uncorrected misstatements disclosures properly reflected the risks having regard to the mix of size and risk we identified through our audit with a value profile of the Group across the inherent in the calculations and met the in excess of 370,000, in addition to other requirements of relevant accounting components.
The work on the five reporting audit misstatements below that threshold components was performed by component standards.
that we believe warranted reporting on auditors and the rest by the Group audit In our audit report for the year ended qualitative grounds.
31 December 2014 we included The Groups principal operations are in the consolidation accounting and override of The Group audit team visited three United Kingdom, Asia and the US which controls as two of the risks of material component locations in the UK, US and represent over 94% of Group revenue, 94% misstatement that had the greatest effect Asia.
Telephone conference meetings were Group profit before tax and 92% of Group on our audit.
We considered consolidation also held with these component auditors total assets.
All of these operations are accounting risk to be less significant in the and all the others that were not physically scoped in for a full scope audit to current year as the Group finalised its first visited.
At these visits and meetings, the component materiality for the Group audit time implementation of the standard dealing findings reported to the Group audit team purposes.
Although not financially with consolidation in the prior year.
In 2014, were discussed in more detail, and any significant, in agreement with the Audit this resulted in the consolidation of CDLHT, further work required by the Group audit Committee, reviews of financial information which had previously been accounted for team was then performed by the including inquiry were also performed on as an associate.
The override of controls component auditor.
two entities in Middle East and China by risk was reported last year due to the component auditors simultaneously with the significant changes in senior management audit of the Group and its financially which coincided with the 2014 year-end significant operations.
Mitigating measures were put in place in 2015 to re-instate an additional level of oversight over year-end Group Group profit Group total Number of Revenue before tax assets financial reporting which reduced this risk.
components % % % Therefore, whilst we continue to perform Audits for group reporting purposes Three Asia, US, 94 94 92 audit procedures over these two areas, we UK have not assessed them as risks that had Two Middle the greatest effect on our audit.
Reviews of financial information including enquiry 4 4 3 East and China Consequently they are not separately 98 98 95 Total identified in our report this year.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 69 4 Our opinion on other matters In particular, we are required to report to Scope and responsibilities prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 you if: As explained more fully in the Directors is unmodified Responsibilities Statement set out on page In our opinion: we have identified material inconsistencies 66, the directors are responsible for the between the knowledge we acquired preparation of the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration during our audit and the directors for being satisfied that they give a true and Report to be audited has been properly statement that they consider that the fair view.
A description of the scope of an prepared in accordance with the annual report and financial statements audit of financial statements is provided on Companies Act 2006: taken as a whole is fair, balanced and the Financial Reporting Councils website at the information given in the Strategic understandable and provides the www.
This Report and the Directors Report for the information necessary for shareholders to report is made solely to the companys financial year is consistent with the assess the Groups position and members as a body and is subject to financial statements.
performance, business model and important explanations and disclaimers strategy: or regarding our responsibilities, published on Based solely on the work required to be the Audit & Risk Committee Report does our website at www.
com uk undertaken in the course of the audit of the not appropriately address matters auditscopeukco2014a, which are financial statements and from reading the communicated by us to the Audit incorporated into this report as if set out in Strategic report and the Directors report: Committee.
full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, we have not identified material Under the Companies Act 2006 we are the work we have undertaken and the basis misstatements in those reports: and required to report to you if, in our opinion: of our opinions.
in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the adequate accounting records have not Steve Masters Companies Act 2006. been kept by the parent company, or Senior Statutory Auditor returns adequate for our audit have not for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, 5 W e have nothing to report on the been received from branches not visited Statutory Auditor disclosures of principal risks by us: or Based on the knowledge we acquired the parent company financial statements Chartered Accountants during our audit, we have nothing material and the part of the Directors to add or draw attention to in relation to: Remuneration Report to be audited are 15 Canada Square not in agreement with the accounting London the directors statement of Risks on pages records and returns: or E14 5GL 29 to 33, concerning the principal risks, certain disclosures of directors their management, and, based on that, the remuneration specified by law are not 18 February 2016 directors assessment and expectations of made: or the Groups continuing in operation over we have not received all the information the three years to 31 December 2018: or and explanations we require for our audit.
the disclosures in Note 3 of the financial statements concerning the use of the Under the Listing Rules we are required to going concern basis of accounting.
review: 6 W e have nothing to report in respect the directors statements, set out on of the matters on which we are pages 30 and 39, in relation to going required to report by exception concern and longer-term viability: and Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are the part of the Corporate Governance required to report to you if, based on the Statement on page 42 relating to the knowledge we acquired during our audit, companys compliance with the eleven we have identified other information in the provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate annual report that contains a material Governance Code specified for our review.
inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material We have nothing to report in respect of the misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise above responsibilities.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 70 Al Jahra Copthorne Hotel & Resort, Kuwait Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 71 Financial Statements 72 Consolidated income statement 73 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 74 Consolidated statement of financial position 76 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 77 Consolidated statement of cash flows 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 140 Company statement of financial position 141 Company statement of changes in equity 142 Notes to the Company financial statements
