Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 71 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors members of Mitchells & Butlers plc statement contained on page 38 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: Opinion on financial statements of Mitchells & Butlers plc we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern In our opinion: basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the we have not identified any material uncertainties that may Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 26 September 2015 and of the cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a Groups and the Companys profit for the 52 week period then ended: going concern.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, as adopted by the European Union: this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in a going concern.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Independence the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not The financial statements comprise of the Group income statement, the provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group and Company those standards.
balance sheets, the Group cash flow statement, the Group statement of changes in equity and the related sections 1 to 5 on the Group financial Our assessment of risks of material misstatement statements, and the related notes 1 to 10 on the Company financial The assessed risks of material misstatement described below, statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied which are the same risks identified in the prior year, are those in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company engagement team: financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of the pub estate As set out in note 3.1 the value of the pub estate is 4,242m.
We worked with our property valuation specialists and managements external advisers to challenge the methodology and underlying assumptions used in the pub estate Freehold and long leasehold valuation.
This included: The accounting policy adopted and judgements used are described in section 3.1 to the financial statements.
assessing the appropriateness of minor changes to assumptions since the prior year, specifically the value assigned to fixtures and fittings: This is considered to be a significant risk due to the judgements inherent within the valuation exercise.
The total value of revalued properties as at 26 September 2015 is discussing the valuation process with managements external advisers: 3,842m.
The revaluation exercise performed in the year has resulted in a net decrease obtaining evidence to support inputs to the model, including benchmarking valuations in book value of 29m which includes an impairment charge of 54m recognised in the to comparable market transactions, in order to confirm whether the multiples being income statement.
The Groups accounting policy sets out that the market value is proposed were appropriate: determined using factors such as estimated fair maintainable trading levels and comparable reviewing the future projected income, by comparing both revenues and costs to market transactions.
An estimated multiple is derived for each of the Groups trading available post conversion results: and brands, which is then applied to the fair maintainable trade.
In specific circumstances where this approach does not fairly represent the underlying value of the property, challenging the supporting rationale for a sample of spot valuations and corroborating a spot valuation is applied.
responses provided by management to external evidence where available.
Short leasehold Additionally we: The accounting policy adopted and judgements used are described in section 3.1 tested the design and implementation of controls in relation to the and 3.3 to the financial statements.
The total value of short leasehold properties as at revaluation exercise: 26 September 2015 is 182m 2014 174m.
Judgements in relation to expected trading compared the estimated fair maintainable trading levels to historical trading results levels, turnaround period for underperforming sites and discount rates are applied when for the last two years and investigated variances to determine if these were indicative calculating short leasehold property impairments.
The Group recorded an impairment of expected trading: charge of 11.5m in the year.
tested the integrity of the data used in the valuations by agreeing a sample to source data: and assessed the competence, independence and integrity of managements external advisers.
We challenged the assumptions used by management within the short leasehold impairment review.
This included testing the integrity of the information used within the model by agreeing inputs back to source data including historical results and lease terms, and assessing the appropriateness of the discount rate through recalculation and performing sensitivity analysis.
72 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Orchid acquisition accounting The accounting policy adopted and judgements used are described in section 3.5 to the We assessed managements approach in performing a detailed analysis attributing financial statements.
values to each site based on an assessment of the future trading format for that site.
This included challenging managements assumption in respect of the proposed trading The Group acquired 173 pubs from the Orchid Group in July 2014 for consideration of formats, multiples and the use of projected cash flows when assessing Orchid sites with 270m.
Provisional fair values were reported in the prior year.
As permitted by IFRS 3 development potential.
management has finalised their acquisition accounting within the measurement period, resulting in a 5m reduction in property fair values to 265m and the recognition of a We also assessed the appropriateness and completeness of other potential fair value deferred tax asset of 12m.
The principal assets acquired were freehold properties, a adjustments including any goodwill and intangible assets recognised and engaged our number of which had development potential.
The acquisition accounting required the tax specialists to assess the availability of tax losses.
exercise of judgement to determine the appropriate fair values of the assets and liabilities including the assessment of the fair value of properties and the ability to access future tax losses.
Tax provisions and recognition of tax losses The accounting policy adopted and judgements used are described in section 2.4 to the We utilised our tax specialists to appraise the likely outcome of technical tax treatments financial statements.
This section describes the level of judgement exercised in valuing tax and review correspondence with the tax authorities to assess the reasonableness of the provisions recorded in respect of a number of uncertain tax positions, including the likely provisions made.
outcome of negotiations with and enquiries from tax authorities.
We have challenged the assumptions made by management in respect of the deferred tax The Group also exercises judgement in determining the level of future taxable income to asset recognised, including making an assessment of the likely time period over which any support the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax assets for losses of 24m asset recognised would be recovered.
This included a review of whether recognition of 2014 25m have been recognised in the year.
In reaching the conclusion that these assets losses is appropriate and future forecasts of taxable profits are achievable.
should be recognised management has assessed the probability that the losses will be available and that future taxable profits will be generated to utilise these losses.
Accounting for defined benefit schemes The accounting policy adopted and judgements used are described in section 4.5 to the We used our actuarial specialists to test the actuarial assumptions used to calculating financial statements.
The total pension liability has decreased from 425m at 27 September the net pension deficit.
This included an assessment of the key assumptions described 2014 to 350m at 26 September 2015. in section 4.5 of the financial statements to comparable market data.
We recalculated the additional liability recognised in respect of the minimum funding requirement The actuarial assumptions used in the measurement of the Groups net pension liability are by discounting the cash flows which we agreed to the Groups approved schedule inherently judgemental, such as the discount rate and inflation.
In May 2014 the Company of contributions.
entered into a formal recovery plan to increase contributions to the pension scheme for the 10 year period to 2023.
Included within the total pension liability above is a liability of 248m 2014 232m to reflect the commitment to making these contributions in line with the minimum funding requirements.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on Committee all audit differences in excess of 180,000 2014 180,000, page 50. as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to presentation of the financial statements.
express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the An overview of the scope of our audit risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the individual matters.
Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based Our application of materiality on that assessment, we performed a full scope audit in respect of the We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial UK retail operating business and UK property business together statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a accounting for 100% of the Groups total assets, 97% revenue and reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
This audit work was performed directly by We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and the Group engagement team.
In 2014 we performed a full scope audit in evaluating the results of our work.
in respect of the UK retail operating business, UK property business and the German business ALEX representing 100% coverage of the We determined materiality for the Group to be 9.4m, which is Groups total assets, revenue and operating profit.
No issues were approximately 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items being identified in the prior year audit in Germany, and no further matters acquisition costs, movements in the valuation of the property portfolio were identified during our analytical procedures on ALEX in the current and short leasehold impairment 2014 9m, determined on the same year, and therefore given the relative size of ALEX to the Group we basis.
These items are excluded due to their volatility and this is consider the UK business provide sufficient audit assurance over the consistent with the Groups internal and external reporting to facilitate Group balances.
Our audit work of the UK businesses was executed a better understanding of the underlying trading performance.
at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 0.4m to 7.5m 2014 0.4m to 6.5m.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process.
Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 73 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Act 2006 As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, In our opinion: the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the part of the Report on Directors remuneration to be audited has Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act statements in accordance with applicable law and International 2006: and Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
report for the financial year for which the financial statements are Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional Matters on which we are required to report by exception standards review team and independent partner reviews.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the in our opinion: Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent we have not received all the information and explanations we permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone require for our audit: or other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and accounting records and returns.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Directors remuneration the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and been made or the part of the Report on Directors remuneration to be the overall presentation of the financial statements.
audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Corporate governance statement financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Stephen Griggs FCA Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we Senior Statutory Auditor are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Annual Report is: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 23 November 2015 statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
