Independent auditors report to the members of Mitie Group plc For the year ended 31 March 2015 Opinion on financial In our opinion: statements of a the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys Mitie Group plc affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: a the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: a the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and a the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 51.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within the Directors Report that the group is a going concern.
We confirm that: a we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and a we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on of material misstatement our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition and accounting for complex contracts There are significant accounting judgements required to apply We have evaluated managements application of their accounting the groups revenue recognition policies to the long-term complex policy, with particular focus on the long-term facilities management contracts entered into by the group for the provision of projectcontracts, the largest contracts and new contracts that were based services, predominantly integrated facilities management significant either due to size or specific characteristics.
In particular this relates to determining the stage of We have assessed the design and implementation of the key completion of the contract activity, forecasting whole-life contract controls, including monthly contract reviews: the automated costs and assessing the separability of services provided under the IT controls over the systems used to generate the information contract in accordance with IAS 18. and Managements review and approval of the contract The groups policy on revenue recognition is set out in Note 1 to the accounting applied.
group financial statements and revenue is analysed in Note 3.
We have performed substantive tests and analytical procedures on The matter is also disclosed as a critical Judgement in Note 2. costs incurred to date and forecast performance, including agreeing significant contract terms, analysing margin trends and obtaining signed variation orders.
In certain instances, we have independently contacted customers to confirm the nature of the services and the terms of the contracts and evaluated the separability of the contract services.
Mitie Group plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Recoverability of trade receivables The group has exposures on its balance sheet in relation to We have challenged the judgements made with respect to the the recoverability of contract mobilisation costs capitalised of recoverability of certain specific contract receivables by reading 30.6m and contract receivables, including accrued income of underlying contracts and legal correspondence where appropriate.
Judgement is required to assess the recoverability of We have assessed the reasonableness of financial and operational contract assets and to evaluate whether provisions or allowances forecasts and challenged the assumptions adopted by Management are required.
to support the recoverability of contract assets.
The risk arises where amounts are in dispute with customers as We have assessed the design and implementation of the key a result of contract performance disputes or where payment is controls, including monthly contract reviews: monthly reviews of significantly overdue.
aged debtors and billing reports: and the automated IT controls The groups policy on financial assets is set out in Note 1 and a over the systems used to generate the information.
breakdown and analysis of the balances is provided in Note 18 to the We performed cash after date testing over the contract debtor group financial statements.
population to assess recoverability of existing contract receivables.
Goodwill and intangible assets In accordance with IFRS and the Groups accounting policy, Our work focussed on challenging Managements assumptions management is required to carry out an annual impairment including specifically the determination of cash-generating units test of the Groups goodwill of 464.4m and intangible assets of CGU, the forecast cashflows for each CGU and the discount rates, 76.6m, which incorporates judgements based on assumptions particularly with respect to the Healthcare CGU.
about future profitability, revenue growth, margins and forecast In making this critical assessment of the cash flow projections we cash flows, and the selection of appropriate discount rates for the considered the output of the Groups budgeting process, historical related businesses.
forecasting accuracy and compared forecast profit margins to The Groups policy on impairment of goodwill is disclosed in note historical margins and benchmarked the discount and growth rates 1 and note 2.
Further details in respect of the carrying value of employed to available market data.
goodwill and intangible assets, and the recoverability of individual We challenged the appropriateness of the inclusion of cashflows cash-generating units and sensitivities of the key assumptions are relating to new initiatives.
With respect to Healthcare, we critically outlined in note 13. assessed managements position as to whether or not a reasonably possible change to key operating assumptions could result in an impairment.
In doing so, we have considered the sensitivity of the key assumptions relating to future growth in revenue, costs savings to be achieved and the discount rate applied.
We also specifically reviewed the appropriateness of the disclosures set out in note 13 to the accounts detailing the point at which the recoverable value of goodwill would equal the carrying amount.
Presentation of other items on the consolidated income statement The group records certain transactions that fall outside the normal We have reviewed the transactions disclosed with other items and course of trading as other items on the consolidated income obtained documentation to understand their nature and evaluate statement.
In light of the material value of the items disclosed, we whether their inclusion within other items is in line with the Groups have identified their appropriate presentation as a significant risk.
There is no specific definition in respect of the classification and We have challenged management over the fair presentation of disclosure of such items within IFRS as adopted by the European the balances and considered whether any further transactions Union, although IAS 1 does require disclosure of significant items, meet the requirements for classification as other items by and therefore judgement is required by the Directors to identify such reference to minutes of board meetings held and a review of transactions as other items and to maintain the comparability external announcements.
of results with previous years and in accordance with the Groups In critically evaluating the appropriate presentation of other items, accounting policy.
Failure to disclose clearly the nature and impact we have taken into consideration the guidance provided by the FRC.
of other items may distort the readers view of the financial result in the year.
We have read the Groups accounting policy for other items and considered the adequacy of the disclosures with respect The Groups policy on disclosure of other items is outlined in note 1. to other items.
Further details of other items is given in note 5 Mitie Group plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitie Group plc For the year ended 31 March 2015 The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 49 and 50.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable of materiality that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined planning materiality for the group to be 5.0 million 2014: 6.0 million, which is based on 4.4% 2014: 5.3% of headline profit before tax and which equates to 0.2% 2014: 0.3% of revenue, 12.0% 2014: 8.8% of profit before tax and 1.3% 2014: 1.5% of equity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 100,000 2014: 150,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including of our audit group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment, our group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work at the five divisions and at head office.
All of these were subject to a full audit, led by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
These five divisions represent the principal business units within the groups four reportable segments and, together with head office, account for 100% 2014: 100% of the groups net assets, 98.2% 2014: 98.4% of the groups revenue and 100% 2014: 100% of the groups profit before tax.
Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which was lower than group materiality and ranged from 0.0m to 3.5m 2014: 0.0m to 3.4m Opinion on other matters In our opinion: prescribed by the a the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance Companies Act 2006 with the Companies Act 2006: and a the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: received and a we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or accounting records a adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or a the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Mitie Group plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Our duty to read other Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our information in the opinion, information in the annual report is: Annual Report a materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or a apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or a otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for of directors and auditor the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Colin Hudson FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London 18 May 2015 Mitie Group plc 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
