Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit: 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the Financial Statements of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 80 to 110.
In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial Statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Capitalised software and development costs: 28.1 million 2014: 15.9 million Refer to page 49 Audit Committee Report, page 86 accounting policy and pages 94 to 96 financial disclosures.
The risk The Group has incurred significant software and development project costs in the year in respect of Project Reset, a significant technology infrastructure programme and TSM 9.0, TravelSuperMarkets technology and website replatform project.
These costs are capitalised to the extent that future economic benefits are expected to be generated by the projects to which they relate.
This requires judgement as to whether the projects will be completed successfully and whether sufficient revenue and profitability will be generated to recover the costs capitalised.
The Directors make this assessment using a return on investment calculation.
The key inputs in that calculation, specifically revenue growth, ability to cross sell products, and timing and amount of capital expenditure, all require significant estimation and judgement.
The Directors also apply judgement, as to whether the software and development costs incurred are technically feasible.
Given the significant value and judgemental nature of the classification of software and development assets, this is considered to be an area of significant audit risk.
Our response Our audit procedures included detailed testing of the inputs into the Groups return on investment calculations.
We assessed the historical accuracy of the Directors forecasting and conducted interviews with key operational personnel to obtain a breadth of different views about project progress, corroborating their comments to internal performance reporting where applicable.
For the key inputs we critically assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions with reference to internal data from Project and Infrastructure leads: Board approved capital spending forecasts: and knowledge gained performing our other audit procedures.
We challenged managements assessment of the technical feasibility of the projects based on our discussions with key project leads and reviews of detailed business cases, submitted prior to costs being incurred, outlining the proposed features and expected completion dates.
We assessed whether costs had been appropriately capitalised, by reference to the recognition criteria of the applicable accounting standards: IAS38 and SIC 32.
We agreed a sample of external costs capitalised to external invoices in respect of significant projects for a statistically selected sample.
We evaluated the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the judgements made by management that economic benefit will be derived from the projects.
Revenue: 281.7 million 2014: 248.1 million Refer to page 49 Audit Committee Report, page 85 accounting policy and page 97 financial disclosures.
The risk Revenue is recognised predominately from internet lead generation click based revenues.
Revenue accruals are made based on an estimation of the likely number of successful conversions.
Revenue recognition, including the existence and accuracy of revenue, is considered to be a significant audit risk because of the inherent complexities of the click recording system and the judgements made to estimate unbilled revenue at the period end.
Our response Our audit procedures included assessing the general IT control environment for the systems used to determine click-based revenue.
We documented the systems put in place by management and made our own assessment of the effectiveness of their design.
We also performed walk through tests to assess whether the controls were operating as designed.
Our own IT specialists re-performed click-throughs in the live environment to assess whether the system was recording clicks in the correct period, and whether the number of clicks on which the Group based its revenue accrual estimate were derived from a system that is operating effectively.
We selected a statistical sample of revenue accruals at 31 October 2015 and agreed these to confirmatory evidence, including cash receipts and confirmations of successful applications from the end providers.
This allowed us to make an assessment of the accuracy of the revenue accrual in the period to 31 October 2015.
We performed ageing analysis and analytical procedures, based on revenue trends, to assess the movements in the accrual to 31 December 2015.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 77 Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Only We agreed total revenue recognised to cash receipts received in the year, with reference to the movement of trade receivables and revenue accruals, allowing us to assess the existence and completeness of the revenue recognised in the year ended 31 December 2015.
We analysed movements in revenue at an operating segment level based on changes in visitor numbers and transactions, challenging managements explanation of any unusual trends with reference to supporting evidence.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of click-based revenue recognition.
com contingent remuneration payable: Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Accrual nil 2014: 15.3 million, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income charge 5.2 million, of which 0.4 million relates to interest unwind 2014: 4.2 million, of which 0.3 million relates to interest unwind As a result of Moneysupermarket.
com paying its final settlement of the MoneySavingExpert.
com contingent remuneration, there is no longer any estimation uncertainty over the liability and therefore it is no longer assessed as one of the risks that has the greatest effect on our audit and is not separately identified in our report this year.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was set at 4.0 million 2014: 5.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude MoneySavingExpert.
Materiality represents 4.7% of normalised Group profit before tax a reduction on 2014 consistent with industry consensus levels 2014: 7.5%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.2 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group consists of nine components, which are all audited by the Group audit team at the Group site.
98% of the Group revenues are generated from the main trading component, Moneysupermarket.
com Limiteds component materiality is 3.6 million.
We audit the remaining components to materialities ranging from 0.1 million to 3.5 million.
The Group audit scope covers 100% of Group revenues, 100% of Group profit before taxation, and 100% of total Group assets.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors Viability Statement on pages 25 and 26, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 2018: or the disclosures in note 2 of the Financial Statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
78 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on pages 25 and 26, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 46 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 75, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of Financial Statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Stuart Crisp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 29 February 2016 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 79
