OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 93 INDEpENDENT AuDITORS REpORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS pLC ONLy OPiNiONS aND CONCluSiONS ariSiNG and discount rates to externally derived data as well as our own assessments.
We tested the principles and mathematical integrity of frOm Our auDiT the Groups discounted cash flow model and assessed the sensitivity 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified of the impairment calculations to changes in the key assumptions.
We have audited the financial statements of Morgan Advanced We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures relating Materials plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise to the intangible asset including the impairment charge recognised the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of in the period.
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Recognition of provisions and contingent liabilities 12.0 million Cash Flows, the parent company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
Refer to page 62 Audit Committee report, pages 102 to 105 In our opinion: accounting policy note and page 143 financial disclosures the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December The risk: provisions are held in respect of closure and restructuring 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: costs, environmental issues and other matters including the settlement the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in of European class actions.
The application of accounting standards accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as to determine whether a provision should be recorded and, if so, adopted by the European union IFRSs as adopted by the Eu : the amount, is inherently subjective.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with uK Accounting Standards, including Our response: Our audit procedures included a critical assessment of FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the extent to which the Groups estimates are a balanced assessment of the latest available information and the accuracy and reliability of the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with sources of that information.
We considered the appropriateness of the the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the assumptions by reference to third party confirmations and legal advice, Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
where available, and considered whether our understanding of the business gained throughout the audit process corroborated the 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement provisions recorded, or indicated that further challenge was warranted.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were: of provisions and contingent liabilities.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about provisions and the treatment of movements Impairment assessment of Intangible assets on provisions in the income statement for the year were appropriate.
Customer Relationship 30.5 million, Technology 12.9 million Refer to page 62 Audit Committee report, pages 102 to 105 Measurement of tax balances and contingencies 12.3 million accounting policy note and pages 115 to 117 financial disclosures Refer to page 62 Audit Committee report, pages 102 to 105 accounting policy note and pages 118 to 119 financial disclosures The risk: The Group has generated significant intangible assets on acquisitions, whose recoverability is dependent on the ability of the The risk: The Group is subject to income taxes in a large number businesses to which it relates to generate sufficient future economic of jurisdictions.
The level of current tax and deferred tax recognised benefits.
There is a risk that this will not be the case which would requires judgments as to the likely outcome of decisions to be made by result in an impairment being required.
The most significant risks of the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in impairment in this category relate to certain customer relationships which the Group operates.
There is a risk that the Groups judgments within the Group balance 30.5 million and technology assets in do not adequately reflect the latest available, reliable information or an Composites and Defence Systems C&DS 9.7 million.
The C&DS appropriate application of relevant tax legislation, and are either under customer relationship asset 5.8m has been impaired in full in the or overstated as a result.
year reflecting a level of decline in sales and orders from the uK MoD customer.
The carrying value of the technology intangible, which has Our response: Our audit procedures included challenging the not been impaired in the year, is dependent on the business being able appropriateness of the Groups assumptions and estimates in relation to generate additional revenue outside of its traditional customer base.
to tax assets and liabilities, by critically assessing the range of possible The risk associated with the carrying value of the remaining customer amounts that may be assessed under tax laws, likely settlements based relationship which has not been impaired in the year is dependent on on the latest correspondence with the relevant tax authorities and the the Group retaining its customer base.
complexity of the relevant tax legislation.
We involved our tax specialists in analysing and challenging the assumptions used to determine tax Impairment reviews are performed by the Group when there is an provisions because they have relevant experience of the application indication that the carrying values may not be supported.
The of the international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and impairment reviews are based on discounted cash flow projections courts.
We also assessed whether the Groups tax disclosures are reflecting a number of assumptions and estimates which require appropriate and in accordance with relevant accounting standards.
judgment and are inherently uncertain.
Presentation of specific adjusting items 22.1 million pre-tax Our response: Our audit procedures included testing of the controls designed and applied to provide assurance that the projected future Refer to page 62 Audit Committee report, pages 102 to 105 economic benefits are sufficient to support intangible asset carrying accounting policy note and pages 109 to 111 financial disclosures values.
Our challenge of the key assumptions relating to operating cashflows during the projection period, long term growth rates and The risk: The Group separately presents certain income and discount rates in the impairment calculations were based on our expenditure as specific adjusting items on the face of the income assessment of the historical accuracy of the Groups impairment statement.
Specific adjusting items are not defined by IFRSs, as calculations.
We compared the Groups assumptions regarding key adopted by the European union, and therefore judgment is required inputs such as projected economic growth, competition, cost inflation by the directors to identify such items as specific adjusting items AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 94 Governance in accordance with the Groups accounting policy on a consistent basis.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Failure to disclose clearly the nature and impact of material specific Companies act 2006 adjusting items may distort the readers view of the financial result In our opinion: in the year.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Our response: Our audit procedures included making enquiries of the 2006: and directors.
We inspected and challenged the nature of items included the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report within specific adjusting items and agreed their respective amounts to for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared supporting documentation, and to third party correspondence where is consistent with the financial statements.
We assessed the consistency of the items classified as specific adjusting items year on year and in accordance with the 5. we have nothing to report on the disclosures Groups accounting policy: and we considered the adequacy of the of principal risks Groups disclosures about the items included within this caption in note Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 6 specific adjusting items and the related accounting policies for these nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: categories on pages 102 to 105. the directors viability statement page 21, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors 3.
O ur application of materiality and an overview of the assessment and expectations of the groups continuing in operation scope of our audit over the three years to 2018: or The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the 3.5 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit use of the going concern basis of accounting.
before taxation, normalised to exclude this years specific adjusting items as disclosed in note 6 of 22.1 million, of which it represents 4.3%.
6. we have nothing to report in respect of the matters on We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected which we are required to report by exception misstatements exceeding 0.175 million, in addition to other audit under ISAs uK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have reporting on qualitative grounds.
identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, Of the Groups 88 reporting components, we subjected 26 to audits a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
for Group reporting purposes and 18 to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by In particular, we are required to report to you if: component auditors at the key reporting components in the following we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge countries: uK, uSA, China, South Korea, France, and Italy and by the we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that Group audit team in the uK.
In addition, specified audit procedures they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken were performed by component auditors in selected geographic as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the locations such as uSA, India, Germany and Brazil.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or The components within the scope of our work accounted for the the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address following percentages of the groups results: matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Group under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Group operating Group total revenue profit assets in our opinion: Audits for Group adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent reporting purposes 56% 71% 54% company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Audit procedures over significant accounts 27% 22% 28% the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Total 83% 93% 82% agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the are not made: or significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team we have not received all the information and explanations we approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.1 million require for our audit.
to 3.5 million, having regard to the size and risk profile of each component.
The work on 43 of the 44 components was performed by under the Listing Rules we are required to review: component auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
the directors statement, in relation to going concern set out on page 47 and the longer-term viability set out on page 21: and The Group audit team visited the following locations: uK, uSA, the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 49 to 52 Germany, China and Brazil.
Telephone meetings were also held with relating to the companys compliance with the 11 provisions of the auditors and local management at these locations and the majority the 2014 uK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
of the other locations that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 95 Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 91, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
aNThONy SyKES SENIOR STATuTORy AuDITOR for and on behalf of KpMG LLp, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 23 February 2016 AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 96 fiNaNCial STaTEmENTS fiNaNCial StatemeNtS CONTENTS 97 Consolidated income statement 98 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 99 Consolidated balance sheet 100 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 101 Consolidated statement of cash flows 102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 146 Company balance sheet 147 Company statement of changes in equity 148 Notes to the Company balance sheet 164 Group statistical information 165 Cautionary statement 166 Glossary of terms 167 Shareholder information
