STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members ofNational Express Group plc Opinion on Financial Statements In our opinion: of National Express Group PLC the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit and the parent Companys loss for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement ofComprehensive Income, the Group and parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to38 for the Group Financial Statements and 1 to 21 for the parent Company Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of theGroup Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Going concern and the Directors As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the assessment of the principal risks appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2 to the Financial Statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group thatwouldthreaten the solvency contained within the Strategic Report on page 37. orliquidity ofthe Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 28 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 30 and 31 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 2 to the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over aperiod of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: the Directors explanation on page 37 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and wedid not identify any material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability tocontinue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the of material misstatement greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Last year our report included a risk around exceptional items.
As there have been no exceptional items reported in the current year we have not included this risk in our report.
com 101 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members ofNational Express Group plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Goodwill and fixed asset impairment Our procedures for challenging managements methodology and assumptions focused on the This is included in note 2 as one of the Groups interests in Spain and North America and included: significant accounting judgements and assessing the appropriateness of any changes to assumptions since the prior period: key sources of estimation uncertainty validating the integrity of the impairment models through testing of the mechanical accuracy given there are a number of key and verifying the application of the input assumptions: assumptions used in the assessment of understanding the underlying process used to determine the risk adjusted cash flow the carrying value of goodwill and fixed projections and challenging them with reference to historical forecasts, actual performance assets.
These are described in note 13 and expected future changes to the business: and include future projected cash flows, the perpetual growth rate and the working with our valuation specialists to benchmark the discount rates and perpetuity appropriate discount rate.
Note 13 also growth rates applied to external macro-economic and market data.
This involved includes details of the extent to which the consideration of the impact of territory-specific risk adjustments to the discount rate versus goodwill and fixed asset impairment test the risk adjustments made to the underlying cash flows: and is sensitive to changes in the key inputs.
assessing the appropriateness of the disclosures included in the Financial Statements including the sensitivity analysis provided.
Total goodwill and fixed assets at 31December 2015 were 2,031.8 million.
The most significant goodwill balances relate to the Spanish division 634.6 million and the North American division 371.3 million.
North American insurance and We used our actuarial specialists to challenge the assumptions inherent in the valuation otherclaims provisions produced by the Groups actuary in North America for the high volume lower value claims, Estimation of insurance provisions is such as the loss development factors and ultimate expected losses, and to re-perform the highly judgemental and is based on actuarial calculation to develop a valuation range.
This also included a separate assessment assessment of the expected settlement ofthe discount rate applied in the actuarial valuation.
on known claims together with an For the individually large claims not subject to actuarial review, we discussed the nature of estimate of settlements that will be made each claim with the US general counsel and those responsible for claims handling and tested in respect of incidents incurred but not a sample of items to supporting evidence to assess the expected range of possible outcomes.
reported at the balance sheet date.
Thishas been highlighted as a key This included testing the fair value of provisions recognised on acquisitions during the year.
accounting estimate and judgement We compared the overall level of provision recorded to the range determined by management innote 2. and the Groups actuary, to conclude whether the level of provision was appropriate.
This Of the total Group claims provision of involved consideration of the audit evidence supporting the range as well as the independent 60.9 million at 31 December 2015, assessment of the range for higher volume lower value claims produced by our actuarial 54.5 million relates to the North specialists.
American division and includes amounts arising through acquisition in the year that have required separate fair value consideration.
Details of the Group claims provision are given in note 25.
The measurement of the self-insured claims provision in North America uses acombination of actuarial assumptions around loss development and management judgement to ensure that the Group is appropriately provided.
102 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Tax provisions We used our tax specialists to assist us in appraising the likely outcome of technical tax Judgement is required in relation to the treatments based on their experience working with the revenue authorities, and reviewed value of the tax provisions recorded in correspondence with the authorities to challenge the reasonableness of the provisions made, respect of a number of uncertain tax including considering consistency and approach to judgements.
Our tax specialists also positions across the Group which have considered managements assessment of the risk inherent in current tax positions taken not yet been agreed by the tax authorities around the world which could be subject to challenge in the future.
including potential future tax audits in theUK, Spain and North America, as wellascertain elements of the financing structures within the Group.
Accordingly tax provisioning is included in note 2 asone of the significant accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty.
As outlined in note 10 there was a release of 8.6 million of tax provisions during the year reflecting the finalisation of the tax audits in Spain for years 2009 through 2011 and the fact there are now no outstanding tax audits in the UK, Spain, the US or Canada.
At 31 December 2015 the Group tax provisions totalled 12.7 million.
Pensions accounting We reviewed the actuarial assumptions used to calculate the net pension liability and our The measurement of the Groups net actuarial specialists performed a critical assessment of the key assumptions as described pension liability of 12.6 million requires innote 33 with reference to comparable market data.
management to make judgements on We also tested a sample of the pension asset valuations and the data used in the actuarial assumptions including price inflation, valuation.
discount rates, pension increases, mortality rates, earnings growth and therecognition of pension scheme surpluses.
The net liability position reflects a liability on the UK Bus scheme which is largely offset by net surpluses on the Rail and Group schemes.
As explained in note 2, the significant accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty, changes in these assumptions could significantly impact the amount of the Groups retirement benefit obligations.
As outlined in note 33, this sensitivity is a function of the size of the gross pension assets being 663.8 million and the gross pension liability being 676.4 million.
Fuel hedge accounting We have worked with our treasury accounting specialists to: It is the Groups policy to hedge fuel challenge the valuations of a sample of forward fuel hedge contracts by calculating price fluctuations in order to provide independent fair values: short-term cost certainty.
Due to the review the hedge documentation with reference to the requirements of IAS 39 and continued decline in global oil prices bestpractice: during the year, partially offset by the completed independent effectiveness testing for a sample of hedges: and utilisation of 2015 hedge contracts, challenged the Groups assessment of the highly probable assumptions in respect thefair value of the liability in respect ofthe forward fuel hedge contracts oftheforecast transactions.
hasincreased from 71.3 million at 31December 2014 to 83.8 million at31December 2015.
The accounting policy is included in note 2 to the Financial Statements and accounting for fuel commodity contracts is an inherently complex area.
The continued decline in oil prices and the resultant increase to the derivative liability recognised has meant the complexity and sensitivity of the hedge effectiveness testing has increased.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 66.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
com 103 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members ofNational Express Group plc continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and inevaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 8 million, which is 5.3% of normalised pre-tax profit profit before any exceptional items and intangible amortisation, and below 1% of equity.
In 2014 this was also 8 million which was 5.5% of profit before normalised pre-tax profit.
Normalised profit is one of the key metrics used both externally and internally as excluding exceptional items, although there are none in 2015, which are volatile, as well as amortisation costs, facilitates a better understanding of the underlying trading performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 160,000 2014: 160,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to theAudit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, of our audit including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, as in the prior year, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at the five operating divisions and the Group head office function.
Each operating division was subject to an audit that was scoped relevant to its component materiality level, which did not exceed 5.2 million in either the current or prior year.
The Group head office work was performed to a component materiality level of 6.4 million.
The five operating divisions and the Group head office function contributed 100% 2014: 100% of Group revenue and Group operating profit and 99% 2014: 100% of Group net assets.
Group-level analytical review procedures were performed over the amounts held in the Bahrain joint venture.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the audit team visits eachof the five primary divisions where the Group audit scope was focused at least once ayear in addition to the work performed at the Group head office.
Opinion on other matters prescribed In our opinion: by the Companies Act 2006 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required toreport by exception Adequacy of explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: andaccounting records we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting recordsand returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
104 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you inthe Annual Report if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge ofthe Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have notidentified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are of Directors and auditor responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they givea true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Financial Statements Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, ormaterially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing theaudit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies weconsider the implications for our report.
Nigel Mercer Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Birmingham, United Kingdom 25 February 2016 www.
