ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NEXT PLC Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of NEXT plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended 24 January 2015 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 24 January 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview of our audit approach: Materiality Materiality of 40 million representing 5% of pretax profit.
Audit differences in excess of 2 million reported to the Audit Committee.
Audit scope NEXT plc the Company and NEXT Retail Limited were subject to full scope audits with the remaining entities and eliminations subject to specific audit testing based on our judgement of risk and materiality.
NEXT plc and NEXT Retail Limited account for 98% of the Groups revenue and 97% of total segment profit.
Principal risk areas Adequacy of the directory debt provisions.
The assessment of inventory provisions required in respect of unsold stock.
The valuation of financial instruments which hedge foreign exchange and interest rate fluctuations.
The risk of misstatement arising from management override with regard to estimates and other provisions relevant to the retail environment.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 37, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group and the Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
74 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 2 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc Our audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement we define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial statements, would be changed or influenced.
We also determine a lower level of performance materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of any undetected misstatements added to uncorrected misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
100% When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined 40m materiality for the Group to be 40 million 2014: 35 million, which is approximately 5% of underlying profit before tax.
The rationale for using underlying profit before tax as our basis for Tolerance for potential undetected misstatements materiality is that it provides a consistent year on year approach excluding one off gains, and is considered to be the most relevant performance measure to the Groups stakeholders.
75% 30m On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that performance materiality for the Group should be 75% of materiality 2014: 50%, namely 30 million, although we reduce our testing thresholds in areas of significant risk to appropriately Performance Materiality reflect our assessment of risk in the business and to focus on Materiality the key judgements and estimates.
We have increased our assessment of performance materiality from 50% to 75% during Tolerance for the year as a result of limited historical audit findings in prior uncorrected misstatements years, except for the judgements and estimates associated with the areas of significant risk.
Our approach is designed to have a reasonable probability of ensuring that the total of uncorrected and undetected misstatements does not exceed our materiality of 40 million for the Group financial statements as a whole.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the 5% 2m Committee all audit differences in excess of 2 million, as well Uncorrected misstatement reporting threshold as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluated any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
75 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 4 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NEXT PLC An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit scope focused on six entities along with group eliminations on consolidation.
Two of these entities, NEXT plc the Company and NEXT Retail Limited, were full scope with the remaining entities and eliminations component subject to specific audit testing based on our judgement of risk and materiality.
The full scope audit of NEXT Retail Limited which includes the Retail and Directory business operations accounts for 98% of the Groups external revenue and 97% of total segment profit.
The overseas Group purchasing division NEXT Sourcing Limited, Lipsy Limited, and Property Management NEXT Group plc contribute 1% of the Groups external revenue and 2% of total segment profit and were subject to specific scope audits in areas where we assessed there was a risk of material misstatement.
NEXT Sourcing Limited and Lipsy Limited are both subject to local statutory audits in their jurisdictions but these are completed after the date of this report.
The remaining adjustments to segment profit in deriving Group profit before tax are incorporated within our full scope audit of the Company or specific scope audit of the elimination components.
All the significant risks noted below are included in the full scope entities, NEXT Retail Limited and NEXT plc, and the Group eliminations component.
The audits of the entities are performed at a materiality level calculated by reference to a proportion of the Group materiality appropriate to the relevant scale of the business concerned.
The full scope entities were allocated 80% of the Group performance materiality.
The range of performance materiality allocated to the specific scope entities was 20% to 30% of the Group performance materiality.
For the elimination components of the Group, we performed other procedures to confirm there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
The audit of both the full scope entities and all specific scope entities, other than NEXT Sourcing Limited, were undertaken by one audit team in the UK.
The NEXT Sourcing Limited audit was performed by an EY team in Hong Kong.
76 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 2 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We consider that the following areas present the greatest risk of material misstatement in the Group financial statements and consequently have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources, and the efforts of the engagement team, including the more senior members of the team.
In addition to understanding the risks in each of these areas and how management controls these risks, our audit responses are set out below: Principal risk area and rationale for there being a risk of material misstatement Audit response Adequacy of the directory debt provisions.
This is one of the largest provisions Management record a provision where a loss event has occurred using historical within the Group financial statements default rates and credit score information to determine the extent to which a loss event relating to a net debtor balance of will result in an actual loss.
We tested managements categorisation of the debtor book by stage of current Whilst the provision is calculated default based on whether payments have been made in accordance with the using a combination of internally and NEXT terms and conditions for Directory accounts.
externally sourced information there is We challenged the reasonableness of the key assumptions in determining significant judgement in determining managements provision as follows: the assumptions.
We compared the credit score data used by NEXT plc to stratify the customer Key assumptions: base back to third party data obtained.
We recalculated the historical default 1. the assumed default rates rates for each category of customer by comparison to prior year customer representing the likelihood of balances and actual default during the last year, as support for the assumed eventual default for debt within default rates.
each category of the debtor book: and 2.
We compared the assumed recovery rates to historical recovery rates, current performance, and any observed changes in debtor profile in the current period.
2. the assumed recovery rate for debt that has defaulted and passed to We checked how the credit score data used in determining the future default rates debt collection agencies.
was applied to the debtor book.
We tested the arithmetical accuracy of the provision based on managements assumptions in respect of default rates and expected recovery rates, and we also checked the underlying debtor book categorisation to recent customer payment history.
The net stock balance at the year We tested a sample of stock items categorised as Spring Summer 2015, Autumn end, 416.8 million, is significant to the Winter 2014, and older items, to gain comfort over the categorisation of stock used overall balance sheet.
We examined the Groups historical trading patterns of stock sold at full price, stock The provision is calculated using post marked down below full price in a sale period, and the element of inventory that year end trading performance and is passed to a clearance route: together with the related margins losses achieved historical sales patterns.
Changes in for each of these sales channels.
trading performance can result in We challenged the reasonableness of the inventory provision by projecting future significant judgement in determining sales levels to calculate our own estimate of the required provision, taking into the provision required.
account a combination of the evidence of these historical trading patterns and any observed changes to the current year buying cycle and observed sales trends.
We also retrospectively assessed the appropriateness of the provision by comparing the net inventory balance to actual post period end sales.
77 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 4 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NEXT PLC Principal risk area and rationale for there being a risk of material misstatement Audit response Valuation of financial instruments which hedge foreign exchange and interest rate fluctuations.
The nature of the business is such that We identified the different types of financial instruments held by the Group and there is exposure to foreign currency assessed the level of risk inherent in each of the transaction types such as forwards, receipts and purchases.
The Groups options and swaps.
hedging strategy to manage this risk is We analysed the features of a sample of the year end instruments per the such that at any one point in time there contractual agreements and checked the details match to the counterparty is a significant value of outstanding valuations.
financial instruments, which are We selected a sample of instruments for valuation testing.
This sample covered marked to market and whose values each instrument, and counterparty combinations for each type of instrument.
are estimated based upon market The Group audit team was supported by EY experts who independently valued the inputs, rather than being directly sample in order to challenge the reasonableness of the counterparty valuations observable market values.
The risk of misstatement arising from management override of internal controls with regard to estimates and other provisions relevant to the retail environment.
Other than stock and debtors dealt We performed analytical procedures and journal entry testing in order to identify with separately above, these primarily and test the risk of misstatement arising from management override of controls, relate to property related provisions.
which in addition to the risks disclosed above, focused on accruals and provisions of a judgemental nature capable of being manipulated through management override.
For material items we reperformed the calculation of the accrual to test mathematical accuracy.
We understood the different accruals and provisions in order to challenge managements underlying assumptions for under or over provision.
We compared these assumptions to subsequent outcomes where available.
Where subsequent outcomes were not available to assess their accuracy, we considered the appropriateness of managements previous estimates against historical outcomes.
We considered each of the key judgements and estimates for any evidence of bias, indicating management override of internal controls.
The above risks are the same as in the prior year.
Consistent with the prior year we have excluded revenue recognition as this was not one of the areas requiring greatest audit effort.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
78 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 2 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: We have no reporting exceptions to materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial report.
statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no reporting exceptions to adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns report.
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no requirements exceptions to the Directors statement, set out on page 44, in relation to going concern: and report.
that part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Nigel Meredith Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 19 March 2015 79 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 4 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports
