Financial Statements Independent auditors report To the members of NMC Health Plc OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion: NMC Health plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED NMC Health plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 Statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Statement of cash flows for the year then ended then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Related Notes 1 to 15 to the financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related Notes 1 to 39 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as regards the parent company financial statements as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Risks of material Revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition and the determination of whether misstatement the Group is acting in the capacity of an agent rather than principal.
Accounting for major complex transactions.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of ten components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further five components.
The components including consolidation adjustments where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 100% of adjusted Profit before tax, 94% of Revenue and 97% of Total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of $4.62m which represents 5% of adjusted Profit before tax.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
90 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements What we concluded to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Revenue recognition, including the timing of We relied upon the controls tested over Based on the audit revenue recognition and the determination revenue recognition, including the timing procedures performed, we of whether the Group is acting in the capacity of revenue recognition.
are satisfied that revenue of an agent rather than principal recognition is appropriate We performed analytical review procedures and and that the Group has The Group has revenue of $880.9m, performed cut-off testing procedures by selecting appropriately adhered to 2014: $643.9m.
a sample of transactions either side of year-end their revenue recognition to check that revenue had been recognised in Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 54 : policies, including the the appropriate accounting period.
Accounting policies pages 109 to 110 : and Note 5 determination of whether and 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements We performed procedures on contractual the Group is acting as agent starting on pages 117 and 123 respectively.
arrangements in respect of new and one-off rather than as principal.
fee income and considered the appropriateness The Group has a number of revenue streams of the accounting through verification to legal relating to its Healthcare and Distribution agreements and vouching the amounts segments including clinic revenues, insurance recognised to invoices and cash receipts.
claims, over-the-counter sales, pharmacy sales and sales of goods.
There is a risk of improper We tested a sample of new distribution revenue recognition, particularly with regard to agreements entered into during the year and cut-off at period end dates, in the healthcare revenue sharing contracts with doctors in newly business, given the diversity of the Groups acquired businesses to verify that the Groups healthcare operations, and in the distribution determination that they are acting as a principal business.
Furthermore, there is a risk that rather than an agent is appropriate.
management may incorrectly determine We checked the Groups adherence to their whether the Group is acting as principal revenue recognition policies and we agreed or agent in certain arrangements such as that these policies are in accordance with distribution agreements with key suppliers IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
and revenue sharing agreements with doctors.
The risk has increased in the current year We performed full and specific scope audit due to the acquisitions which have resulted procedures over this risk area in 13 locations, in new revenue streams for the Group.
which covered 94% of the risk amount including consolidation adjustments.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 91 Financial Statements Independent auditors report continued To the members of NMC Health Plc What we concluded to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Accounting for major complex We obtained and reviewed the sale and purchase Based upon the procedures transactions agreements entered into for the acquisitions we have performed, we The Group recognised goodwill of $345.1m which took place in the year and other relevant concur with the Groups and intangible assets of $74.8m in respect documentation to understand the terms and final accounting for the of the acquisitions made in the current conditions of the agreements.
acquisitions of Luarmia S. L year.
There were no acquisitions in the group of companies and We assessed the judgements applied in determining prior year.
Americare Group, and the whether acquisitions in the year represented an provisional accounting for Refer to the Audit Committee Report acquisition of an asset or a business combination.
the acquisitions of Dr Sunny page 54 : Accounting policies pages 111 This involved assessing whether or not the entities Healthcare Group and to 113 : Significant Accounting Judgements and the assets acquired constitute the carrying ProVita International and Estimates Note 2.3 and Notes 5, 18, on of a business, i. e. whether there are inputs and Medical Center as at 36 and 37 of the Consolidated Financial processes applied to those inputs that have the 31 December 2015.
Statements starting on pages 117, 133, ability to create outputs.
We have reviewed the Where transactions met the definition of a business business combinations The Group made a number of significant combination we audited the Groups assessment of disclosures in respect acquisitions during the year including the assets and liabilities acquired and the allocation of of the acquisitions which the Luarmia S. L group of companies, the purchase consideration to these and the resultant completed in 2015 and Americare Group, Dr Sunny Healthcare goodwill or gain on bargain purchase recognised by we believe that these Group and ProVita International Medical performing the following procedures: are appropriate and in Center LLC.
The contractual arrangements We assessed the appropriateness of the recognition compliance with the for such transactions can be complex and of intangible assets and consideration of their requirements of IFRS 3 require management to apply judgement valuation inputs.
in determining whether a transaction We verified that the consideration transferred, and represents an acquisition of an asset where relevant contingent consideration, in respect or a business combination.
of each transaction was appropriately calculated There is a risk that the estimates and in accordance with contractual arrangements.
judgements made in the recognition of We assessed managements judgements in respect an acquisition as a business combination of what arrangements should be accounted for may be inappropriate and the valuation as part of the business combination and those of the assets and liabilities acquired may that should be accounted for separately from the be misstated.
The complexity of the multiple contractual We assessed whether the Group is exposed, or has arrangements in respect of certain rights, to variable returns from its involvement with acquisitions and related services, and the investee and has the ability to affect those returns the different legal environments in which through its power over the investee as at the date upon acquisitions have been undertaken, may which the acquisitions were recognised.
lead to inappropriate judgements as to We verified the appropriateness of the consolidation the basis of accounting.
adjustments in respect of accounting for these Furthermore, there is a risk that these transactions.
acquisitions may be recognised before the We assessed the accounting for the acquisitions Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable to verify that they were accounted for and, where returns from its involvement with the appropriate, disclosed in the financial statements investee and has the ability to affect those in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the returns through its power over the investee.
This is a new risk in the current year given that there were a number of such We performed full scope audit procedures over Luarmia transactions in the current year and none S. L group of companies, Americare Group, Dr Sunny in the prior year.
Healthcare Group and ProVita International Medical Center LLC which represented all of the significant complex transactions in the current year.
We also performed audit procedures on the purchase price allocation exercise in respect of these acquisitions which covered 100% of the goodwill and intangible assets recognised in respect of these transactions.
92 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In the prior year, our auditors report included risks of material misstatement in relation to the risk of valuation of trade receivables.
In the current year, based upon the demonstrated history of debt collection and expected future trends, this was not a risk that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of efforts of the audit team.
In the prior year, our auditors report also included capitalisation of costs into capital work in progress as a risk of material misstatement.
This year this was not a risk that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of efforts of the audit team given that the quantum of capital work in progress has reduced and the likelihood of material misstatement was not considered to be high given that the majority of capitalised work in progress at year-end relates to a fixed price construction contract.
THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT TAILORING THE SCOPE Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal audit results and whether the components have been newly acquired when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 21 reporting components of the Group, we selected 14 components covering entities within the United Arab Emirates UAE and Spain, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 14 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of ten components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics: one of these components is located in Spain and the remainder in the UAE.
For the remaining four components specific scope components, all of which are located in the UAE, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 139% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax 2014: 150% of the Groups Profit before tax, 97% 2014: 96% of the Groups Revenue and 154% 2014: 156% of the Groups Total assets.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 139% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax 2014: 152% of the Groups Profit before tax, 85% 2014: 89% of the Groups Revenue and 140% 2014: 149% of the Groups Total assets.
The specific scope components contributed 0% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax 2014: -2% of the Groups Profit before tax, 12% 2014: 7% of the Groups Revenue and 14% 2014: 7% of the Groups Total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
Specific scope component testing is primarily focused on the significant risk in relation to revenue recognition however it also included procedures on property and equipment balances.
We also performed specified procedures over certain aspects of property and equipment at a 15th component located in the UAE.
Of the remaining six components, all of which are located in the UAE, that together represent -1% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax, none are individually greater than 2% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The Group audit team also performed audit procedures over consolidation and foreign exchange adjustments, which were net negative to Revenue and adjusted Profit before tax of 3% and 39%, respectively 2014: net negative to Revenue and Profit before tax of 4% and 49% respectively, and reduced the calculated total overall percentage coverage to 97% 2014: 96% and 100%, 2014: 100% respectively.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93 Financial Statements Independent auditors report continued To the members of NMC Health Plc The table below illustrates the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
% of Number of adjusted % of % of Total locations PBT Revenue assets Group audit scope Full 10 139% 85% 140% Specific 4 0% 12% 14% Specified procedures 1 1% 1% 0% Not significant by size or risk other procedures 6 1% 5% 3% Consolidation adjustments audited by Group audit team 39% 3% 57% Total coverage 100% 100% 100% CHANGES FROM THE PRIOR YEAR During the year the Group acquired Luarmia S. L, Americare Group, Dr Sunny Healthcare Group and ProVita International Medical Center LLC: these components were all assigned as full scope components.
Furthermore, one component which was not in scope in the prior year was a specific scope component this year in order to increase the coverage of the Groups revenue and adjusted Profit before tax subject to audit procedures.
INTEGRATED TEAM STRUCTURE AND INVOLVEMENT WITH COMPONENT TEAMS The overall audit strategy is determined by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The senior statutory auditor is based in the UK but, since Group management and the majority of the operations reside in the UAE, the Group audit team includes members from both the UK and the UAE.
The Group audit team members from the UAE are also members of the component teams.
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the ten full scope components, audit procedures were performed on one of these directly by the primary audit team and audit procedures were performed on the remaining nine by the component audit teams, one of which is located in Spain and the others in the UAE.
For the components where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
Given that the Group operates predominantly in the UAE the Senior Statutory Auditor visited the UAE five times during the current year audit process and members of the Group audit team in both jurisdictions work together as an integrated team throughout the audit process.
During the year the Group acquired Luarmia S. L group of companies based in Spain which are audited by a component team in Spain.
The Senior Statutory Auditor or members of the Group audit team visited Spain three times during the current year audit process.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, meeting with local management including of newly acquired entities, attending planning and closing meetings, performing site visits to medical facilities, reviewing key audit working papers on risk areas as well as involvement by the Group audit team in the audit procedures on significant risk areas, primarily revenue recognition and accounting for major complex transactions.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams in the UAE and Spain where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level by the Group audit team, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
MATERIALITY The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We initially determined materiality for the Group to be $5.67m 2014: $3.88m, which is 5% of forecast adjusted Profit before tax 2014: 5% of Profit before tax.
We believe that it is appropriate to use adjusted Profit before tax in order to exclude the effects of certain non-recurring items from profit before tax.
These related to the write-off of unamortised finance fees resulting from the refinance of loan facilities in the year of $2.61m and the costs of $4.13m in respect of the acquisitions which took place during the year.
We Note that management have excluded these one-off items when assessing the performance of the Group.
In the prior year there were no such non-recurring items and hence Profit before tax was used as the basis for setting materiality last year.
We used a profit based measure for determining materiality as profit is one of the KPIs of the business and a focus of users of the financial statements.
94 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
