com stock code: NTG Independent auditors report to the members of Northgate plc Statements, the Notes to the Group and Parent Company Opinion on financial statements of Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company Northgate plc Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to In our opinion: 37.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in | the financial statements give a true and fair view of the their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as European Union and, as regards the parent company financial at 30 April 2015 and of the groups profit for the year then statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the ended: Companies Act 2006.
| the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Going concern Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Union: directors statement contained within page 30 that the group is a going concern.
We confirm that: | the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by | we have concluded that the directors use of the going the European Union and as applied in accordance with the concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and financial statements is appropriate: and | the financial statements have been prepared in accordance | we have not identified any material uncertainties that may with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as cast significant doubt on the groups ability to continue as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups Statement, the Group and Parent Company Statements of ability to continue as a going concern.
Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below, which are the same as in the prior year, are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Determining appropriate depreciation rates for vehicles available for hire We reviewed the underlying assumptions of expected The net book value of vehicle assets for hire at 30 April 2015 is future market values of hire vehicles used in the calculation 660.2m 2014: 614.9m with a depreciation charge for the by comparison to external third party industry data for year of 138.0m 2014: 159.2m.
IAS 16 Property, Plant and expected future market prices.
Equipment requires that depreciation rates and estimated useful lives are reviewed regularly to ensure that the net book value of We considered the historical accuracy of expected future disposals of tangible fixed assets are broadly equivalent to their market values by comparison to actuals achieved in the year.
We tested the assumption of the level of vehicle This requires an estimate to be made of the sale proceeds at the registrations to third party, publically available data and time of disposal.
Determining likely sales proceeds for future recalculated the impact of a reduction in fleet age upon vehicle disposals is judgemental and requires estimates to be disposal profits.
made of future vehicle market values.
We performed detailed testing of the calculations Further explanation is included in the Groups critical accounting supporting these judgements, including comparison to judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty in Note 3, recent actual market prices achieved for vehicle disposal of the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 64 and Note 14. similar vehicles.
23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2015 70 71 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The recoverability of aged trade receivables Trade receivables are stated in the balance sheet at their nominal We recalculated the provisions and evaluated that they were value less any provision for irrecoverable amounts.
At 30 April calculated in accordance with Group policy.
To assess the reasonableness of the provisions recorded, we Determining the appropriate levels of provision for irrecoverable reviewed the levels of post year end cash collections against trade receivables requires judgement relating to the assessment year-end trade receivables and investigated the significant across a large number of customers of the likely levels of individual overdue balances by reference to recent history of recovery of these receivables along with the overall economic recoveries on these balances and review of correspondence environment.
Further details are included in the Groups critical accounting We reviewed the historical accuracy of debtor provisioning, judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty in Note 3, and the level of bad debt write-offs during the year.
the Audit and Risk Committee report on pages 64 and 65 and Note 18.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee discussed on pages 64 and 65.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
The group audit team, led by the senior statutory auditor, Our application of materiality perform the audit work at the head office and centralised UK We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the finance function in Darlington and an audit team from Deloitte financial statements that makes it probable that the economic Spain perform the audit work at the Spanish head office in decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be Madrid.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of The operations at these two locations were subject to a our work.
full audit and represent the principal business units of the Group accounting for 99% 2014: 99% of the Groups net We determined materiality for the group to be 4.2m 2014: assets, the Groups revenue and the Groups profit before 3.6m, which is approximately 5% 2014: 7% of pre-tax tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis profit and below 1% 2014: 1% of equity.
We have changed for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material the percentage applied to pre-tax profit to align more closely misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at these with those of other comparable companies that share a two locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable common risk profile.
to each individual entity which were lower than group We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would materiality and ranged from 2.31m to 2.94m 2014: 1.98m report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of to 2.52m.
84,000 2014: 72,000, as well as differences below that In addition, although not significant to the Group, threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative components in Ireland and Malta were subject to full scope grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee audits at levels of materiality applicable to each individual on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the entity which were below group materiality and ranged from overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, conclusion that there were no significant risks of material and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit remaining components not subject to audit.
scope primarily on the audit work in Darlington and Madrid, which represent all of the Groups principal trading activities.
com stock code: NTG Independent auditors report to the members of Northgate plc CONTINUED The group audit team continued to follow a programme Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, Statutory Auditor and a senior member of the group audit we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information team visits the significant component in Spain at least once in the annual report is: every year.
| materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Opinion on other matters prescribed by the | apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Companies Act 2006 inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in In our opinion: the course of performing our audit: or | the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has | otherwise misleading.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and In particular, we are required to consider whether we have | the information given in the Strategic Report and the identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the acquired during the audit and the directors statement financial statements are prepared is consistent with the that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and financial statements.
understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Matters on which we are required to report and Risk Committee which we consider should have been by exception disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such Adequacy of explanations received and accounting inconsistencies or misleading statements.
records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Respective responsibilities of directors and you if, in our opinion: auditor | we have not received all the information and explanations As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities we require for our audit: or statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give | adequate accounting records have not been kept by the a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with not been received from branches not visited by us: or applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK | the parent company financial statements are not in and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, Directors remuneration understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to include our dedicated professional standards review team and report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors independent partner reviews.
remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with This report is made solely to the companys members, as the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the arising from these matters.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters Corporate Governance Statement we are required to state to them in an auditors report and Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK than the company and the companys members as a body, for Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have arising from our review.
23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2015 72 73 Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Christopher Powell FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Leeds, United Kingdom 29 June 2015 23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG 23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 FINANCIALS Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2015 74 75 76 Consolidated income statement 77 Statements of comprehensive income 78 Balance sheets 79 Cash flow statements 80 Notes to the cash flow statements 81 Statements of changes in equity 82 Notes to the accounts 117 Five year financial summary 118 Notice of Annual General Meeting 122 Shareholder information 23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7
