Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Ocado Group plc Report on the group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Ocado Group plcs group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 29 November 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the 52 week period the period then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 29 November 2015: the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the period then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the period then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are crossreferenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Context Our 2015 audit was planned and executed having regard to the fact that the operations of Ocado were largely unchanged from the prior year albeit the level of capital expenditure, particularly in relation to developing the platform, continued to be significant.
In addition we had regard to the continued tough trading environment in the UK grocery market, whilst noting that Ocado continued to grow its customer base and revenues, and the potential impact this might have on cash flow projections used to support asset carrying values.
In light of this our overall audit approach in terms of scoping and areas of focus was largely unchanged with continued scrutiny over the development and technical feasibility of key capital projects and the assessed economic return that these were anticipated to achieve.
Overall group materiality: 4.5m which represents 0.41% of revenue.
The complete financial information of all active trading companies located in the UK, whose results taken together Materiality account for all material balances and line items within the consolidated financial statements, were audited by the UK engagement team.
The UK engagement team also audited the groups joint venture with Wm Morrisons Supermarkets Plc Morrisons.
Capitalisation of internal development costs.
Areas of focus Deferred tax asset.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
com Our Financials Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Commercial income Promotional support and media income As described in the Audit Committee Report on page 64 and in Our approach, specifically in relation to promotional income, was underpinned by the critical accounting estimates and judgements and accounting testing key system controls, including those used to determine the amount of items policies sections in the notes to the accounts page 135, Ocado has sold under the terms of a supplier funded promotion arrangement.
We determined three main streams of commercial income: promotional support: that the testing of these controls provided us with audit evidence that promotional media income: and volume rebates.
support income had been recorded appropriately and in the correct period.
Our testing for promotions also included checking the computation of the amounts billed This remains an area of focus due to the judgments involved and to suppliers.
the quantum of income recorded under these arrangements and its significance in relation to the result for the period.
The amount to We additionally reconciled the total value of promotion income recorded in Ocados be recognised in the income statement for elements of commercial Promotions system for the period to the total value recognised in the general ledger income requires management to apply judgement based on the and found no material reconciling items.
contractual terms in place with suppliers and estimates of amounts We independently confirmed the terms of a sample of individual promotion and the group is entitled to where transactions span the financial periodmedia agreements, covering both the duration of the promotion campaign and the end.
quantum of promotional support per unit sold the price charged for the campaign, directly with a range of suppliers, including requesting confirmation of items invoiced Promotional support and media income in the period and for amounts accrued at the period end, checking that the amount Promotional support and media income arrangements are typically recognised was recorded in the correct period based on the suppliers confirmation structured to last for a four week duration and are settled with of details of the period the funding related to.
suppliers within a short period following the relevant service or promotion having been fulfilled.
This income stream involves high Similar to promotional income, we reconciled the total value of amounts recorded volume, lower value arrangements and requires limited judgement in Ocados Media booking system to the total value of media income recorded in or estimation by management in determining the amount that the the financial statements and found no material reconciling items.
We also selected a group is entitled to.
Notwithstanding the limited judgement involved, sample of individual media adverts in the period and checked that income relating to the magnitude of this income is highly material.
Our focus was these adverts was recognised in the period.
therefore whether an arrangement or agreement for the promotional Volume rebates support and media income recognised existed, whether the relevant promotion or media advertising had taken place and whether the In relation to income due from Waitrose under the terms of their supply income recognised was recorded in the appropriate period.
arrangements, we visited the Waitrose head office and met with the members of the Waitrose Commercial Finance team responsible for determining rebates due to Volume rebates Ocado.
We obtained and read a sample of supplier contracts negotiated by Waitrose Volume rebates is the stream of commercial income which, in our and checked that there was an accrual for amounts due to Ocado in relation to these view, involves the most judgement.
Volume rebates are earned both agreements, the accuracy of which we tested as set out below.
We also considered on supply arrangements managed by Waitrose as the groups supply how Waitrose determine their overall supplier volume rebate income and the partner under the Waitrose sourcing agreement referred to on page associated Ocado share of this.
12 and on arrangements with direct suppliers to Ocado.
Rebates We agreed a sample of amounts invoiced by Ocado to Waitrose during the period by earned under Waitrose managed supply arrangements are material testing the settlement of these amounts by Waitrose.
With respect to accrued income to the groups results whilst rebates earned from direct suppliers are recognised as due from Waitrose at the period end, we obtained a direct confirmation becoming more significant.
Entitlement to income under Waitrose from Waitrose at the period end of the data used by Ocado to estimate the year end supply arrangements is based on the level of purchasing activity accrued income generated from supplies sourced through Waitrose.
We reperformed made by Ocado under the Waitrose sourcing agreement and the the calculation undertaken by Ocado using this data to determine the year end specific contractual terms negotiated with various suppliers by accrued income and concluded the amounts recognised were reasonable.
We also assessed the historical accuracy of estimates made by Ocado in relation to As Waitrose negotiates and agrees the contracts with suppliers, the estimate of the full year amount due to them from Waitrose noting that historic Ocado has to determine income to be recorded based on interim estimates in the last two years had proved highly accurate, based on amounts finally payments received during the year and information provided by invoiced and settled.
Waitrose in relation to amounts due at the period end.
The key judgement that we therefore focus on in the calculation of Ocados In respect of income due under direct supply arrangements we circularised a number share of rebates due from Waitrose is the estimate of amounts to of suppliers to confirm directly the amount of accrued income that Ocado should be accrued at the period end, based on information provided by recognise at the year end.
We received confirmations from all suppliers circularised Waitrose.
with no issues of note arising.
Overall commercial income In relation to the overall amounts recognised for all material commercial income streams, we analysed the total amounts recognised quarterly for each stream, and compared these amounts to the equivalent month in the previous year, to identify whether there were any unusual trends of significance in the amounts or timing of commercial income recognised in each period.
No such items were identified.
121 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Ocado Group plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We obtained a breakdown, by value, of all individual internal development projects Capitalisation of internal development costs capitalised in the period and reconciled this to the amounts recorded in the general As explained on pages 20 and 22, Ocado develops a significant ledger, identifying no reconciling differences.
amount of the software used to operate the systems and technology used in the business and are further developing additional We tested all projects where capitalised costs were in excess of 250,000, together technology to increase the efficiency and capacity of existing with a sample of smaller projects from the remaining population, as follows: operations, and to support future international expansion.
In the We obtained explanations from management of why the project was considered current period, as set out in note 3.1 29.7m of internal development to be capital in nature, in terms of how the specific requirements of the costs have been capitalised within Intangible Assets and Property, relevant accounting standards and other guidance, most notably of IAS 38, Plant and Equipment.
IAS 16 and SIC 32 Web Site Costs were met.
We also conducted interviews We focussed on this area due to the size of the internal costs with individual project development managers responsible for the projects capitalised, and the fact that there is judgement involved in assessing selected to corroborate these explanations and to obtain an understanding of whether the criteria set out in the accounting standards required for the specific projects to enable us to independently assess whether the projects capitalisation of such costs had been met, particularly: met all the criteria for capitalisation set out in accounting standards.
We found the explanations obtained from individual project managers to be consistent The technical feasibility of the project: and with those obtained from management, our understanding of developments in The likelihood of the project delivering sufficient future economic the business and supported managements assessment that the costs met the benefits.
We had particular regard to the fact that the group has continued We challenged both management and the relevant development project to invest in new technology to support future expansion both in managers as to whether the development of new software or systems superseded the UK and internationally, and therefore we focussed on whether or impaired any of the existing assets on the balance sheet.
We noted that, as the economic benefits of the various projects under development disclosed in notes 3.1 and 3.2 an impairment charge of 1.8m was recorded in supported the amounts capitalised.
This specifically included: this regard, but did not identify any further indicators of impairment.
We also applied our own understanding of both new and existing projects and considered Projects relating to the re-platforming of the groups technology whether, in our view, there were any projects where the software is no longer in to enable it to improve its ability to develop and operate and use or its life was shortened by any development activity.
to expand internationally, where the economic benefit of a successful launch is only achieved in the longer term and is To determine whether costs were directly attributable to projects, we obtained inherently, therefore, more judgemental, and listings of hours worked on individual projects and selected a sample of the individual hours recorded and met with the project manager of the relevant project Projects where there are significant judgements made as to the to obtain an understanding of the project being worked upon and to confirm that level of future economic benefits due to the innovative nature of the employee selected for testing was involved on the project and to ascertain the some of the technology being developed.
nature of the work they had been performing.
We also checked the hours charged As part of our work we also focussed on managements judgements equated to the value of costs capitalised, by applying the standard charge out rate regarding whether capitalised costs were of a developmental rather per employee to the timesheet hours, without exception.
than research nature which would result in the costs being expensed We also tested the standard hourly rates, referred to above, that had been applied rather than capitalised : and whether costs, including employment to the hours identified as appropriate for capitalisation by reconciling these to the payroll costs, were directly attributable to relevant projects.
hourly rate equivalent of the average salary of Ocados technology development In light of the development of new software and systems, we also team.
We agreed that the rates applied reflected an appropriate amount of internal focussed on whether the carrying value of existing capitalised development employee costs in each instance with no significant matters arising.
software or systems was impaired.
com Our Financials Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus For all new grants we discussed with management the accounting that they had Share based payments applied, and together with our own independent evaluation of the contractual The group has in place a number of different share incentive schemes documentation, evaluated whether the accounting charge where applicable which are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share based and disclosures in relation to each scheme were in accordance with IFRS 2, and payments.
These range from non-complex vanilla share option determined that the treatment and disclosures relating to the schemes was plans to more complex Executive Director long term incentive consistent with the accounting requirements.
We also re-performed the related schemes, details of which are explained in note 4.10. calculations to check their arithmetical accuracy with no exceptions identified.
The accounting treatment differs for each scheme depending on Where the accounting charge to be recorded was dependent on judgement around the details of the individual scheme.
For certain schemes, namely the achievement of various performance criteria, including an assessment of the Growth Incentive Plan and the Long Term Incentive Plans, achieving future targets, we challenged managements assumptions and performed determining the appropriate accounting charge for the period sensitivity tests around the projected achievement levels.
We also compared the requires various judgments to be made including the likelihood of future projections used by management, to determine the accounting charge, to the specific performance criteria being met e. g. Revenue and Earnings groups detailed business plans and forecasts and external market data, which we Before Interest and Tax targets and share price growth which found to be materially consistent.
determines whether an award will crystallise, and the level of payout that will be achieved.
We also had regard to the level of historical accuracy of managements projections.
Whilst there were no new schemes introduced during the year there In light of the above, we found that the judgements made by management were were a number of grants under pre-existing schemes.
We focussed reasonable and that the charge booked was not materially sensitive to what we on understanding the details of each grant and the associated considered to be a range of realistically possible alternative outcomes as to the levels accounting in relation to such grants as well as existing schemes of performance attained.
where measurement criteria, impacting the accounting, needed to be reassessed in the year.
We obtained the detailed tax computation produced for the group and tested the Deferred tax asset computation of accelerated capital allowances and tax losses available to offset As set out in note 2.8 Ocado recognise a deferred tax asset of 10m.
against current and future taxable profits.
This was an enhanced area of focus in the current year as the group now has recorded a profit in each of the last two years raising the In addition we tested the arithmetic accuracy of the model used by management to prospect of potentially recognising a larger element of available tax derive the level of deferred tax asset to recognise as well as validating that the inputs losses as an asset on the balance sheet.
Determining an appropriate to the model were appropriate and consistent, where appropriate, with projections level of deferred tax asset to recognise requires some judgement used elsewhere in the business.
No issues of note arose from this work.
particularly in relation to the assessed future profitability of the We further considered the appropriateness of the risk adjustment factor applied to business and the risk adjustment factors applied to these profit the calculation having regard to the continued profitability of the business and the projections by management as described on page 139. wider challenges and opportunities facing Ocado as set out in the strategic report on pages 14 and 15 and CEOs review on pages 24 to 29.
On balance we concluded that the level of risk adjustment was appropriate given the current and forecast trading performance of the business, the market place it operates in and the current status of international expansion plans.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
As described in the Strategic Report, specifically on pages 9 to 11, the groups main trading activities are grocery retailing and the development and monetisation of intellectual property and technology for the online retailing, logistics and distribution of grocery and consumer goods, which is all currently undertaken in the UK.
The groups retailing, logistics and technology development operations are held in separate legal entities.
The scope of our audit includes all active trading companies located in the UK, whose results taken together account for all material balances and line items within the consolidated financial statements.
All entities are managed from one central location in the UK and all audit work is undertaken by the UK engagement team.
The group structure also includes a Joint Venture arrangement with Morrisons related to the provision of warehouse equipment in CFC2.
The results of this entity are also audited by the UK engagement team.
No audit work was deemed necessary in relation to the groups captive insurer in Malta or development operation in Poland as the results of these entities are immaterial to the overall consolidated financial statements.
123 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Ocado Group plc Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 4.5m 2014: 4m.
How we determined it 0.41% of revenue.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have applied revenue as a benchmark for determining materiality as we considered that this provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality, reflecting the groups growth and investment actions aimed at delivering enhanced levels of future profitability, and which we believe is also a key measure used by the shareholders as a body in assessing the groups performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 225,000 2014: 200,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 39, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
com Our Financials Report on the group financial statements Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion: In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 62, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance We have no exceptions to report.
Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups and parent companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 63 to 67, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no exceptions to report.
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 62 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they We have nothing material to add have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its or to draw attention to.
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 39 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how We have nothing material to add they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period or to draw attention to.
to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
125 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM Our Financials Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Ocado Group plc Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 76 and 77, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the company financial statements of Ocado Group plc for the 52 week period ended 29 November 2015 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Andrew Latham Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors St Albans 2 February 2016 126 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM
