Independent Auditors report to the members of Ophir Energy plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: Ophir Energy plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fairview of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union asapplied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Ophir Energy plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 Balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Cash flow statement for the year then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 20 to the financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 39 including Appendix A to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation of both the Group and Company Financial Statements isapplicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material I mpairment of exploration and evaluation assets E&E, tangible assets and the equity accounted investment held in APICO LLC APICO misstatement The decline in oil and gas prices represents an indicator of impairment, which potentially could impact the carrying values of the exploration, development and production assets and the underlying assets in the 27.18% equity-accounted investment held in APICO.
Estimate of oil and gas reserves Significant judgements and assumptions are applied in determining the reserves and there is a risk that these may be manipulated toachieve desired results.
This has been linked to other risks of material misstatement identified as part of our audit engagement.
Acquisitions business combinations The risk of incorrectly recording business combinations, in particular the valuation of the underlying assets and liabilities in respect ofthe acquisition of Salamander Energy plc.
Management override There are a number of significant accounting estimates and judgements that are relevant to the financial statements that are exposed to potential bias.
Special remuneratory benefit SRB The risk of incorrectly estimating this unique Thailand tax given the wide range of assumptions used to calculate the tax provision.
Audit scope We selected 14 out of a total of 53 components within the Group for our audit.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 10 components across London, Thailand and Indonesia and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 4components across London and Indonesia.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 100% of Revenue and 99% of total group equity and group total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of $37m 2014: $34 million which represents 2% of total equity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Audit Committee all audit differences in excess of $1.9 million 2014: $1.7 million.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
90 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information What we concluded Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Impairment of exploration We, in conjunction with our component teams in Bangkok and Jakarta, challenged the Based on our audit and evaluation assets impairment analysis and assumptions prepared and used by management through a procedures, which included E&E, tangible assets combination of audit testing and bench-marking.
In addition, we performed journal sensitivity analysis, we andthe equity accounted entry testing to ensure that management had recorded an accurate reflection of the concluded that the oil and investment APICO outcome of the impairment assessment as at the balance sheet date.
gas prices, discount rates and the other assumptions used For E&E assets: The significant decline in the by management were within We checked that Ophir had the right to explore in the relevant exploration licence oil and gas prices represented an acceptable range in light which included obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation such as license an indicator of impairment, of the current market view: agreements and or correspondence with relevant government agencies: which potentially could impact we did not identify any We checked that management had the intention to carry out exploration and the carrying values of Ophirs material issues with the evaluation activity in the relevant exploration area which included the review of E&E, development and valuation of assets.
managements cash-flow forecast models, discussions with senior management production assets and APICO.
and Directors as to the intentions and strategy of the Group: The impairment tests are Refer to Note 13 Exploration We considered whether recent exploration activity in a given exploration licence sensitive to both prices and Evaluation, Note 14 Oil provides negative indicators as to the recoverability of other intangible costs that anddiscount rates and Gas Properties and Note remain capitalised: 28 Investments accounted We therefore concluded We considered whether Ophir has the ability to finance any planned future for using the equity method that the accuracy of the exploration and evaluation activity.
APICO in the notes to the impairment charges and We have also assessed the competency of managements experts, and where financial statements for thedisclosures in respect of applicable, the competency and objectivity of third party experts engaged for the $879.9m, $662.1m and the E&E, development and purposes of assessing the reserves and resources associated with those exploration $130.2m held respectively production assets and the and evaluation assets.
inthe balance sheet by the investment in APICO included We assessed the commercial viability of the exploration block based on the results Group as at 31 December in the consolidated financial 2015. of exploration and evaluation activities carried out in the relevant licence area: and statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 For Development and Production assets: were appropriate.
We discussed asset performance, specifically on production and reserves data, and future plans with the operations and finance management to assess whether there were any other performance-related indicators of impairment.
For assets where an impairment indicator was identified, we obtained the relevant underlying value-in-use model e. g. discounted cash-flow model and fair value assessment for the asset from management and compared the higher of these tothe carrying value of the asset as of the balance sheet date to identify if there were any impairment.
In assessing the appropriateness of managements assumptions and inputs included in the value-in-use models we engaged our Valuation and Business Modelling specialists to assist us in performing industry benchmarking and analysis over oil and gas prices short, medium and long-term, discount rates, foreign exchange rates and inflation rates.
In respect of oil and gas reserve estimates including production profiles, we made inquiries of Ophirs third party reserve engineers, assessing both their competence and objectivity in respect of their reserves reporting.
For equity-accounted investment in APICO LLC: We instructed PwC Bangkok to perform a full scope audit over the financial statements of APICO.
During our site visits to Bangkok, we met with PwC and certain directors of APICO appointed by Ophir to inquire of the financial and non-financial performance of the company to understand if any impairment indicators exist in respect of assets held by APICO.
In assessing the carrying value of the equity-accounted investment in APICO in Ophirs financial statements, we have obtained value-in-use models for the significant producing and development assets, specifically Sinphuhorm producing and Dong Mun development from management and performed the same audit procedures as outlined for the production and development assets outlined above to identify if there was an impairment.
In assessing the appropriateness of managements assumptions and inputs included in the value-in-use models, we have performed the same procedures for which we have outlined in development and production assets discussed above.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 91 Independent Auditors report to the members of Ophir Energy plc continued What we concluded Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Estimate of oil and gas Our audit procedures have focused on managements estimation process, including Based on our procedures we reserves significant whether bias exists in the determination of reserves.
consider that the reserves judgements and assumptions estimations are a reasonable are applied in determining We carried out procedures to walk through and understand Ophirs internal process basis for estimating reserves thereserves and there is a risk andkey controls associated with the oil and gas reserves estimation process.
in-place for impairment that these be manipulated testing, calculating DD&A, toachieve desired results.
We assessed the competence of both internal and external specialists and objectivity the determination of of external specialists.
We also analysed the report of the external specialists on their decommissioning dates These estimates have a audit of the reserves for the producing and development Thailand and Indonesian andin the work performed material impact on the assets as at 31 December 2015. over the purchase price financial statements, accounting for the business particularly: impairment combination with testing: depreciation, Salamander Energy plc.
depletion and amortisation DD&A : decommissioning provisions: assessment of going concern and in calculating the purchase price accounting for the business combination with Salamander Energy plc.
Acquisitions business In order to assess that managements methodology and calculation of the purchase On the basis of the combinations the risk of price allocation associated with the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc was within procedures we have incorrectly recording business an acceptable range and in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3 revised performed we consider combinations, in particular the Business Combinations, we have performed the following procedures: theassumptions and inputs valuation of the underlying used by management in Inquiries of management outside of the finance function to corroborate the assets and liabilities calculating the fair values assumptions made by finance in the preparation of the PPA, oil and gas reserves, associated with the business ofthe assets and liabilities impairment tests and decommissioning estimates: combination with Salamander acquired as part the business We obtained managements purchase price allocation schedules and supporting Energy plc.
combination accounting fair value models where applicable i. e. for production and development assets and the relevant disclosures andtested and bench-marked, including sensitivity analysis, managements Ophir acquired a 100% interest included in the consolidated assumptions and estimates in calculating the fair value of the acquired assets and in Salamander Energy plc financial statements for liabilities assumed as part of the business combination with Salamander Energy plc.
Salamander on the 3 Salamander Energy plc to be With the assistance of our valuation specialists, we specifically analysed and March 2015.
There is a risk within an acceptable range benchmarked managements assumptions in the forecast cash-flow models on discount thatthe valuation of the and in accordance with the rate, inflation rate, future oil and gas prices, production profiles, operating and capital assets and liabilities acquired is requirements of IFRS 3: expenditures against industry peers and other market data where available.
calculated incorrectly leading Business Combinations.
We engaged our London, Bangkok and Jakarta tax specialists to perform an audit to a material misstatement in the financial statements as of the opening taxation position of the acquired company, which included specific procedures over assumptions utilised by management in calculating the deferred thevaluation is subjective andjudgemental due to the tax and special remuneratory benefit both current and deferred as part of the business combination with Salamander Energy plc.
complex estimations and inputs required.
We performed testing over journal entries associated with the recording of the purchase price allocation to ensure that the amounts recorded accurately reflected Refer to Note 10 Business the outcome of managements calculations.
Combinations in the notes tothe financial statements forthe amount recognised bythe Group as at 31December 2015.
92 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information What we concluded Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Management override due We performed procedures with a particular focus on those key judgements and Based on the procedures to the number of significant estimates as communicated in our response to other risks of material misstatement wehave performed and the accounting estimates and included in our report.
This includes assessing exploration and evaluation assets, inquiries we have made, we judgements that are relevant tangible assets and the APICO investment for impairment, estimating the fair values have not noted any instances to the financial statements ofthe assets and liabilities as part of the purchase price allocation PPA exercise of management overriding that are exposed to potential performed following the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc, estimation of the oil controls during the year bias.
This is specifically with and gas O&G reserves and decommissioning provisions.
ending 31 December 2015. reference to: We performed the following: The valuation of assets and Inquiries of management outside of the finance function to corroborate the liabilities acquired as part of the Salamander Energy plc assumptions made by finance in the preparation of the PPA, oil and gas reserves, impairment tests and decommissioning estimates: acquisition: Estimation of oil and We tested manual and automated journal entries in respect of the other risks gasreserves: ofmaterial misstatement identified and concluded on in this report.
As part of our audit procedures to address this fraud risk, we assessed the overall Impairment of Exploration and Evaluation E&E assets, control environment, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow, and interviewed senior management and Ophirs internal audit function to understand tangible assets and the equity-accounted investment whether there had been any reported actual or alleged instances of fraudulent activity during the year.
We have therefore concluded that there is a risk that management may override controls that otherwise appear to be operating effectively.
Special remuneratory benefit In order to address the risk we, in conjunction with our tax specialists in Bangkok and Based on the procedures SRB risk of incorrectly London, have audited whether the calculations are arithmetically correct and have performed by our tax estimating this unique Thailand been prepared in accordance it the Petroleum Act of Thailand.
specialists in Bangkok and tax given the wide range of London, we have concluded assumptions used to calculate We agreed the future revenues and capital expenditure inputs in the SRB computation that the calculation of current the tax provision.
to the same valuation models that were used to estimate the value-in-use of Thailand and deferred SRB taxation exploration, development and producing assets refer to the impairment risk identified ismaterially correct and has SRB is a complex tax regime.
above to ensure that the assumptions were reasonable and consistent.
been appropriately disclosed The calculation of SRB requires in the financial statements a making a number of We have also reviewed the relevant SRB disclosures included in the consolidated for the year ended at assumptions and estimates financial statements to ensure that they are appropriate and understandable and 31December 2015. including: inaccordance with the requirements of IAS 12. future petroleum revenue: future capital expenditure: and depreciation from which the rate of SRB is applied based on cumulative metres drilled.
Given these assumptions and estimates, there is a risk that the SRB tax charge is calculated incorrectly leading to a material misstatement of the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2015.
Refer to Note 11 Special remuneratory benefit in thenotes to the financial statements for the amount charged in the income statement during the year andheld in the statement of financial position by the Group as at 31 December 2015.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93 Independent Auditors report to the members of Ophir Energy plc continued In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to going concern.
In the current year, we have considered this potential risk and concluded that, in spite of the decline in oil price, the business has been cash generative, maintained a positive net asset position and continues to hold a significant amount of cash and cash equivalents as a result of the farm-out of certain Tanzanian exploration assets in 2014.
We have therefore concluded that this is no longer a risk that is necessary to be included in our report.
In addition, as a result of the business combination with Salamander Energy plc, which brought production and development assets into theGroup for the first time, we identified additional risks of material misstatement this year being: impairment of oil and gas assets equity-accounted investment, estimate of oil and gas reserves, acquisitions business combinations and special remuneratory benefit.
The scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
Changes from the prior year There have been significant changes in the scope of the audit from prior year as a result of the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc.
In the previous year, we concluded that there was one full scope audit component located in London which represented the entire group and was audited from London.
As a result of the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc, which brought producing and development assets in South East Asia, we instructed our component teams in Thailand and Indonesia to perform audit procedures in conjunction with the primary team in London to ensure adequate coverage over the significant accounts that comprise the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Tailoring the scope In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage ofsignificant accounts in the financial statements, of the total 53 components of the Group, we selected 14 26% of components across London, Thailand and Indonesia.
Of the 14 components selected for our audit, we designated a component as either full scope, specific scope or review scope.
Full scope components were selected on the basis of their size and or risk characteristics and as such we performed an audit of the complete financial information.
Specific scope components were selected on the size of their accounts and or risk profile and as such we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that entity that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the consolidated financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
A summary of the location and split of the designated scope of those reporting components in our scope has been summarised in the table below: UK Thailand Indonesia Total Full 5 3 2 10 Specific 3 0 1 4 Review Scope 23 3 13 39 Total 31 6 16 53 94 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information For the current year, the full scope components contributed 91% 2014: 100% of the Groups Equity, 100% 2014: not applicable of the Groups Revenue and 94% 2014: 99% of the Groups Total assets.
The specific scope component contributed a further 8% of the Groups Equity and 5% coverage 2014: nil of the Groups Total assets, bringing the total coverage of the Groups Equity to 99% 2014: 100% and Groups Total Assets to 99% 2014: 99%.
The audit scope of these specific scope components may not have included testing of all financial statement accounts of that component but will have contributed to the coverage of overall financial statements accounts tested for the Group as a whole.
Of the remaining 39 components referred to as review scope above within the Group, these together represent 1% of the Groups Equity and Groups Total Assets and none are individually greater than 0.5% of the Groups Total Equity and Groups Total Assets.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Total Equity Total Revenue Total Assets Full Scope Components 91% Full Scope Components 100% Full Scope Components 94% Specic Scope Components 8% Specic Scope Components 5% Other Procedures 1% Other Procedures 1% Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken in Thailand andIndonesia and by us, as the primary audit engagement team located in London.
For full scope and specific scope component work performed by our teams in Thailand and Indonesia respectively, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
During the current years audit cycle, the senior statutory auditor visited both Indonesia and Thailand.
Two additional visits to Indonesia and Thailandwere undertaken by other members of the audit team.
These visits involved meeting with local management including heads of country and personnel outside of the finance function and component teams for planning purposes which included obtaining an understanding of the businesses and their operations including current year performance to enable risk identification, discussions around audit timetables, and the scope for the audit.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95 Independent Auditors report to the members of Ophir Energy plc continued Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our auditprocedures.
We have used total equity of the Group as the basis for our materiality calculation as we concluded that Total Equity is the most closely monitored financial measure for the stakeholders of Ophir Energy plc.
Typically we would expect to focus on an income statement based measure such as profit before tax when calculating materiality.
The Salamander acquisition brings with it income generating producing assets, however the Groups stated strategy is that the cash-generated by the assets will primarily be used to fund future exploration as part of their strategy to remain a Big E exploration, little p production company.
Therefore we concluded that income statement based measures are less relevant where stakeholder value is primarily generated through discovering commercial hydrocarbons.
Hence we have concluded that total equity provides the most appropriate financial measure that is responsive to the main value driver for the shareholders of Ophir Energy plc.
This is also consistent with the prior year audit.
Having identified a relevant basis for materiality, we calculated the planning materiality for the group to be $37 million 2014: $34 million, which represents 2% 2014: 2% of total equity.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% 2014: 50% of our planning materiality, namely $18.5m 2014: $17m to address the risks associated with performing an initial audit over the assets and liabilities acquired in respect of the Salamander Energy plc business combination.
Ourobjective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality level.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was $3m to $10m.
Reporting threshold We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of $1.9m 2014: $1.7m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of thefinancial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
96 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 89, the Directors are responsible for the preparation ofthe financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion onthe financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in anauditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report is: We have no reporting materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or exceptions toreport.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no reporting exceptions adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit toreport.
have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no requirements exceptions the Directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 63, and longer-term viability, set out toreport.
onpage 16: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97 Independent Auditors report to the members of Ophir Energy plc continued Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention We have reporting toinrelation to: nothing material to the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the add or to draw principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, attention to.
solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed ormitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adoptthe going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the dateof approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Paul Wallek Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 9 March 2016 Notes: 1 T he maintenance and integrity of the Ophir Energy plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
