Financial statements and shareholder information Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Pennon Group Plc Opinion on financial statements Scope of the audit of the financial statements In our opinion: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to the financial statements give a true and fair view of the give reasonable assurance that the financial statements state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs are free from material misstatement, whether caused by as at 31 March 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether then ended: the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups the Group financial statements have been properly circumstances and have been consistently applied and prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant European Union: accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read the Parent Company financial statements have been all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies by the European Union and as applied in accordance with with the audited financial statements and to identify any the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, the financial statements have been prepared in or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
consider the implications for our report.
What we have audited An overview of the scope of the audit We have audited the financial statements of Pennon Group Full scope locations are those in which we obtain audit Plc for the year ended 31 March 2015 which comprise the coverage over all significant financial statement line items consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of related to that location.
Specific scope locations are those comprehensive income, the Group and Parent Company in which we obtain audit coverage over selected financial balance sheets, the Group and Parent Company statements statement line items, which are determined based upon of changes in equity, the Group and Parent Company size and risk.
The audit procedures in full and specific cash flow statements and the related notes 1 to 45.
The scope locations are performed by audit teams based in financial reporting framework that has been applied in their the corresponding locations.
Other scope locations for preparation is applicable law and International Financial which the financial statement line items are determined Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European to be immaterial individually and in the aggregate based Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial on both size and risk, are subject to analytical procedures statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of performed by the Group audit team.
The audit scopes the Companies Act 2006. we have adopted are set out below.
During the year, the This report is made solely to the Companys members, Senior Statutory Auditor visited key infrastructure assets as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the and the head office of each full scope business where she Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken attended meetings with management and engaged with the so that we might state to the Companys members those audit team on the planning and execution of our work.
We matters we are required to state to them in an auditors included the full scope component teams in our Group audit report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent planning briefing and interacted regularly with component permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility teams where appropriate throughout the various stages of to anyone other than the Company and the Companys the audit.
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Business Scope Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Pennon Group Plc Full scope As explained more fully in the statement of Directors Viridor Full scope responsibilities set out on page 95, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements South West Water Full scope and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Peninsula Insurance Limited Specific scope financial statements in accordance with applicable law and All other entities Other scope International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing The three full scope components, over which we performed Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
our audit procedures, represent the principal businesses within the Groups operations and account for just under 100% of the Groups revenue and profit before tax and 95% of the Groups total assets.
The only change to the prior year is Peninsula Insurance Limited which has moved from other to specific scope.
96 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
For each risk identified, we have documented our response and audit procedures below and these are broadly consistent with the prior year: Risk of material misstatement Our response to the risks of material misstatement included the following procedures Valuation of goodwill Group We validated managements determination of cash generating units CGUs, through a detailed review of whether they have independent cash The value of goodwill is 339.3 million, as included in flows note15.
The recoverable value of the waste management business, to which goodwill belongs, is sensitive to We audited the underlying cash flow fair value models supporting the changes in assumptions over future landfill volumes, carrying value of Viridor assets discussed below power generation prices and discount rates.
The Groups We agreed input data into the goodwill impairment model and cash flow annual assessment of the recoverable value requires forecasts, to information from the Viridor business as audited by our judgement as to the future cash flow projections and the Viridor component team, and performed sensitivity analysis over this data, discount rates to be used.
Audit Committee commentary including growth rates, volumes, costs and powergen prices is on page 64.
We audited the discount rate calculation applied at Group level, using our internal valuation experts to assist in our review of whether managements assumptions are within an acceptable range based on comparative marketdata We confirmed the clerical accuracy of the models We assessed whether disclosures made are in accordance with IFRS.
Valuation of non-current assets Viridor We evaluated the cash flow forecasts and the key assumptions, agreeing assumptions made to supporting evidence, such as budgets The net book value of these assets is 945.3 million, as and current performance, and using our internal valuation experts to included in note 17.
The Group is required to review the assess managements projection of future electricity prices and whether carrying value of assets when any impairment indicators managements discount rate assumptions are within an acceptable range are identified.
In calculating the recoverable amounts, key based on comparative market data assumptions are made by management over the cash flow forecasts, discount rates and grouping of assets into We compared the strategic plans with prior year plans and assessed CGUs.
Audit Committee commentary is on page 64. changes in these plans over time and managements ability to forecast We evaluated the fair value calculations for any Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal FVLCD recoverable amounts We performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions, including growth rates, volumes, costs and powergen prices We reviewed the impairment model and tested it for clerical accuracy.
Landfill related provisions Viridor We evaluated the forecast costs in the models, agreeing these to supporting evidence such as budgets and current performance Landfill related provisions of 193.0 million are recorded in note 32 and consist of aftercare, restoration and We assessed the reasonableness of material judgements made, including remediation provisions.
expected gas generation and anticipated cost savings to detailed plans and current performance Calculation of the aftercare provision involves significant We reviewed the reasonableness of key assumptions used in the judgement over the expected period of aftercare, the level calculation of the provisions, including the discount rates, inflation rates, of costs to be incurred and the discount rate to be used.
void space and remaining lives of the sites to available market information Key areas of estimation for the restoration provision We performed sensitivity analysis on these key assumptions include the expected restoration costs, the void space to We reviewed the aftercare, restoration and remediation provision models, be filled and timing of site closure.
and ensured that the models are clerically accurate.
Judgement over the remedial action required to comply with current environmental legislation, where breaches have been identified, is key for the remediation provision.
Audit Committee commentary is on page 64. www.
co. uk 2015 97 Financial statements and shareholder information Independent auditors report Continued Independent auditors report to the members of Pennon Group Plc Risk of material misstatement Our response to the risks of material misstatement included the following procedures Revenue recognition across the Groupsoperations South West Water The Groups material revenue streams relate to the We tested key controls linked to system generated information and provision of water and wastewater services by South West around the estimation process Water and revenue generated from the renewable energy, We challenged the key assumptions and estimates made by management recycling and waste management services provided by in recognising revenue Viridor.
ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud We understood the process for the supply of measured services, relating to revenue recognition and for the Group this risk meterreading and related billing in order to challenge the completeness over revenue recognition specifically arises in the following of adjustments to reflect the accrual or deferral of revenue.
This included judgemental areas: considering whether contract terms and conditions were met and revenue South West Water recognised at the correct time in accordance with IFRS Income from measured water services requires an We performed detailed analytical procedures by comparing revenue estimation of the amount of unbilled charges at the balances for the year against expectation and obtained support for year-end.
This is calculated using a combination of significant variances system generated information, based on previous We compared the accrued income to bills raised post year end for a customer volume usage, together with management sample of customers, and compared managements history of estimating judgements as to the likely impact on usage of factors the accrued income to bills raised in the subsequent year such as recent weather patterns.
In performing our journal testing, we paid increased attention to entries Viridor impacting revenue.
Calculations of accrued income on waste management contracts and powergen revenue to be received involve Viridor estimation by management We challenged the key assumptions and estimates made by management in recognising revenue Accounting for revenue from long-term service For material items we re-performed the calculation to confirm the concession arrangements under IFRIC12 requires accuracy of the accrued income recorded by management revenue to be recognised on construction, during service delivery and as a capital return on the asset In performing our journal testing, we paid increased attention to entries impacting revenue, particularly those raised close to the balance Recognition of revenue in the correct period through the sheetdate correct cut-off of invoices raised close to the balance sheet date.
We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted complied with IFRSs, in particular the requirements of IFRIC 12 and whether Audit Committee commentary is on page 64. margins used to recognise revenue were appropriate We performed cut-off testing of invoices raised prior to and after the balance sheet date to ensure revenue has been recognised in the correct period.
Adequacy of the provision for doubtful debts We tested controls over the integrity of data and the report utilised to SouthWestWater generate the ageing and categorisation of debt within South West Waters As shown in note 22, there is a provision of 86.8million billing system at the year-end against gross trade debtors of We tested historic data on collection rates and how this data was used in 282.5 million.
the preparation of the bad debt provision The South West Water provision is calculated using a We challenged the assumptions used by management in determining combination of system generated information on historic the amounts provided against the different categories and age of debt recovery rates and managements judgement of the debt, by comparing these assumptions to historic collection rates and future likely recovery rates.
Audit Committee commentary by considering the impact of changes in the methods adopted by is on page 64. management to collect debt.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions Group We inspected the latest correspondence between the Group and HMRC The Companys current tax liability of 52.2 million shown and reviewed details of any new enquiries that have been opened in note 27, includes 36.6 million in respect of open tax We reviewed and inspected any legal advice or opinion management have computations relating to prior years, where liabilities are obtained in the period in relation to uncertain tax positions yet to be agreed with HM Revenue & Customs HMRC.
We reviewed the adequacy of disclosure in the annual report The Company establishes provisions for individual tax items where the tax position is uncertain.
Audit Committee We obtained an updated view from treasury tax specialists as to HMRCs commentary is on page 64. current position on open matters We challenged the level of provision maintained for uncertain tax positions, in light of evidence obtained We tested whether the tax accounting and disclosures in note 9 complied with the requirements of IAS12 Income Taxes.
98 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Our application of materiality Matters on which we are required to report We apply the concept of materiality both in planning byexception and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: For the purposes of determining whether the financial materially inconsistent with the information in the audited statements are free from material misstatement we define financial statements: or materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in knowledgeable person, relying on the financial statements, the course of performing our audit: or would be changed or influenced.
We also determine a level of performance materiality which we use to determine is otherwise misleading.
the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately In particular, we are required to consider whether we have low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the acquired during the audit and the Directors statement financial statements as a whole.
that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined understandable and whether the annual report appropriately a magnitude for uncorrected misstatements that we judged discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 10 million, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to which is the same as in the prior year, and is approximately you if, in our opinion: 5% of profit before taxation before exceptional items.
This provided the basis for determining the nature, timing and adequate accounting records have not been kept, or extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and returns adequate for our audit have not been received assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining from branches not visited by us: or the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our agreement with the accounting records and returns: or assessment of the Groups overall control environment and being our first year audit, our judgement was that overall certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by performance materiality for the Group should be 50% of law are not made: or materiality, namely 5 million.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage of our total performance materiality.
The Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative size of the component and our view of the risk the Directors statement, set out on page 95, in relation to going concern: and of misstatement at that component.
In the current year the range of performance materiality allocated to components the part of the corporate governance statement relating to was 1 million to 4.25 million.
the Companys compliance with the 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.5 million.
We also agreed to report differences below those thresholds Debbie OHanlon Senior statutory auditor that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both Reading the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and 22 June 2015 in light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Notes: CompaniesAct 2006 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Pennon Group Plc website is the In our opinion: responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept the part of the Directors remuneration report to be no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial audited has been properly prepared in accordance with statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
