Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 105 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Pets at Home Group Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Pets at Home Group plc for the year ended 26 March 2015 set out on pages 108 to 154.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 26 March 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Carrying value of goodwill 952.0m Refer to page 83 Audit & Risk Committee Report, page 119 accounting policy and page 130 financial disclosures.
The risk: Goodwill is a significant item within the Groups balance sheet.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which are the basis of the assessment of recoverability, goodwill is one of the key judgemental areas within our audit.
Market capitalisation is considered to be a key indicator of potential impairment.
The year ended 27 March 2014 came shortly after the Companys IPO, at which point there was significant headroom between market capitalisation and net assets including goodwill.
During the year ended 26 March 2015 there has been some share volatility and although market capitalisation at the time of our audit has recovered, this volatility has increased our focus on the carrying amount of goodwill in the current year audit.
Our response: Our audit procedures included testing of the Groups budgeting procedures upon which the forecasts are based and the principles and integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow model.
We used our own valuation specialist to assist us in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used by the Group and compared the Groups assumptions to externally derived data as well as our own assessments of key inputs such as projected economic growth, cost inflation and discount rates.
We performed break-even analysis to understand the sensitivity of the conclusions reached to changes in assumptions and compared the sum of projected discounted cash flows to the Groups market capitalisation to assess the reasonableness of those cash flows.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Carrying value of inventory 48.5m Refer to page 84 Audit & Risk Committee Report, page 119 accounting policy and page 131 financial disclosures.
The risk: The Group has significant levels of inventory and a number of estimates are involved in arriving at valuation in respect of slow moving and obsolete inventories, some of which have a limited shelf life.
Furthermore there is uncertainty over changes in consumer preferences and spending patterns, which are primarily driven by wider trends in the pet product industry as well as seasonality.
There is a recoverability risk associated with new product launches and the judgement required in forecasting demand, including the possible change in demand between the time the inventory order is placed with the supplier and the date of sale.
These factors all contribute to the risk that the carrying value of inventory exceeds its net realisable value.
Given the level of judgement and estimation involved this is considered to be a key audit risk.
Pets at Home Group Plc 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Pets at Home Group Plc only continued Our response: Our audit procedures included assessing the principles and appropriateness of the Groups inventory provisioning policies based on our understanding of the business and the accuracy of previous provisioning estimates.
In assessing provisions against inventories our audit procedures included testing the Groups controls designed to identify slow moving and obsolete inventories and comparison, by product, of inventory levels to sales data to assess whether slow moving and obsolete inventories had been appropriately identified by the Group, and provided for based on expected recoveries.
We considered realisations of slow moving inventories during the year and post year end and compared these to the Groups expected recoveries for slow moving inventories at the year-end date.
In assessing the accuracy of historic provisioning estimates our audit procedures included the review of amounts subsequently written off inventory during the year in comparison to the provided amounts at the prior year end.
We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of amounts recognised as provision against inventory during the period.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 3.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation of 87.0m, of which it represents 3.4%.
We report to the Audit & Risk Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.15m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 5 reporting components, we subjected 4 to audit for Group reporting purposes and 1 to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results: Number of Group Group profit Group total components revenue % before tax % assets % Audits for Group reporting purposes 4 95.3 79.1 94.9 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 1 4.7 20.9 5.1 Total 5 100 100 100 For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The audits undertaken for Group purposes were all performed to materiality levels set individually for each component and ranged from 2.4m to 0.1m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on all components was performed by the Group audit team.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and information given in the Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 76 to 81 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 107 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit & Risk Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 74, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 76 to 81 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
we have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 75, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
David Bills Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 St Peters Square Manchester M2 3AE 3 June 2015
