Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Petrofac Limited This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and engagement letter dated 9 November 2015.
Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion Petrofac Limiteds financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Group and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups loss and Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs : and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Opinion on other matters requested by the Group and Company In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report set out on pages 26 to 29 and the Governance Report set out on page 79 and pages 86 to 87 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements: the information given in the Strategic Report is consistent with the Group financial statements: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation as described therein.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Petrofac Limited which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Company income statement for the year then ended Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 Company statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income Company statement of other comprehensive income for the year then ended for the year then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Company statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 32 to the financial statements Related notes 1 to 21 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 109 .
indd 109 07 03 2016 11:40 Independent auditors report to the members of Petrofac Limited continued Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
What we concluded to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Revenue and margin recognition The component audit team based in the UAE with close We concluded that revenue including ECOM long term contracts oversight from the primary audit engagement team performed and margin recognised in the the following: year is materially correct on Refer to the Audit Committee Report The appropriate recognition and timing of variation orders VOs.
the basis of our procedures page 88 : Accounting policies page 123 We verified whether VOs recognised in revenue met the conditions performed both at group and and 131 : and Note 4 of the Consolidated prescribed under IAS 11.
We discussed the judgements made by component audit teams.
financial statements page 136 in the timing of VOs being recognised.
For assessed VOs still in ECOM negotiation for a significant period of time, we discussed with Accounting for ECOM long term contracts and challenged management on the likelihood of client approval requires significant management judgement and obtained representations where necessary.
and estimation which increases the risk of The potential for liquidated damages.
We analysed projects bias or error.
behind schedule and discussed with management the likelihood of the liquidated damages claims being levied.
We obtained Significant management judgement is correspondence with clients and verified the consistency of required in recognising revenue on application across contracts.
fixed-price engineering, procurement and The adequacy of contingency provisions.
We verified whether construction contracts and estimation is provision releases were recognised in line with Group accounting applied in recognising variation orders, policy.
We analysed contingency movements throughout the life of project costs-to-complete and provisions for the contract and through discussion, challenged individual project liquidated damages.
These judgements are directors on whether remaining contingency is sufficient to cover also subject to the risk of management residual risks on the project.
override of controls in place.
Determination of the percentage of completion.
We obtained For operation and maintenance contracts an understanding of milestones agreed with the customers based on achievement of KPIs, there is and systems in place to split the contracts into their component estimation involved in the assessment of the parts.
We analysed the impact of VOs in establishing appropriate timing of revenue recognition.
We tested controls around the The complex and material nature of cost estimation process, tested the historical accuracy of previous arrangements that exist in IES increases the forecasts and discussed with project directors and cost likelihood and magnitude of potential controllers.
We also verified that costs were correctly accrued at statement in revenue recognition.
period end and costs-to-complete accurately reflected productivity and latest rates.
Particular focus was placed on the LagganSignificant management judgement and Tormore contract.
precision is required to accurately recognise Accounting for consortium contracts.
We obtained material contracts, revenue on the different commercial assets.
tested the timing of revenue recognised and verified that correct joint arrangement accounting was applied.
We investigated any legal disputes between consortium partners.
We discussed managements estimation of milestones and KPIs achieved and verified whether revenue was recognised in the correct period.
IES contracts Where applicable, we reconciled barrels lifted per entitlement to revenue recognised on these assets.
For tariff based remuneration structures, we vouched monthly revenue to the production data reports which determine revenue under the contract.
For the risk services contract, we tested the related operating expenditure for the year which determines the revenue recognised on the operating phase of the contract.
110 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 110 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements What we concluded to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Potential impairment and fair value The primary audit team performed audit procedures on financial We concluded that the results change of IES assets and JSD6000 models for assets accounted at fair value and for those IES assets of impairment and fair value where impairment indications existed.
re-measurements in respect Refer to the Audit Committee Report of IES assets and the JSD6000 page 88 : Accounting policies page 128 : We obtained the respective discounted cash flow models and are complete and accurate and Note 5 of the Consolidated financial tested key assumptions.
and that the carrying values statements page 138 We compared forecast oil and gas price curves with the market presented at 31 December IES assets data, and tested for reasonableness the longer term oil and 2015 are materially correct.
The low oil price environment has a gas prices: significant impact on the current and We compared planned future operating and capital expenditure future financial performance of IES.
It also and production profiles with those used in prior periods and met influences the level of investment in the with Company reserves assurance personnel to understand industry and demand for Petrofac services.
the key cost and reserve assumptions used: The oil price is a key assumption in the oil We used an internal EY valuation specialist to assist with our and gas assets impairment testing and consideration of the discount rate: financial asset revaluations.
We identified key judgements in respect of the outcome of commercial negotiations and discussed with management In addition, the IES business has not met and corroborated with written communication.
its stretching growth targets and in some cases has not performed in line with the We discussed with management and understood the future plans initial investment case.
This has impacted related to resuming construction of the JSD6000 and corroborated the recoverable amount of assets within to recent documentation.
Operational challenges on certain IES projects have resulted in IES performance being weaker than forecast.
JSD6000 Petrofac has terminated the construction contract for JSD6000 and is appraising proposals for an alternative shipyard, which poses a risk that the value of the vessel may not be recoverable if the project does not proceed.
Taxation We utilised taxation specialists in our London team to identify We concluded that jurisdictions to be included in audit scope.
We also involved managements judgements Refer to the Audit Committee Report local tax specialists in the relevant jurisdictions where we deemed in relation to current and page 88 : Accounting policies page 132 : it necessary.
deferred income tax balances and Note 7 of the Consolidated financial were sound and resulted statements page 139 We identified and discussed tax exposures estimated by in a materially correct management, obtained the risk analysis associated with these The wide geographical spread of the presentation in the Group exposures along with claims or assessments made by tax Groups operations, the complexity of financial statements.
application of local tax rules in many different jurisdictions and transfer pricing We also tested the calculation and disclosure of current and risks affecting the allocation of income deferred tax to ensure compliance with local tax rules and the and costs charged between jurisdictions Groups accounting policies.
and businesses increase the risk of We corroborated managements assessment of the likelihood misstatement of tax balances.
of the realisation of deferred tax balances by analysing future The assessment of tax exposures by business performance.
management requires judgement given the structure of individual contracts and the increasing activity of tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which Petrofac operates.
Furthermore, the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities needs to be performed regularly to ensure that any changes in local tax laws and profitability of associated contracts are appropriately considered.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 111 .
indd 111 07 03 2016 11:40 Independent auditors report to the members of Petrofac Limited continued What we concluded to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Laggan-Tormore related matters Potential prior year adjustment We reported to the Committee We discussed and evaluated managements quantitative and at the August 2015 interim Refer to the Audit Committee Report qualitative analysis of amounts relating to prior periods and, whilst review that we were satisfied page 88 and Note 2 of the Consolidated judgemental, we considered that assessment to be reasonable.
on qualitative and quantitative financial statements page 125 grounds, and after taking into The estimated impact on profit before tax in the prior period was account the level of disclosures 4.5% to 9.5% before exceptional items.
Further, we assessed the Potential prior year restatement made in the interim and full following qualitative factors: The Board commissioned KPMG to carry year financial statements, that out a review of the circumstances leading The total losses on Laggan-Tormore, which at 31 December 2015 no restatement was necessary.
up to the 19 April 2015 market update on exceed US$600m We updated this analysis and the Laggan-Tormore project with a view Impact on prior year net assets of 2.8% reached the same conclusion to identifying the issues for consideration The lack of impact on banking covenants, management as at 31 December 2015. relating to the incremental losses and their remuneration, and historical trends and effect on the prior year.
The level of disclosure made by the Company in the interim We reported that we concur and full year financial statements with the Groups disclosures The Group has stated in its financial statements in relation to the significant that its losses on Laggan-Tormore recognised After considering carefully the nature and the quantum of the weakness in internal controls in the prior year were understated by estimated amounts relating to prior period, and qualitative relating to this contract.
between US$27m and US$57m after tax.
significance of the adjustment, we concurred with the directors that these amounts, whilst significant, were not material and the In respect of liquidated damages, The Directors have concluded that no prior period financial statements did not require restating.
we are satisfied that judgement restatement of the 2014 reported results not to book a provision has is required.
In reaching this conclusion, The estimated impact on prior periods has been charged to been based on appropriate the Directors considered the quantum the income statement in the current period and the Group has analysis and is reasonable of the prior year overstatement of profit separately identified losses on this contract as a separate item.
in conjunction with relevant qualitative We concurred with this accounting treatment and with the detailed considerations.
These are further explained disclosures made in the financial statements about the impact We have completed our in note 2 to the financial statements.
of the misstatement on the prior periods financial statements.
planned procedures on the costs-to-complete and are Internal controls Internal controls satisfied that the basis upon In light of the challenges faced by the We concur with the Company that there existed a significant which the contract losses have Company in concluding on the appropriate deficiency in internal controls intended to mitigate material been calculated was rigorous recognition of losses on the Laggan-Tormore misstatements on the Laggan-Tormore contract.
We have and these losses are materially contract, it was identified that this may considered the mitigating actions taken and have assigned stated at 31 December 2015. represent a significant deficiency in further resources to ensure these actions appropriately reduce internal controls.
The Audit Committee the risk of further misstatements on this contract.
has concluded that such a deficiency Costs-to-complete existed in 2015 and has implemented We have also assigned further resources to audit, in detail, the mitigating actions in the 2015 year end costs-to-complete on this contract at year end.
obtaining detailed schedules, challenging key elements to the costs, Costs-to-complete including expected recoveries, reconciliation of vendor statements As the contract is nearing completion at year and holding discussions with senior management to corroborate end, and in light of the control weaknesses the assumptions made.
above, there is a heightened risk of material Liquidated damages misstatement in determining the remaining We have discussed the likelihood of being levied with liquidated costs-to-complete of the project at year end.
damages with senior management and the Audit Committee, Liquidated damages and obtained supporting evidence for this judgement.
The Group has made a significant judgement in determining whether potential liquidated damages arising from contract delays will be successfully pursued by the customer, and no provision has been recorded in the current year.
112 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 112 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to initial recognition and determination of subsequent accounting at inception for contracts in the Integrated Energy Services segment of the business.
In the current year, this risk has been removed because no new contracts have been entered into during 2015 which require determination of initial accounting.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to revenue and margin recognition related to ECOM contracts only.
In the current year, this revenue recognition risk has been expanded and now also includes revenue recognition of existing IES contracts.
Due to the decreased level of materiality in the current year, IES contracts have a relatively greater significance to the financial statements.
In the current year, we have also included a risk of potential impairment of the JSD6000 vessel due to the termination of the shipyard contract for this vessel in October.
The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, we selected 13 components covering entities within Jersey, Malaysia, Mexico, United Kingdom, Tunisia and the United Arab Emirates, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 13 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 8 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For another 2 components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
For 1 component review scope component, we primarily performed analytical procedures and inquiries of management.
For the remaining 2 components specified procedures scope components we performed procedures on fixed assets and financial assets balances only.
The audit scope for specified procedures are those where we perform procedures that address only specific account assertions rather than the account balance as a whole.
The reporting components where we performed full scope audit procedures accounted for 89% 2014: 95% of the Groups profit before tax, Laggan-Tormore related losses and exceptional items, 90% 2014: 65% of the Groups revenue and 89% 2014: 76% of the Groups total assets.
The audit scope of specific scope components did not include testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
For the current year, the specific scope components accounted for 3% 2014: 24% of the Groups revenue.
Of the remaining components that together represent 11% of the Groups Profit before tax, Laggan Tormore related losses and exceptional items none are individually greater than 6% of the Group for this metric.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including assessing and testing managements group wide controls.
We also performed analytical review on a component basis and tested consolidation journals to identify the existence of, and respond to, any further risks of misstatement that could have been material to the Group financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
Profit before tax, Laggan Tormore related losses and exceptional items % Revenue % Total assets % 2 7 9 16 3 5 89 90 89 Full scope components Full scope components Full scope components Speci c scope components Speci c scope components Speci c scope components Other procedures Other procedures Other procedures Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 113 .
indd 113 07 03 2016 11:40 Independent auditors report to the members of Petrofac Limited continued Changes from the prior year Our scope allocation in the current year is broadly consistent with 2014 in terms of overall coverage of the Group and the number of full and specific scope entities.
However we have made some changes in the identity of components subject to full and specific scope audit procedures.
Changes in our scope since the 2014 audit included moving the OPO business in the United Kingdom from a specific scope to a full audit scope component due to its higher proportional contribution to the Group in the current year.
In light of decreased materiality, to ensure appropriate coverage of group audit risk related to revenue recognition from a quantitative and qualitative perspective the OPO Iraq business has been brought into scope as a specific scope component for revenue and cost of sales and related balance sheet accounts in the current year.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Audit procedures were performed on the 8 full scope components by our component audit teams in Dubai 4, Malaysia 2, Mexico 1 and Aberdeen 1.
For the 2 specific scope and 2 specified procedures scope components, where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that a senior member of the team visits each of the full audit scope locations at least once a year.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the primary audit team including a primary team audit partner to the component teams in the United Arab Emirates 4 full scope and 1 specific scope component, Malaysia 2 full scope components and Mexico 1 full scope component.
The Global Team Planning Event was held in London with representatives of the teams from Aberdeen, United Arab Emirates, Mexico and Malaysia all attending.
Dependent on the timing of our visits, these involved discussion of the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, consideration of the approach to revenue recognition, reviewing key working papers, attending the audit planning meeting and attending the audit closing meeting, including the discussion of fraud and error.
In concluding the year end audit the primary team visited the main operating and finance location in Sharjah, UAE to perform the audit of the consolidation and financial statements and to interact closely with the local team.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality The scope of our work is influenced by materiality.
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement, we define materiality as the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be US$25m 2014: US$30m, which represented 5% 2014: 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
We believe that adjusting for the items described below provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is appropriate in the light of the volatile market conditions, driven by the extended decline in oil prices and exceptional cost overruns on Laggan-Tormore contract.
For 2015, these non-recurring items related to exceptional items and certain re-measurements of US$355m refer to Note 5 of the financial statements and Laggan-Tormore relates losses of US$480m refer to Note 3 of the financial statements.
These two items are subject to a combination of full scope audit procedures and specified procedures.
Starting basis Reported pre-tax loss profit US$ 335 m 2014: US$171m Adjustments Exceptional items increase basis by US$835m 2014: US$429m Laggan-Tormore relates losses US$480m Exceptional items and certain re-measurements US$355m Materiality Totals US$500m 2014: US$600m Materiality of US$25m 2014: US$30m 5% of materaility basis 114 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
indd 114 07 03 2016 11:40 Financial statements Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% 2014: 50% of our planning materiality, namely US$12.5m 2014: US$15m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicate a higher risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was US$2.5m to US$10.0m 2014: US$3.8m to US$10.7m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of US$1.25m 2014: US$1.5m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Reclassification differences are only reported to the Audit Committee where the difference exceeds 2% of the applicable primary financial statement line items.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: nd the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 107, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In addition the Company has also instructed us to: report as to whether the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements: report whether the information given in the Strategic Report is consistent with the Group financial statements: report whether the section of the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation described therein: and review the Directors statement in relation to going concern as set out on page 107, and longer-term viability, as set out on page 29 which for a premium listed UK incorporated company is specified for review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 115 .
indd 115 07 03 2016 11:40 Independent auditors report to the members of Petrofac Limited continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information We have no reporting in the annual report is: exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Jersey Under Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no Law 1991 reporting exceptions proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or proper returns to report.
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent companys financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review The Company has voluntarily complied with, and has instructed us to review: We have no requirements exceptions the Directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 107, and longer-term to report.
viability, set out on page 29.
This statement is specified for review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority for premium listed UK incorporated companies.
We are required to review: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw We have reporting attention to in relation to: nothing material to add or the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment to draw of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, attention to.
future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
John Flaherty for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP London 23 February 2016 Notes: 1.
T he maintenance and integrity of the Petrofac Limited web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
L egislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
116 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 .
