Financial statements Independent auditors report To the members of Playtech plc Opinion on financial statements of Playtech Plc In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of Playtech plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise the: Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Financial Position: Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Cashflows, and Related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements and significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are, by their nature, inherently uncertain see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
We primarily focussed our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, including the risk of management override and bias, forming our own judgements and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our Group audit in the current year are noted below.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of audit focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 55 to 57: 82 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Title Risk Response Revenue recognition The Group has a number of revenue streams.
We assessed the design and implementation The details of the accounting policies applied of the controls over the Groups revenue cycle.
during the period are given in Note 2 to the We assessed whether the revenue recognition financial statements.
policies adopted by the group comply with Management make certain judgements around IFRS as adopted by the European Union and revenue recognition and the treatment of Industry standard.
contractual arrangements for revenue streams We considered the audit risks associated with new entered into.
revenue streams in the period including those of During the year, the Group completed the the Financial Trading Division and designed our acquisition of the Financial Trading Division testing strategy to mitigate the assessed risks.
and as such have given consideration to the We tested revenue through a combination nature of revenue generated by this Group and of analytical and substantive procedures.
Our the relevant accounting treatment.
work included the use of IT audit data analytic There is a potential risk that revenue is recorded techniques to underpin our substantive testing incorrectly from a timing perspective and of the revenue recognised by both the Gaming inappropriately recognised on a gross versus and Financial Trading Divisions.
We reviewed a sample of key contracts entered into during the year to assess whether the revenue had been recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy and whether any other terms within the contract had any material accounting or disclosure implications.
Impairment of Goodwill, In accordance with IAS 36, the Group monitors the We considered whether there were any indications capitalised development carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles of impairment in respect of intangible assets.
costs and other intangibles for indications of impairment.
The Group In conjunction with our internal valuation performs annual impairment reviews for goodwill, specialists, we challenged the appropriateness of other intangibles where there are indicators of the key assumptions used in the discounted cash impairment and for capitalised development costs flow models prepared by management and applied relating to projects not launched as at the year end.
sensitivities to assess the potential impairment of Impairment reviews require significant judgement goodwill and those assets where indications of from management and are inherently based on impairment were present.
Our work was based assumptions in respect of future profitability.
on our assessment of the historical accuracy of the Groups estimates in previous periods, our If the carrying value of these assets exceed their understanding of the commercial prospects of the recoverable amount there is a risk of material assets, identification and analysis of changes in misstatement in the carrying value of these assets.
assumptions from prior periods and an assessment of the consistency of assumptions across the impairment reviews.
IAS 36 also requires management to test intangible assets not yet available for use such as projects in development for impairment.
We selected a sample of projects not yet launched at the balance sheet date and confirmed that there remains a future intent to launch.
Further to this we reviewed the results of managements impairment review of these assets on a portfolio basis.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosure provided in the Group financial statements.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 83 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued Title Risk Response Compliance risk Legal, Given the continual changes in the regulatory We considered how the Group monitors legal and regulatory and taxation environment of the gambling and financial trading regulatory developments and their assessment sectors in many countries across the world, there of the potential impact on the business, and also is a risk that potential material legal or regulatory considered the internal and external advice taken matters are not disclosed or provided for.
in respect of these developments.
We discussed with Management how they manage, control The Group have compliance obligations that range and operate Group companies in the countries in from administration of their licences to assessing which they are registered.
This included how the the impact of changes in Country-specific and panGroup considers tax as part of the overall business regional rules and regulations on its businesses.
planning and how they monitor the rules and The e-commerce business and operational practices governing the taxation of e-commerce structure of the Playtech Group requires activity that is evolving in many countries.
management judgement with regard to the We discussed with the Groups Compliance and assessment and interpretation of domestic and Legal teams whether there were any known international tax laws.
The taxation of e-commerce instances of material breaches in regulatory and is still an evolving matter for tax authorities.
licence compliance that required disclosure or The Group makes certain provisions and disclosures required provisions to be made in the financial required under IFRS for outstanding legal and statements.
We discussed the assertions of the regulatory disputes based on Managements best Groups Compliance and Legal teams with the estimate of where there is a probable outflow Groups principal external legal advisors, with of economic benefits.
Where the Group do not no matters to report.
consider the likelihood of a provision being We discussed with senior management how they probable, the Group will disclose the existence manage, control and operate Group companies of a contingent liability unless that likelihood in the countries in which they are incorporated or of occurrence is considered to be remote when registered.
This included how the Group considers no disclosure is required.
tax as part of the overall business planning and how they monitor the rules and practices governing the taxation of e-commerce activity that is evolving in many countries.
As part of the audit team we have tax specialists who assessed the risks in the jurisdictions in which Playtech has a significant presence.
As part of this process we liaised with the local audit teams and tax specialists in those jurisdictions to assess the provisioning for current and deferred taxes.
We considered the latest externally prepared advice received by management with regard to any exposure to taxation in existing or proposed territories in which the Group operates or intends to operate, and confirmed that there is currently no correspondence from tax authorities which would indicate a material risk in respect of tax.
84 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Title Risk Response Related party transactions There is a risk that disclosures in respect of related We assessed the design and implementation of the party transactions are incomplete or that the Groups policies and procedures in respect of the assertion that the related party transactions are capturing of related party transactions.
on an arms length basis is unsupported.
We obtained a list of related parties from Management.
We gave consideration to the completeness of the list based on our knowledge of related parties and those confirmed by the substantial shareholder and the directors of the Company.
We ensured all transactions and balances with those entities identified as related parties were disclosed in accordance with IAS 24, including consideration of whether material transactions with the substantial shareholder or companies under their control were correctly disclosed as being on an arms length basis.
Business combinations On 7 May 2015, the Group acquired TradeFX now We challenged the assumptions underpinning TradeFX renamed Markets Limited and created its Financial the significant judgements used by management Trading Division.
including the assessment of contingent consideration and the fact that the additional Management are required to make significant information that has become available since the judgements in assessing the fair values of acquisition provides better information about contingent consideration and of the assets and the circumstances that existed at the date of liabilities acquired.
external valuations experts to prepare the purchase price allocation exercise.
We used our valuation specialists to review and evaluate the fair value of assets and liabilities Following the acquisition of Markets Limited recognised and consider the judgemental areas management completed their provisional and those subject to significant estimation.
assessment of the fair value of the consideration and the assets acquired as part of the interim accounts to 30 June 2015.
As permitted by IFRS 3, management have given consideration to information that has become available since the acquisition that provides better information about the circumstances that existed at the date of acquisition.
As such the accounting for the acquisition has been finalised taking this information into account.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 85 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued Changes in the assessment of risks from the prior year As part of the 2015 year end audit we have reassessed the significance of certain risks which were disclosed in the period year audit report: Capitalised development costs We had previously assessed the capitalisation of development costs as a significant risk reported within our audit report.
Having reflected on the level of capitalised development costs in the overall context of the business and the lack of any concerns arising from our testing in previous years we no longer consider this to be a significant risk.
Business combinations Business combinations had not been considered a risk to report in our 2014 audit report.
Given the significance of the acquisition of the Trade FX business in the period this was considered to be a significant risk to be reported in our audit report for the current year.
Our consideration of materiality We consider materiality to be the magnitude by which misstatements, including omissions, could influence the economic decisions of reasonable users that are taken on the basis of the financial statements.
We apply materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
We use a lower materiality level, performance materiality, to determine the extent of testing required in order to reduce the probability to an appropriately low level that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed materiality.
Level of materiality applied and rationale We consider Adjusted EBITDA to be the critical performance measure for the Group.
Using this benchmark we set materiality at 12.1m 2014: 10.4m being 5% 2014: 5% of Adjusted EBITDA.
In setting this level of materiality we considered the quantum of materiality was appropriate in comparison to other benchmarks: 1.9% of revenue: 0.6% of total assets.
Our materiality level is higher than the previous year reflecting the continued growth in earnings of the Group.
Performance materiality was set at 75% of materiality.
In setting the level of performance materiality we considered a number of factors including the expected total value of known and likely misstatements based on past experience and other factors and Managements attitude toward proposed adjustments.
Component materiality We set materiality for each component of the Group based on a percentage of materiality dependent on the size and our assessment of the risk of material misstatement of that component.
Component materiality ranged from 3.15m to 6.3m.
Agreement with the Audit Committee We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences individually in excess of 500k.
We also agreed to report differences below these thresholds that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Misstatements below these levels will not necessarily be evaluated as immaterial as we also take account of the nature of the identified misstatements, and the particular circumstances of their occurrence, when evaluating their effect on the financial statements as a whole.
Overview of the scope of our audit In determining the scope of our audit we considered the level of work to be performed at each component in order to ensure that sufficient assurance was gained to allow us to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group as a whole.
We tailored the extent of the work to be performed at each component, either by us, as the Group audit team, component auditors within the BDO network or non-BDO member firms, based on our assessment of the risk of material misstatement at each component.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the Group as a whole which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
86 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Classification of components The 5 components that are considered significant components defined as those that were greater than 15% of Adjusted EBITDA, or where the risks of the component were significantly different to the group risks were audited by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team centrally performed the audit of 100% of group revenue and the audit of intangible assets including development costs using the materiality levels set out above.
For the 24 components not considered significant, the component auditors were asked to perform review procedures or specific scope procedures on certain balances based on their relative size, risks in the business and our knowledge of those entities appropriate to respond to the risk of material misstatement.
Review and specific scope procedures were performed by the Group audit team or BDO network firms on 21 reporting components and by non-BDO member firms on a further 3 reporting components.
Summary audit scope Revenue Adjusted EBITDA Total assets Full audit Specic procedures Group level procedures 100% 99% 92% Based on the above scope we were able to conclude that sufficient and appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis to form our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement on page 47 relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 87 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued Statement regarding the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the company We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated, the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements, and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 80, the Directors are responsible for preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements and in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements performed in accordance with ISAs UK and Ireland An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
The purpose of this report and restrictions on its use by persons other than the members of the Company, as a body Our report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 80C of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters that we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Matthew White For and on behalf of BDO LLP Chartered Accountants London United Kingdom 25 February 2016 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
88 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
