FINANCIALS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF POUNDLAND GROUP PLC ONLY Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Poundland Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2015 set out on pages 66 to 109.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 29 March 2015 and of the Groups profit for the 52 weeks then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risk of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit was as follows.
Carrying value of inventory 113.3 million Refer to page 43 Audit and Risk Committee Report, page 74 accounting policy and page 90 financial disclosures.
The risk The Group holds a significant amount of inventory across a broad and diverse product range.
Changes in consumer tastes and demands may mean that it cannot be sold or that sales prices are discounted to less than the current inventory carrying value.
Estimating the future demand for, and hence the net realisable value of, these products is inherently subjective.
Our response Our audit procedures in this area included testing the design and effectiveness of the Groups controls over the identification of slow moving or obsolete products and obtaining an understanding of the Groups process for measuring the amount of provision required.
We critically assessed the Groups provision for those identified slow moving and obsolete products by assessing: the ageing of inventory: product lines with a cost in excess of expected net selling price: the level of expected price discounting and the level of discounting activity in previous years.
Furthermore, we performed analysis over the stock provision held at the period end as a percentage of stock and compared this to our expectations based on our knowledge of the business.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures see Note 30 about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provision.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 6 million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of Group Total Revenue of which it represents 0.5%.
We report to the Audit and Risk Committee any corrected and uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.3 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed using the materiality levels set out above and covered 100% of total Group revenue, total Group profit before tax and total Group assets.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 64 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit and Risk Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 31, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 37 relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 62, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Graham Neale Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants One Snowhill Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham 18th June 2015 www.
