86 Premier Farnell Independent auditors report to the members ofPremier Farnell Plc Report on the financial statements What we have audited Premier Farnell Plcs financial statements comprise: Our opinion In our opinion: the Consolidated balance sheet as at 1 February 2015: the Company balance sheet as at 1February 2015: Premier Farnell Plcs consolidated financial statements and the Consolidated income statement and consolidated Company financial statements the financial statements statement of comprehensive income for the year give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the then ended: Companys affairs as at 1 February 2015 and of the Groups the Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year profit and cash flows for the year then ended: then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the in accordance with International Financial Reporting year thenended: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Accounting policies: and the Company financial statements have been properly the notes to the financial statements, which include other prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally .
Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 4 million, which represents 5% of profit before tax before those items which are identified as adjusting items set out separately on the face of the consolidated Materiality income statement.
We conducted audit work in 10 countries covering 31 reporting units.
Audit Scope The reporting units subject to audit procedures accounted for 81% of Group revenues and 85% of Group adjusted profit before tax.
Areas of focus Valuation of pension obligations.
Presentation of income statement adjusting items.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 87 The scope of our audit and our areas of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International As the element14 provisioning methodologies are dependent Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
on the accurate recording and valuation of electronic component inventory, we understood and tested the key We designed our audit by determining materiality and controls over inventory recording in the element14 business.
assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors To confirm the completeness and accuracy of inventory made subjective judgements, for example in respect of recording and reporting, we tested the automated three-waysignificant accounting estimates that involved making match control of purchase orders, goods received notes and assumptions and considering future events that are inherently purchase invoices and the controls over the complete and uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of accurate updating of inventory records.
We tested cycle count management override of internal controls, including evaluating controls over inventory held at distribution centres, attending a whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that sample of cycle counts and checking the items counted at the represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
distribution centres were accurately recorded in the inventory records.
Our testing supported the completeness and The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect accuracy of inventory recording and reporting.
on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus below.
We have also set In order to test the value attributed to the inventory, we tested out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas the controls for the authorisation of changes to inventory cost in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as data and performed substantive testing of inventory costing by a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our agreeing a sample of inventory costs to external invoice which procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a supported the value attributed to the inventory.
complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
We evaluated and challenged the Directors judgements on the application of provisioning policies and the methodologies Area of focus used and considered if these remained appropriate in light of the products held by the Group and agreed that they did.
element14 inventory valuation Refer to page 55 Audit Committee Report and the Accounting We tested application of the Groups provisioning policies for the Directors disclosures of the related accounting methodologies by agreeing that the value of inventory, the policies, judgements and estimates.
ageing of inventory and product sales information which determine the appropriate category for the provision were The Group has significant inventory holdings at a number being appropriately extracted from the system on a sample of reporting units.
Group inventories at the year end were of products and re-performed the calculation of inventory 260.9 million.
Of this balance, a significant proportion is provision on that sample of products which confirmed the electronic component inventory in the element14 business, inventory provisions were being calculated appropriately.
91% of which is included within the reporting units subject to audit procedures.
We examined the level of inventory write offs and compared them to previous provisions held by the Group to assess The Groups operating model is designed to facilitate a high the Directors accuracy in estimating inventory provisions level of electronic component inventory availability to enable and found them to be reasonable.
To assess new product the Group to provide customers with access to a broad range categories, we examined sales reports which demonstrated of stock and to be able to provide fast and efficient delivery of the sales profile of new products over a three year period products.
The products are regularly updated to provide the and confirmed the Group policy for calculating provisions latest technologies to customers and the Group has made for new products is also reasonable.
significant investments in new electronic and technology components in the last two years to increase product availability and extend the range.
Accordingly, inventory management is a critical business process.
The changes in technology and investment in new products increase the risk of inventory becoming slow moving or obsolete.
Inventory is held at cost less a provision for slow moving and obsolete stock.
The inventory provision methodology is based on the level and value of inventory, the volume of sales and assessment of slow moving and obsolete inventory and requires a significant amount of judgement.
88 Premier Farnell Independent auditors report to the members of Premier Farnell Plc continued Valuation of post employment benefits Presentation of income statement adjusting items Refer to the Accounting policies for the Directors disclosures Refer to page 56 Audit Committee Report and note 2 in of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates.
The Group has defined benefit pension plans in the UK and The Groups strategy involves the development of a global US which have gross post retirement assets of 206.2 million customer and supply chain model.
As part of this Group and gross post retirement liabilities of 256.6 million.
In strategy, in FY15 the Group announced a move to an addition to these two principal pension plans the Group integrated global organisational structure in its element14 provides other post-retirement medical benefits.
The total businesses and has reported costs associated with evaluating post employment benefits obligation is a net liability of and designing the programme in FY15.
These costs are 70.7 million, which is significant in the context of both reported by the Group as adjusting items on the Consolidated the overall balance sheet and the results of the Group.
income statement and are presented separately in arriving at an adjusted profit performance measure.
The valuation of the pension and post-retirement medical benefit liabilities requires significant levels of judgement and We focused on this area because the presentation of such technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions, items is not defined by IFRSs and it therefore requires a number of which are volatile.
Changes in a number of judgement by the Directors when identifying such items and the key assumptions including salary increases, inflation, justifying their separate disclosure.
Consistency in identifying discount rates and mortality can have a material impact and disclosing these items as adjusting is also important to on the calculation of the liabilities.
maintain comparability of the results year on year.
The Group uses independent third party actuarial experts The judgements involved in calculating and presenting these to calculate the pension and post-retirement medical costs in the income statement include assessing that the benefit liabilities.
costs relate to the period under review and assessing that the costs are not normal operating costs but by their nature, size How our audit addresed the area of focus or incident are appropriate to be classified as adjusting items.
We evaluated the Groups key judgements taking into account the specific characteristics of the Groups UK and US pension How our audit addresed the area of focus plans and post-retirement medical benefits plan.
We assessed We evaluated the Directors approach to the identification the assumptions used by the Directors with respect to discount and disclosure of adjusting items to confirm the basis for rates, inflation rates and mortality rates by comparing them presenting and calculating adjusting items has been applied to our own, independently formed expectations.
Based on consistently and justifiably and assessing whether the our audit work we found that the assumptions used by the classification was in line with the Companys accounting Directors were supportable and within our expected range.
policy set out on page 99 of the financial statements.
We also read and assessed the disclosures made in the In FY15, the adjusting items recorded on the income statement financial statements, including disclosures of the assumptions totalled 4.9 million.
The costs identified as adjusting items are used, and concluded they were appropriate.
primarily costs associated with the reorganisation programme and include consultancy fees and severance costs.
We tested a sample of costs which confirmed the costs relate to the period under review.
We have also assessed whether these costs are non-operational in nature and therefore by their nature are appropriate to be classified as adjusting items.
We found that the classification judgements and disclosures made by management were in line with the Groups accounting policy and that the costs are appropriate to include within adjusting items in the consolidated income statement.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 89 How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group financial statements comprise a consolidation of 61 reporting units in 22 countries.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Groups operating reporting units vary significantly in size and we identified 29 reporting units that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures over certain balances and transactions were performed at a further two reporting units, to give appropriate coverage of all material balances at both divisional and Group levels.
We conducted work in 10 countries and the Group engagement team visited multiple reporting sites in the UK and North America.
Together, the reporting units subject to audit procedures were responsible for 81% of Group revenues and 85% of Group adjusted profit before tax.
Further specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including adjusting items, taxation, goodwill, treasury, pension obligations and share-based payments, were performed at the local headquarters of each of the divisions and at the Groups Head Office.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 4 million 2014: 4 million.
5% of profit before tax before those items which are identified as adjusting items set out How we determined it separately on the face of the consolidated income statement.
We believe that profit before tax adjusted for those items which are set out separately on the face of the consolidated income statement provides us with a consistent year on year basis for Rationale for benchmark applied determining materiality, eliminating the volatility of their impact and applying our materiality calculations to the reported profit on which the Group is normally measured.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.2 million 2014: 0.2 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 61, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
90 Premier Farnell Independent auditors report to the members of Premier Farnell Plc continued Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 40 to 43 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: - materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or We have no exceptions to report arising from - apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of this responsibility.
the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or - otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 60, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for We have no exceptions to report arising from members to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy this responsibility.
is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 54, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report arising from describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters this responsibility.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for We have no exceptions to report arising from our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or this responsibility.
the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 91 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on pages 60 and 61, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Caroline Roxburgh Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory AuditorsLondon 24 April 2015
