PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 37 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of PZ Cussons Plc Audit scope Report on the Group financial We conducted audit work in four countries in which the statements Group has significant operations.
The reporting units we audited accounted for 74 per cent Our opinion of Group revenue and 79 per cent of Group profit before tax In our opinion, PZ Cussons Plcs group financial statements and exceptional items.
the financial statements : The Group engagement team visited one of the component give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as audit teams, being the Groups largest component, Nigeria, at 31May 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year to attend the audit clearance meeting and to discuss the then ended: audit approach and findings with the local audit team.
have been properly prepared in accordance with For those countries not visited in the current year we International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as maintained regular contact with the local team and adopted by the European Union: and evaluated the outcome of their audit work.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Areas of focus Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment.
What we have audited Accounting for, and presentation of, exceptional items.
PZ Cussons Plcs financial statements comprise: Accounting for customer rebates, discounts and other trade the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31May 2015: promotional spend.
the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Determination of direct tax provisions.
Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: Selection of assumptions in relation to defined benefit pension scheme obligations.
the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: Accounting for the acquisitions of five:am and Nutricima.
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the The scope of our audit and our areas of focus year then ended: and We conducted our audit in accordance with International the notes to the financial statements, which include a Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and made subjective judgements, for example in respect of IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual of management override of internal controls, including Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Our audit approach The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest Overview effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources Materiality and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address Overall group materiality: 5.4m which represents these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the 5 per cent of profit before tax and exceptional items.
financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
38 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of PZ Cussons Plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment Refer to page 31 of the statement of corporate governance, page 51 We evaluated the process by which management prepared its of the statement of accounting policies and note 10 of the consolidated cash flow forecasts and compared them against the latest Board financial statements.
We evaluated the historical accuracy of forecasts, for example, comparing the forecasts used in the prior The Group has goodwill of 57.6m and other indefinite lived year model to the actual performance of the CGU in the current intangible assets of 294.1m as at 31May 2015 which are required year.
These procedures enabled us to determine the accuracy of to be tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Management has the forecasting process.
Through this work actual performance of allocated these assets to individual cash generating units CGUs, the CGUs for the year ended 31May 2015 was identified as being in there is judgement around how these CGUs are identified.
line with the forecasts used as part of our work over impairment in There is further judgement around the determination of recoverable the prior year.
amount of the GCUs, being the higher of value-in-use and fair value We evaluated revenue and profit forecasts included in less costs to sell.
We focused on this area because the determination managements value in use calculations.
We compared forecast of the recoverable amounts involves judgements and estimates based growth rates with historical performance as well as gaining an on managements view of the future results and prospects of the understanding of key factors and judgements applied in business, the appropriate discount rates and other key assumptions, determining future growth rate assumptions.
We inspected including revenue and profit growth rates in the short and long term, detailed forecast plans for each CGU which provided evidence of to be applied and specific risk factors applied to the CGUs.
the key drivers for growth included within the cash flow forecasts.
As the Groups CGUs relate to different geographies including the We assessed the appropriateness of managements discount rates, UK, Nigeria and Australia specific consideration needs to be given including the specific risk factors applied to the Nutricima CGU to to macro-economic and CGU specific risks in determining the most reflect the specific risks associated with operating CGUs in Nigeria.
Specific risk factors for Nutricima The discount factors applied were consistent with those of peers include currency risk, inflation differentials and country risk premium and industry comparators for all CGUs.
due to the trading environment in Nigeria.
We challenged management on the appropriateness of its sensitivity calculations and also applied our own sensitivity analysis to the forecast cash flows and long term growth rates to ascertain the extent to which reasonable adverse changes would, either individually or in aggregate, require the impairment of goodwill and other intangibles.
From the work performed no reasonably possible change in any of the assumptions was identified that would give rise to an impairment.
Accounting for, and presentation of, exceptional items Refer to page 31 of the statement of corporate governance, page 50 We challenged managements rationale for the designation of of the statement of accounting policies and note 3 of the consolidated certain items as exceptional and assessed such items against the financial statements.
Groups accounting policy and consistency of treatment with prior periods.
We considered the items to materially meet the Groups In the past few years the Group has had significant levels of definition of exceptional items and, given the nature of the supply exceptional items which are disclosed separately within the Income chain optimisation and systems and structure programs, Statement and are excluded from managements reporting of the considered these costs to be exceptional in nature.
The provision underlying performance of the Group.
for the Nigerian government receivable is considered to be an The nature and use of these exceptional items is explained within exceptional item in line with the Groups accounting policy given the Group accounting policy and includes restructuring costs, gains the material amount of the provision recognised and the one off or losses arising on acquisitions or disposals and costs resulting from nature of the provision.
We assessed the Groups policy for exceptional items which is This year the Group has identified 22.8m of exceptional items which focused on material one off costs and projects and considered the primarily relate to the Groups supply chain optimisation program, the policy to be in accordance with IAS 1.
Groups structure and systems program, the acquisition of five:am, We considered whether there were items that were recorded the divestment and sale of the Polish manufacturing facility and the within underlying profit that we determined to be exceptional provision against a Nigerian government receivable.
in nature and should have been included within exceptional items We focused on this area, specifically to assess whether the items and found no such items.
identified by management meet the definition within the Groups accounting policy and have been treated consistently, because the identification of such items requires judgement by the Directors.
Consistency in the identification and presentation of these items is important to ensure comparability of year on year reporting within the Annual Report.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 39 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for customer rebates, discounts and other trade promotional spend Refer to page 31 of the statement of corporate governance and page 52 Our audit procedures included understanding and evaluating of the statement of accounting policies.
the controls and systems related to the trade spend process and selectively testing those controls on which we planned As is industry practice, in each country in which the Group operates, to rely.
Testing of controls included checking for appropriate but primarily in the UK and Australia, there are numerous types of authorisation for promotions and rebates and controls over the complex commercial arrangements with retailers and other matching of customer claims against accrued amounts.
Our customers that have a range of terms such as promotions, rebates approach combined testing managements controls and tests and discounts.
of details and, where applicable, additional substantive audit Estimates of the obligations at a reporting date in connection with procedures to address specific areas of judgement.
No material these arrangements trade spend accruals are material and can be control deficiencies were identified.
These judgements impact the reported results of the As part of our review of component teams work the Group country, segment and the Group and in particular influence the engagement team was specifically involved in determining the calculation of Net revenue and Country operating profit, both audit approach in this area to be satisfied that sufficient focus of which are key performance indicators for management was placed on the more judgemental areas.
As a result of this incentive schemes.
involvement we were satisfied that, whilst complex, the area was Trade spend promotions have varying terms, some of which are well understood and sufficient focus was placed on this risk area.
supported by annual contracts, and others of which are based on Audit procedures across individual components included the shorter term arrangements entered into during the year.
In addition following testing on a sample basis: the level and timing of promotions for individual stock keeping units varies from period to period, and activity can span over a year end.
evaluating the accuracy of the prior year trade spend balance by comparing the historic accruals to actual spend incurred.
We focused on this area due to the complexity and level of judgement The testing performed highlighted no material differences: required in order to derive the estimates: for example the date of shipment to the retailer and period over which the promotion will run agreeing key elements of the estimates to supporting may differ, and details of the retailers EPOS data may be required in documentation such as promotion and rebate agreement and order to determine the proportion of trade spend actually committed EPOS data.
Testing performed found that estimates were at the reporting date.
Accordingly our focus included whether the supported by appropriate supporting evidence: accruals were complete, whether relevant spend was recorded in the testing trade spend transactions around the year end to correct period and how the accruals were valued.
determine whether they had been recognised in the appropriate period.
Testing performed found no material amounts had been recognised in the incorrect period: testing of post year end claims from customer and post year end credit notes raised and agreeing that where claims credit notes related to pre year end promotions they had been adequately accrued.
Testing performed did not identify any material un-provided for amounts: and tested aged customer receivable balances to identify any amounts that remained unpaid as trade spend deductions had been taken.
Where identified the amounts were tested to check that corresponding accruals existed.
Testing performed did not identify any material un-provided for amounts.
Determination of direct tax provisions Refer to page 31 of the statement of corporate governance, page 53 We obtained a detailed understanding of the Groups tax of the statement of accounting policies and note 7 of the consolidated strategy and assessed key tax risks related to business and financial statements.
The Group operates in a number of overseas territories, including We obtained explanations from management and obtained some with rapidly developing or highly ambiguous tax legislation, corroborative evidence, including communication with local tax and regularly undertakes transactions with potentially complex authorities where available and copies of tax advice obtained by or subjective tax implications.
This includes, but is not limited to, management from its external tax advisors, regarding the tax acquisitions, disposals, reorganisations and transfer pricing treatment applied to material transactions and the corresponding arrangements.
Where the amount of tax payable or receivable is provisions recorded.
uncertain the Group establishes provisions based on managements We challenged the key underlying assumptions, particularly in estimates of the probable amount payable, or receivable.
territories where structuring transactions have occurred in the We focused on the judgements made by management in assessing year: having due regard to correspondence between PZ Cussons the quantification and likelihood of these potential exposures and and local tax authorities.
We considered the direct tax provisions therefore the level of provisions required against them.
In particular in place to be appropriate on the basis of managements best we focused on the impact of disposals and restructuring, which could estimate of the information available, and the territories in which materially impact the amounts recorded in the financial statements.
40 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of PZ Cussons Plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Selection of assumptions in relation to defined benefit pension scheme obligations Refer to page 31 of the statement of corporate governance, page 56 For the UK and Indonesian defined benefit pension plans, we of the statement of accounting policies and note 23 of the consolidated challenged the reasonableness of key actuarial assumptions financial statements.
as follows: The Group operates material defined benefit pension plans in the we compared the discount and inflation rates to our internally UK and certain overseas territories, principally Indonesia.
An overall developed benchmarks based on market conditions and surplus of 16.2m is recognised in the Groups financial statements.
expectations at the balance sheet date: and The Group employs independent actuarial specialists in calculating we assessed other assumptions, including pension increases, the valuation of scheme liabilities.
salary increases and mortality, based on market conditions and We focussed on this area because the magnitude of the gross pension comparison across the wider pensions industry.
plan liabilities is significant in the context of both the overall balance We also tested whether the methods used by management to sheet and the results of the Group.
determine key assumptions had been consistently applied Measurement of the pension plan liabilities requires a significant level year-on-year and evaluated the rationale for any changes in of judgement and technical expertise in choosing appropriate approach.
We tested the reconciliation of the opening to closing assumptions.
Changes in key assumptions can have a material impact liability for accuracy, taking into account the movements in key on the gross liability recorded.
assumptions over the year and any changes made to benefits provided within the plans.
The results of our audit work have indicated that the financial and demographic assumptions used by management are within the appropriate ranges.
Accounting for the acquisitions of five:am and Nutricima Refer to page 31 of the statement of corporate governance, page 50 We evaluated the presentation and disclosure in the Groups of the statement of accounting policies and note 29 of the consolidated financial statements, including consideration of fair presentation financial statements.
and with respect to the requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
During the year the Group acquired five:am, a business based in Australia, as well as completing a stepped acquisition of Nutricima, We challenged the reasonableness of key assumptions used a business operating in Nigeria and previously held as a joint venture in managements calculation of the fair values attributed to with a third party.
intangible assets acquired, including the forecast future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates, based on past The acquisition accounting relating to five:am included the performance of each brands products and managements future recognition of a material intangible asset relating to the brand plans.
We tested royalty rates used to determine the value of itself.
This involves significant judgement by the Directors and the brands against market comparable rates and found the rates used application of assumptions, including royalty rates, changes in which to be appropriate.
could materially alter the allocation of acquired value between intangible assets and goodwill.
We tested managements fair value assessment of its existing interest in the Nutricima joint venture prior to acquisition.
We The acquisition accounting relating to Nutricima is inherently more inspected the sale and purchase agreement to understand the complex as this constituted a stepped acquisition and therefore structure and terms of agreement and considered the fair value required the Groups existing interest in the business, as well as assessment to be in line with the structure of the acquisition and the assets and liabilities acquired, to be re-measured at fair value.
the terms of the sale and purchase agreement.
Determination of an appropriate fair value involves significant judgement, particularly relating to the valuation of intangible assets, We tested managements fair value calculation in respect of primarily the value of the Nutricima brands.
Management also property, plant and equipment and their assessment of recognised fair value provisions of 7.5m and 5.2m respectively replacement cost as a proxy for the market fair value.
We tested in respect of property, plant and equipment and a Nigerian key assumptions applied and considered them to be appropriate.
We considered whether there was sufficient evidence as at the date of acquisition to make provision against the Nigerian Government receivable, as discussed under the exceptional items area of focus.
We considered the economic conditions in Nigeria at the time and actions being taken by other Nigerian entities and concluded that there was sufficient evidence to support the provision being made as at the date of acquisition.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 41 How we tailored the audit scope Seven of the 11 reporting units are audited by three We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we component auditor teams, with the remaining 4 audited by performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the the Group engagement team.
The Group engagement team financial statements as a whole, taking into account the visited one of the three local component teams, being the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes largest component, Nigeria, which accounts for four of the and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
11 reporting units, to meet with local management, attend audit clearance meetings and discuss the audit approach and The Group has operations in a range of different geographies findings with the local audit teams.
For those countries not and is structured across three main business lines being Africa visited we either attended the clearance meetings via a Nigeria, Kenya and Ghana, Europe UK, Poland, Greece and conference call or had regular communication with the local USA and Asia Indonesia, Australia, Thailand and Dubai which teams before and during their audit.
Our attendance at the comprise the Groups operating segments as set out in note 2 clearance meetings and review and discussion of reporting to the financial statements.
received from local component teams, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us the Each Country within the aforementioned geographical regions evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial consists of a number of management reporting entities which statements as a whole.
are consolidated by Group management.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 36 reporting units Materiality representing the Groups operating businesses within these The scope of our audit was influenced by our application geographic-based divisions and the centralised functions.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, The reporting units vary in size and we identified 11 reporting helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, units from across the three geographic operating divisions timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the which required an audit of their complete financial information effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial due to their individual size or risk characteristics.
reporting units subject to audit accounted for 79 per cent of the continuing Groups profit before tax and exceptional Based on our professional judgement, we determined items and 76 per cent of the Groups revenue.
materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 5.4m 2014: 5.75m.
How we determined it 5 per cent of profit before tax and exceptional items.
Rationale for benchmark applied Profit before tax and exceptional items was selected as this provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and, we believe, is the metric most commonly used by Shareholders as a body in assessing Group performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report The going concern basis presumes that the Group has to them misstatements identified during our audit above adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the 0.25m 2014: 0.25m as well as misstatements below that Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we qualitative reasons.
have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the However, because not all future events or conditions can be Directors statement, set out on page 33, in relation to going predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the concern.
We have nothing to report having performed Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
42 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of PZ Cussons Plc Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 35, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report arising UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken from this responsibility.
as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 30 to 32, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the We have no exceptions to report arising Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters from this responsibility.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Responsibilities for the financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to statements and the audit you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information Our responsibilities and those of the Directors and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being Directors remuneration satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no financial statements in accordance with applicable law and exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and part of the Report of Corporate Governance relating to the only for the companys members as a body in accordance with companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or performed our review.
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 43 What an audit of financial statements involves Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts We have reported separately on the company financial and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give statements of PZ Cussons Plc for the year ended 31May 2015 reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or that is described as having been audited.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor and adequately disclosed: for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates Leeds made by the Directors: and 21 July 2015 the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
