90 Independent auditors report to the members of QinetiQ Group plc only Recognition of revenues and profits on long-term contracts Opinions and conclusions arising from 685.1 million our audit Refer to page 67 Report of the Audit Committee, page 97 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified accounting policy note and page 103 financial disclosures.
We have audited the financial statements of QinetiQ Group plc for the The risk: A significant proportion of the Groups revenues and profits year ended 31 March 2015 which comprise the Consolidated Income are derived from long-term contracts.
These contracts can include Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the complex technological and commercial risks and often specify Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement performance milestones to be achieved throughout the contract of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the period.
This results in estimates and assumptions having to be made parent company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
In our opinion: to forecast the margin on each contract after making appropriate the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of allowances for these technical and commercial risks related to the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March performance milestones yet to be achieved.
The risk of misstatement 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: is that the accounting for the Groups significant contracts does not the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accurately reflect the status and the associated cost to complete of accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as the relevant contract.
adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Our response: Our audit procedures included, amongst others, the parent company financial statements have been properly testing the design and operating effectiveness of controls in place to prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and manage the commercial, technical and financial aspects of the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Groups long-term contracts.
For a sample of significant contracts, the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the determined on the basis of technical and commercial complexity and Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
profitability of the contract, we also obtained an understanding of the status of the contract through discussions with contract project 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement teams and Directors at a Group and divisional level, attendance at In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, project teams contract review meetings, and examining externally the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on available evidence, such as customer correspondence.
We examined our audit were as follows: the assumptions behind estimated costs to complete, challenging the Carrying value of US Global Products goodwill 67.2 million reasonableness of these in light of supporting evidence including past experience of the contracts and the extent of technical or commercial Refer to page 67 Report of the Audit Committee, page 99 risk identified.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures see accounting policy note and page 112 financial disclosures.
notes 2 and 32 in respect of the analysis of revenue and material The risk: The carrying value of goodwill associated with the US Global contingent liabilities properly reflected the evidence obtained.
Products business was written down to its recoverable amount in the Provisions and contingent liabilities 25.4 million year ended 31 March 2014 based on its discounted projected cash flows.
As a result, any deterioration in these projections or an increase Refer to page 67 Report of the Audit Committee, page 100 in the discount rate applied will result in a further write down being accounting policy note and pages 117 and 135 financial disclosures.
The carrying value of the US Global Products goodwill has The risk: The Group operates in regulated environments and a failure been re-assessed in 2015 also based on the discounted projected cash to comply with particular regulations could result in fines and or flows of this business, which are inherently uncertain due to its lumpy penalties.
There is judgment required in determining the significance revenue profile.
In addition, there has been a reduction in demand of any instances of potential non-compliance and, where appropriate, for certain of this business conflict related products and, whilst the the extent of any potential liability.
The Group holds provisions in projections anticipate that this will be offset partially by new revenue respect of warranty claims and indemnities and environmental issues.
streams, the latter may not be realised in full or in the timeframe The financial statements also disclose contingent liabilities in respect envisaged.
This continues therefore to be an area of audit focus.
of legal claims and environmental issues which have not been Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, testing provided for on the basis that they are not considered to qualify for the principles and mathematical integrity of the Groups discounted recognition as provisions.
This is one of our key areas of audit focus.
cash flow model, comparing the Groups assumptions to externally Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, a critical derived data such as projected economic growth and discount assessment of the extent to which the Directors estimates take into rates, involving our own specialists as we considered appropriate account a balanced assessment of the latest available information and challenging the cash flow projections.
We tested the sensitivity and the accuracy and reliability of the sources of that information.
of the impairment calculation to changes in the judgments and We corroborated the appropriateness of the assumptions by reference assumptions used by the Directors.
We also assessed whether the to third party confirmations and legal advice, where available, and Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the considered whether our understanding of the business gained impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly throughout the audit process corroborated the provisions recorded.
reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 91 Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of challenging the appropriateness of the Directors judgment, by provisions and contingent liabilities.
critically assessing the available evidence as to the operation of the Tax liabilities current tax payable 15.3 million, deferred tax proxy agreement in the context of the relevant accounting standard.
asset 12.9 million We reviewed the relevant documentation including the Proxy agreement to assess the respective rights of the QinetiQ and the Refer to page 67 Report of the Audit Committee, page 98 Proxy Boards practical ability to direct the relevant activities of FMIs accounting policy note and pages 109 and 115 financial disclosures.
We also assessed whether the The risk: The Group is subject to income taxes in UK, USA and a Groups disclosures are appropriate and in accordance with relevant number of other overseas jurisdictions.
The level of current tax and accounting standards.
deferred tax recognised requires judgments as to the likely outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities, including those related 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope to specific tax allowances such as the UK Research and Development of our audit tax credit.
There is a risk that the judgments on which the provisions The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was are based do not take into account or do not properly reflect the set at 5.3 million, determined with reference to a benchmark latest available, reliable information or an appropriate application of of Group profit before taxation, normalised to exclude this years relevant tax legislation, and are either under or overstated as a result.
specific adjusting items as disclosed in note 4, of 107.8 million, In addition, a deferred tax asset of 25 million in respect of brought of which it represents 4.9%.
forward un-utilised losses has been recognised in 2015.
The timing We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected of recognition of brought forward tax losses requires judgment in misstatements exceeding 0.3 million, in addition to other identified determining whether there will be sufficient future taxable profits misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
against which they will be recoverable and there is a risk that the anticipated taxable profit will not be realised.
For Group reporting purposes, we have performed an audit of QinetiQ Limited, the main UK trading company, and audits of Our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, account balances in respect of the US Global Products business challenging the appropriateness of the Directors assumptions and including covering revenue, current assets and current liabilities.
estimates in relation to tax assets and liabilities, by critically assessing The components within the scope of our work accounted for the the range of possible amounts that may be assessed under tax laws, following percentages of the Groups results: 87% of total Group likely settlements based on the latest correspondence with the revenue: 93% of the total profits and losses that made up the Groups relevant tax authorities and the complexity of the relevant tax underlying profit before taxation: and 87% of total Group assets, of legislation.
We involved our tax specialist in analysing and which the coverage attributable to QinetiQ Limited was 81%, 92% challenging the assumptions used to determine tax provisions and 70% respectively.
For the remaining components, we performed and the recoverability of tax assets based on our knowledge and analysis at an aggregate Group level to re-examine our assessment that experience of the application of the legislation by the relevant there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
We also assessed whether the Groups tax disclosures see note 18 are appropriate and in accordance with The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the relevant accounting standards.
significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit Consolidation of US subsidiaries team approved the component materialities, which ranged from Refer to page 67 Report of the Audit Committee and page 97 0.7 million to 4.3 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk accounting policy note.
profile of the Group across the components.
The work on the US Global Products business was performed by component auditors The risk: As detailed on page 65 concerning Management and and the rest by the Group audit team.
control of US subsidiaries, the Groups holding of its US Global Products business FMI assets is regulated by a Proxy agreement, whose The Group audit team visited the US Global Products business, purpose is to insulate FMI from undue foreign ownership control or including to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone conference influence, the effects of which have to be considered when assessing meetings were also held with the component auditor at this location.
whether it should be consolidated in accordance with the requirements At this visit and in these meetings, the findings reported to the Group of the relevant accounting standard.
Judgment is required in assessing audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work whether the Proxy agreement restricts the Groups ability to control required by the Group audit team was then performed by the FMIs operating and financial policies to an extent that it would be component auditor.
inappropriate to consolidate it and, if so, what the alternative accounting treatment should be.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 92 Independent auditors report to the members of QinetiQ Group plc only continued 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 2006 is unmodified the Directors statement, set out on page 88, in relation to going In our opinion: concern: and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 48 to 71 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten Act 2006: and provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified the information given in the Strategic report and Directors for our review.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Scope of report and responsibilities 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement we are required to report by exception set out on pages 88 to 89, the Directors are responsible for the Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit other information in the Annual Report that contains a material of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, at www.
This report is made solely a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
to the Companys members as a body and subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published In particular, we are required to report to you if: on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which we have identified material inconsistencies between the are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, statement that they consider that the Annual Report and the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model Anthony Sykes Senior Statutory Auditor and strategy: or for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address Chartered Accountants matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee 15 Canada Square Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report London, E14 5GL to you if, in our opinion: 21 May 2015 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
