Financial statements Independent auditors report Audit report on the consolidated financial statements Scope of the audit of the financial statements To the Shareholders of The Rank Group Plc: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give In our opinion: reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free the financial statements give a true and fair view of from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 June 2015 and of the Groups pro t for policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied the year then ended: and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant the Group financial statements have been properly accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read European Union: all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual the parent company financial statements have been report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted the audited financial statements and to identify any by the European Union and as applied in accordance information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us the financial statements have been prepared in accordance in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of consider the implications for our report.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement What we have audited We identi ed the following risks that have the greatest impact We have audited the financial statements of The Rank Group on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit Plc for the year ended 30 June 2015 which comprise the Group and directing the efforts of the engagement team: income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive Revenue recognition inaccuracy of the measurement income, the Group and Company balance sheets, the Group and completeness of revenue reported from casino and and Company statements of changes in equity, the Group and bingo venues: Company statements of cash ow, and the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in Revenue recognition inaccuracy of the measurement, completeness and occurrence of revenue reported from their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union casino and bingo digital channels: and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as Identi cation and assessment of the valuation of intangible applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies and tangible assets, goodwill and investments: Act 2006.
Incorrect valuation and incomplete provisions made in relation to property leases: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Inaccurate valuation and incomplete provisions made Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so in relation to direct and indirect tax risk exposures that we might state to the Companys members those matters and claims reclaims in relation to continuing and we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for discontinued businesses.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 82, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
84 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Our response to the risks of material misstatement identi ed above included the following procedures: Risk Our response to these risks Observations Revenue recognition inaccuracy of the We updated our understanding of the revenue processes Having completed these measurement and completeness of revenue and tested key management controls for recognition and procedures nothing has come reported from casino and bingo venues measurement of revenue, both at a site level and head to our attention to indicate We consider there is a potential for fraud at of ce level: that revenue recognition is a club level and opportunity presented for inappropriate.
Our testing We traced a sample of revenue transactions from cash collusion within venues.
Revenue could be of controls did not identify banked to revenue booked to the general ledger: inaccurately stated as a result.
material weaknesses in the We veri ed the recognition and measurement of revenue design and operation of controls.
by re-performing cash counts throughout the year at a sample of casino and bingo venues: We found that revenue has a strong correlation to cash We assessed the opportunity or incentive for which was in line with our management override of controls and collusion and expectations of a business tested certain manual journal entries impacting of this nature.
Our testing of revenue selected using professional judgement: manual journals to revenue We compared managements assumptions and did not indicate evidence of classi cation of accounting entries in relation to the management override.
Groups loyalty scheme against accounting guidance and observable historical data: and We performed substantive analytical review procedures, which included comparing actual results against forecasted win rates and substantiating deviations from expectations.
Revenue recognition inaccuracy of the We updated our understanding of the revenue processes Having completed these measurement, completeness and occurrence of and controls and tested key management manual and IT procedures nothing has come revenue reported from casino and bingo digital controls for recognition and measurement of revenue: to our attention to indicate channels There is a high volume of revenue that revenue recognition is We veri ed the recognition and measurement of revenue transactions from internet gaming.
Our testing by tracing a sample of transactions throughout the year continuously innovating and developing new of controls did not identify to source data to verify the accuracy of reported revenue: products and there are a number of balances material weaknesses in the We assessed the opportunity or incentive for driven by revenue, such as indirect taxes and design and operation management override of controls and collusion and liabilities that arise from af liate and royalty of controls.
tested certain manual journal entries impacting revenue agreements.
These factors can increase the selected using professional judgement: From testing performed complexities around revenue recognition we found that revenue was We compared managements assumptions and and completeness of related balances.
accurate and measured in line classi cation of accounting entries in relation to the with that reported from source Groups loyalty scheme against accounting guidance data.
Our testing of manual and observable historical data: and journals to revenue did not We performed analytical review procedures, which indicate evidence of included comparing actual results against forecasted win management override.
rates and substantiating deviations from expectations.
Identi cation and assessment of the valuation We updated our understanding of managements For nite life assets, we believe of intangible and tangible assets, goodwill and annual impairment testing process: management have undertaken investments The Group tests annually an appropriate exercise to We ensured that the methodology of the impairment whether assets that have an inde nite useful identify, at a CGU level, whether exercise continues to comply with the requirements life, including goodwill and gaming licences, indicators of impairment or of IFRS as adopted by the European Union, including have suffered any impairment.
The Group also impairment reversal are present.
evaluating managements assessment of indicators of reviews assets that are subject to amortisation Where indicators were present, impairment against indicators of impairment speci ed or depreciation for events or changes in management have performed within IAS 36 as well as their assessment of what the circumstances that indicate the carrying additional procedures to Group considers a cash generating unit CGU to be amount of the asset may not be recoverable.
quantify the recoverable compared to other existing industry practice: amount of the asset.
The application of the policy requires the use We assessed the forecasts underlying the impairment of accounting estimates and judgements in review and agreed to budgets approved by the Board, For inde nite life assets, we determining the recoverable amount of reviewing these against actual performance and historic believe that the assessment of cash-generating units to which the intangible accuracy of forecasting.
We also performed sensitivity recoverable amount including, assets and property, plant and equipment are analysis on key assumptions: where relevant, the cash ow associated.
This is a key focus of our audit projections estimated by We agreed other key assumptions such as discount procedures due to the level of management management are reasonable and rates to supporting evidence and corroborated these judgement required in the assumptions the assumptions are supportable.
to industry averages trends with the assistance of EY impacting the impairment assessment and the internal experts: and Based on procedures performed sensitivity of the model.
The main assumptions We compared the individual CGU projections to historic we believe the valuation of impacting the assessment and sensitivity of the performance and made inquiries of the appropriate intangible and tangible assets, model are future cash ows, growth rates finance and commercial personnel where this deviated goodwill and investments applied to cash ows and discount rates.
These from historic performance levels, observable trends or together with the adjustment for assumptions are subjective and subject to our expectations.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 85 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued Risk Our response to these risks Observations Incorrect valuation and incomplete provisions We updated our understanding of managements We believe adjustments made made in relation to property leases The processes and controls for identifying and calculating to and balances of property Group provides for onerous lease provisions property lease provisions: lease provisions are appropriate.
for both unoccupied properties and properties The underlying assumptions We ensured that the methodology of the onerous lease which are trading at a loss.
We consider, as applied by management are provision calculation continues to comply with the with impairment, due to the high level of supportable and management requirements of IFRS as adopted by the European Union: management judgement required in the has taken into account sub-let We checked underlying calculations and agreed key multiple assumptions impacting the income where appropriate.
inputs to supporting evidence including lease agreements assessment and the sensitivity of the model, and, for trading properties, corroborated managements that there is a higher likelihood that a material assumptions to underlying audit work performed: and misstatement could arise.
There is a risk that We corroborated managements assumptions to third these provisions may no longer be required, party evidence where possible and through discussions misstated or that provisions that should have with the finance and property teams responsible for the been recorded have not been.
management of the Groups property leases.
Inaccurate valuation and incomplete provisions We updated our understanding of managements We believe that the adjustments made in relation to direct and indirect tax risk processes and controls for identifying and calculating made to and balance of tax exposures and claims reclaims in relation to tax related provisions: provisions are appropriate.
continuing and discontinued businesses Tax We believe that the disclosures We understood the latest position in all material open risk provisions exist in relation to discontinued included within the financial direct and indirect tax matters including any conclusions business.
Management also provide for certain statements in respect of reached during the year, with the assistance of EY exposures in relation to continuing business.
contingent assets and internal experts, ensuring that management has provided Due to the judgemental nature of estimating the liabilities are appropriate.
for uncertain tax provisions where appropriate: correct amount to provide for the above issues We read all material correspondence with HMRC and and the dif culty in assessing the completeness other tax authorities in the period for entities in scope of the provisions we have identi ed the failure for tax to form our view on the appropriate tax treatment to provide appropriately for tax risk exposures of judgemental items: in relation to continuing and discontinued We tested the calculations of current and deferred businesses as a signi cant risk.
tax assets and liabilities to support the valuation, Indirect tax is a complex area in the gaming presentation and appropriateness of all direct tax industry and the Group has a number of balances at year end: and matters in relation to ongoing claims and We concluded on the appropriateness of the indirect assessments with HMRC.
In addition the tax balances, presentation and disclosures.
Group is required to disclose certain contingent assets and contingent liabilities in respect of these ongoing issues in the annual accounts.
Due to the highly judgemental nature of many of the ongoing claims and disclosure requirements, we have identi ed this as a signi cant risk for the audit.
Our application of materiality would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning We determined planning materiality for the Group to be and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of 3.7m PY: 3.2m, which is 5% PY: 5% of adjusted pro t misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
before tax of 74.1m for the year ended 30 June 2015 PY: For the purposes of determining whether the financial 62.5m.
We have calculated materiality with reference to statements are free from material misstatement we fide ne adjusted pro t before tax as we consider this to be one of materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes the principal considerations for members of the Company in it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably assessing the financial performance of the Group.
This is on knowledgeable person, relying on the financial statements, the basis that adjusted pro t before tax excludes exceptional would be changed or in uenced.
We also determine a level items such as impairment charges and reversals to give a full of performance materiality which we use to determine the understanding of the Groups financial performance and aid extent of testing needed to reduce, to an appropriately low comparability of the Groups result between periods.
level, the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the assessment of the Groups overall control environment, financial statements as a whole.
our judgement is that overall performance materiality When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged or balance for the Group should be 50% PY: 50% of planning 86 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 materiality, namely 1.85m PY: 1.6m.
Our objective in Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 adopting this approach is to ensure that total detected and In our opinion: undetected audit differences do not exceed our planning the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be materiality of 3.7m PY: 3.2m for the financial statements audited has been properly prepared in accordance with as a whole.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, the Companies Act 2006: and timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying the information given in the Strategic Report and the and assessing the risk of material misstatement and Directors Report for the financial year for which the determining the nature, timing and extent of further financial statements are prepared is consistent with audit procedures.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report Matters on which we are required to report by exception to the committee all audit differences in excess of 0.2m We have nothing to report in respect of the following: PY: 0.1m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above materially inconsistent with the information in the audited and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
financial statements: or An overview of the scope of our audit apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially We used a risk-based approach for determining our audit inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired strategy, ensuring that our audit teams performed consistent in the course of performing our audit: or procedures and focused on addressing the risks that are is otherwise misleading.
This approach focused our audit In particular, we are required to consider whether we have effort towards higher risk areas, such as signi cant identi ed any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired management judgements, and on locations that were during the audit and the directors statement that they considered material based upon size, complexity and risk.
consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those our allocation of that materiality determined our audit scope.
matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
The factors that we considered when assessing the scope of the Group audit and the level of work to be performed at each Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report location included the following: the financial signi cance and to you if, in our opinion: speci c risks of the location, the effectiveness of the control adequate accounting records have not been kept by the environment and monitoring activities, including Group-wide parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have controls and recent internal audit findings.
not been received from branches not visited by us: or Our Group audit scope focused on the UK and Spain.
The UK the parent company financial statements and the part of was subject to a full scope audit, whilst Spain was subject to the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not speci c audit testing and therefore represents a speci c scope in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or location based on our judgement of risk and materiality.
These certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed countries represent the principal business units within the by law are not made: or Groups six reportable segments and accounted for 98% PY: 98% of revenue and 99% PY: 91% of the Groups we have not received all the information and explanations adjusted pro t before tax.
The risks identi ed above that have we require for our audit.
a greater impact on our audit strategy are audited in the UK by Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the audit team that is overseen by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
the directors statement, set out on page 39, in relation The Senior Statutory Auditor oversaw all planning at the to going concern: and full scope location including discussion of the potential for material fraud and error, reviewed key working papers, the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of participated in the planning and execution of the responses to the risks, and attended the audit closing meetings.
The Senior the UK Corporate Governance Code speci ed for our review.
Statutory Auditor was also involved in the risk assessment and determining which accounts were in scope for the speci c Nick Powell, Senior statutory auditor scope location and attended the audit closing meeting by For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, conference call, made speci c enquiries of local management Statutory Auditor and reviewed the summary of results reported by the audit London team in Spain.
19 August 2015 For the remaining locations, we performed an analytical review to con rm there were no signi cant risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 87
