Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF REDROW plc The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed below, Report on the financial statements Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Our opinion accordance with applicable law and regulations.
In our opinion Redrow plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements : the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2015 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and each Financial Year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with the Strategic Report contained on pages 3 to 55 includes a fair review the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the of the development and performance of the business and the position by the European Union: European Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true uncertainties that it faces.
the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these The Directors of Redrow plc as at the date of this statement are: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial financial statements, the Directors are required to: statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Steve Morgan, Chairman select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: John Tutte, Group Chief Executive What we have audited Barbara Richmond, Group Finance Director make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable The financial statements comprise: Debbie Hewitt, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and prudent: Nick Hewson, Non-Executive Director the Group and Company balance sheets as at 30 June 2015: state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union have Liz Peace, Non-Executive Director been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and the Group income statement and the Group and Company statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended: Sir Michael Lyons, Non-Executive Director explained in the financial statements: and the Group and Company statements of cash flows for the year then ended: By order of the Board prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
the accounting policies: and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Graham Cope that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and Company Secretary disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the 7 September 2015 cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by Redrow plc statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for the European Union and, as regards the company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Redrow House safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for St. Davids Park taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Flintshire other irregularities.
CH5 3RX Our audit approach Overview The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Materiality Overall group materiality: 10 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of the Group.
Audit scope The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary Net realisable value of inventories.
for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model Valuation of pension scheme deficit.
Areas of focus The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table on page 90.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
88 89 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CO N T I N U ED TO THE MEMBERS OF REDROW plc How we tailored the audit scope Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, Net realisable value of inventories For sites impacted by the exceptional net realisable value provisions, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
See the Accounting Policies and Financial Risk Management sections we compared forecast sales prices to actual prices achieved post for the directors disclosures of related accounting policies and key year-end and assessed the accuracy of managements historical The Group comprises one principal trading company and a number of smaller subsidiaries and joint ventures, all of which are based in the UK.
See note 13 for the detailed disclosures on forecasts by comparing net realisable values recognised in the prior the inventory provision.
year with actual sales prices achieved in the current year.
We assessed We performed audits of the Company and all of the Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures.
This gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on expected market trends with reference to independent third party the Group financial statements.
All work was performed by the Group engagement team.
Exceptional net realisable value provisions were created in 2008 and house price indices and our independently formed assumption.
We also 2009 against the value of inventories, represented by land and work-inidentified and tested any significant differences between budgeted and Materiality progress.
28 million of these provisions remain at the year end in actual build costs recognised in the year.
We did not identify any The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with relation to pre 2009 sites which have not yet completed.
This constitutes material differences between managements estimations and actual qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the whole inventory provision as at the year end.
The calculation of this results or independent indices.
the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
provision involves a number of estimates, the most significant of which are forecast movements in the sales prices of plots and expected build We tested managements controls over the process for estimating the Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: costs.
These assumptions could have a significant impact on the level of expected remaining build costs, including the budgeting and review provisions recognised.
We also inspected evidence of the Boards review of forecast sales prices used in this provision model.
We did not identify any Overall group materiality 10 million 2014: 6.6 million.
The carrying value of the remaining inventory balance is subject to significant deficiencies of control in this process.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
estimates, in particular over the likelihood of planning consent being We performed sensitivity analysis to identify the impact that changes granted for the proposed developments.
As this can have a significant Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with last year, we have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, in the in key assumptions, notably the overall market house price variance impact on whether the value of the land is impaired, this is also an area absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be more appropriate.
assumption, have on the provision calculation in challenging of focus for us.
management on the overall levels of provisioning.
We also considered We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.5 million the adequacy of the disclosures made in the financial statements 2014: 0.3 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
We considered the assumptions used in the calculation of the provisions and the disclosures made to be appropriate.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 88, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to For significant sites that have not yet been developed, we considered the latest stage of planning applications and assessed the accuracy of report having performed our review.
managements historical estimates by comparing previous estimated As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern impairments to actual outturns achieved.
We did not identify any material differences between managements estimations and actual basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the results achieved.
directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Valuation of pension scheme deficit We obtained and read the actuarial report that was prepared by an See the Accounting Policies and Financial Risk Management sections independent firm of actuaries and used by the directors in estimating However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability for the directors disclosures of related accounting policies and key the value of the Groups liability in respect of the scheme.
We tested to continue as a going concern.
See note 7 for the detailed disclosures on the the completeness and accuracy of the pension scheme membership pension scheme deficit.
data provided to managements actuary on which the pension liability Other required reporting is calculated, comparing the data to the underlying payroll systems.
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme with a net deficit We noted no material exceptions from our testing.
Consistency of other information of 3 million at the year end.
This deficit is derived from assets with a Companies Act 2006 opinions gross value of 103 million less the present value of obligations of 106 We challenged the key assumptions used in the actuarial valuation, In our opinion: million, both of which are significant in the context of the overall balance being the discount rate, future RPI inflation, mortality rates and sheet and the result of the Group.
expected returns on investments by comparing them to internallythe information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is generated typical ranges used for such assumptions, taking into consistent with the financial statements: and The valuation of this net liability is dependent on the application of account the industry in which the Group operates and other specific significant judgements in the actuarial assumptions, in particular characteristics of this pension scheme.
The actuarial assumptions the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 56 to 63 with respect to internal control and risk management discount rates, future Retail Price Index RPI inflation and mortality were within the typical ranges for similar pension schemes.
systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
rates, and on the expected returns on investments.
The pension scheme assets are invested in a mixture of pooled funds, Unfavourable changes in any of the key actuarial assumptions could individual equities, government and corporate bonds and cash.
We lead to a material increase in the calculated net liability.
obtained independent confirmations of the existence and valuation of all of the scheme assets from the external investment managers and The pension scheme assets are invested in a mixture of pooled funds, tested the valuations of a sample of these assets by agreeing them to individual equities, government and corporate bonds and cash.
valuations obtained from independent third party sources.
No material differences were identified from our testing performed.
90 91 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CO N T I N U ED TO THE MEMBERS OF REDROW plc ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 88, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Information in the Annual Report is: financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those a pparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to t he statement given by the directors on page 88, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole arising from this responsibility.
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to What an audit of financial statements involves assess the groups and companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the with our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: t he section of the Annual Report on page 54, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions to report the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to arising from this responsibility.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and the Audit Committee.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis visited by us: or for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Manchester Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
7 September 2015 Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
92 93 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
