88 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RENISHAW PLC Adverse changes in assumptions, We assessed the adequacy of the Opinions and conclusions particularly relating to forecast cash Groups disclosures in respect of the arising from our audit flows and discount rates, could impairment testing of goodwill and reduce the recoverable amount 1.
Our opinion on the financial whether disclosures about the sensitivity below the carrying amount, and of the outcome of the impairment statements is unmodified give rise to an impairment charge.
assessment to changes in key We have audited the financial statements The forecasting of cash flows and assumptions properly reflected the risks of Renishaw plc for the year ended the selection of an appropriate inherent in it.
30thJune 2015 set out on pages 91 to discount rate are therefore key 129.
In our opinion: Carrying value of Work in progress judgemental areas that our audit is 20.1m and Finished goods 29.2m the financial statements give a true concentrated on.
and fair view of the state of the Refer to pages 74 and 75 Audit Our response In this area our audit Groups and of the parent companys committee report, page 98 procedures included evaluating the affairs as at 30th June 2015 and of the accounting policy and page 112 Groups budgeting procedures upon Groups profit for the year then ended: financial disclosures.
which the forecast cash flows are the group financial statements have based by performing an assessment The risk There are significant inventory been properly prepared in accordance of the historical accuracy of budgets holdings throughout the Group: in the with International Financial Reporting for trading entities by comparing key manufacturing centres in the UK, Standards as adopted by the European previously budgeted figures to actual Ireland and India and sales offices Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : results.
We also critically assessed the around the world.
Due to the fast-paced ongoing forecasts for companies in the nature of the industry there is a risk of the parent company financial research and development phase, by product obsolescence.
statements have been properly considering the assumptions adopted prepared in accordance with UK The Group maintains an inventory by the directors when preparing the Accounting Standards: and provision for potential product forecasts for these entities and taking obsolescence to the extent that the financial statements have been into account the experience of the the cost of inventory is not deemed prepared in accordance with the Group at maturing past research and to be recoverable through future requirements of the Companies Act development companies into profitable sales.
This provision is calculated 2006 and, as regards the group trading entities.
at a disaggregated level based on financial statements, Article 4 of the We challenged the Groups the historic and future forecast sales IAS Regulation.
selection of the discount rates used patterns of individual stock items.
Our assessment of risks of These assumptions are judgemental underlying the calculation of each material misstatement and changes could have a material discount rate: using external data impact on the calculation of In arriving at our audit opinion above including competitor analysis to the provision.
on the financial statements the risks determine an appropriate range of material misstatement that had Our response In this area our audit for each type of business and the greatest effect on our audit were procedures included challenging comparing the actual rate used to as follows.
the Groups assumptions in respect that range.
For the period beyond of the provision calculation by Carrying value of Goodwill 19.7m the financial budgets and forecasts, assessing historical accuracy of the we assessed whether the growth Refer to pages 74 and 75 Audit inventory provision.
We also critically rate used was consistent with both committee report, page 98 accounting assessed the adequacy of the historical performance and future policy and pages 106 and 107 Groups provisions against inventory business strategies.
by identifying slow-moving line items, We evaluated the Groups sensitivity considering whether these items The risk The Group has engaged in analysis, by performing our own should be provided for in accordance a number of business combinations in analysis to assess the sensitivity of the with the Groups policy by comparison recent years: a number of acquisitions impairment reviews to changes in the to the most recent sales invoices are still in the research and key assumptions of the discount rate, for those items.
We compared the development phase and have not yet the forecast cash flows and growth current carrying amount of a sample started trading: this makes forecasting rate beyond the financial budgets.
of inventory items to recent sales inherently more judgemental.
invoices to assess whether these Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 89 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 items should be written down to net The components within the scope of our Telephone conference meetings were realisable value.
work accounted for the percentages of held with the component auditors to the Groups results specified in the table assess the audit risk, strategy and audit We also assessed the adequacy of set out below.
During these meetings, the the Groups disclosures in respect of findings reported to the group audit the inventory provision.
The remaining 3% of total group team were discussed in more detail, and revenue, 1% of group profit before any further work required by the group 3.
Our application of materiality tax and 13% of total group assets audit team was then performed by the and an overview of the scope of is represented by 21 reporting component auditor.
our audit components, none of which individually represented more than 4% of any of total The materiality for the financial 4.
Our opinion on other matters group revenue, group profit before tax or statements as a whole was set at prescribed by the Companies Act total group assets.
This has been determined with 2006 is unmodified reference to a benchmark of total For the remaining components, we In our opinion: revenue, which we consider to be performed analysis at an aggregated one of the principal considerations for the part of the Directors remuneration group level to re-examine our members of the company in assessing report to be audited has been assessment that there were no the financial performance of the Group.
properly prepared in accordance with significant risks of material misstatement Materiality represents 1.4% of group the Companies Act 2006: and within these.
revenue and 4.9% of group profit the information given in the Strategic The group audit team instructed before tax.
report and the Directors report for the component auditors as to the significant We report to the Audit committee financial year for which the financial areas to be covered, including the any corrected or uncorrected statements are prepared is consistent relevant risks detailed above and identified misstatements exceeding with the financial statements.
the information to be reported back.
0.2m, in addition to other identified The group audit team approved the misstatements that warranted reporting component materialities, which ranged on qualitative grounds.
from 2.5m to 3.5m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of Of the Groups 41 reporting the Group across the components.
components, we subjected seven to The work on the specified risk-focused audits for group reporting purposes audit procedures and five of the audits and one to specified risk-focused for group reporting purposes was audit procedures.
The latter was performed by component auditors and not individually financial significant the rest by the group audit team.
enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed over revenue and trade receivables.
Number of Profit before Total assets components Revenue % tax % % Audits for group reporting purposes 7 78% 94% 75% Specified risk-focused audit procedures 1 10% 2% 5% Reviews of component financial information 12 9% 3% 7% Coverage 20 97% 99% 87% 90 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RENISHAW PLC CONTINUED Under the Listing Rules we are required 5.
We have nothing to report in to review: respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception the Directors statement, set out on Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are page 69, in relation to going concern: required to report to you if, based on and the knowledge we acquired during the part of the corporate governance our audit, we have identified other statement on page 71 relating to the information in the Annual report that Companys compliance with the 10 contains a material inconsistency with provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate either that knowledge or the financial Governance Code specified for statements, a material misstatement of our review.
fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
We have nothing to report in respect In particular, we are required to report ofthe above responsibilities.
toyou if: we have identified material Scope of report and inconsistencies between the responsibilities knowledge we acquired during our As explained more fully in the audit and the Directors statement Directors responsibilities statement that they consider that the Annual set out on page 87, the directors are report and financial statements responsible for the preparation of the taken as a whole is fair, balanced financial statements and for being and understandable and provides satisfied that they give a true and the information necessary for fair view.
A description of the scope shareholders to assess the Groups of an audit of financial statements is performance, business model and provided on the Financial Reporting strategy: or Councils website at www.
uk the Audit committee report does auditscopeukprivate.
This report is not appropriately address matters made solely to the Companys members communicated by us to the as a body and is subject to important Audit committee.
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on Under the Companies Act 2006 we our website at www.
com uk are required to report to you if, in auditscopeukco2014a, which are our opinion: incorporated into this report as if set out adequate accounting records have in full and should be read to provide an not been kept by the parent company, understanding of the purpose of this or returns adequate for our audit have report, the work we have undertaken not been received from branches not and the basis of our opinions.
visited by us: or Virginia Stevens the parent company financial Senior Statutory Auditor statements and the part of the for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Directors remuneration report to be Statutory Auditor audited are not in agreement with the Chartered Accountants accounting records and returns: or 100 Temple Street Bristol certain disclosures of directors BS1 6AG remuneration specified by law are not made: or 29th July 2015 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
