Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Independent auditors report 155 Independent auditors report to the members of RELX PLC Opinion on our audit of the parent company financial statements statements in accordance with applicable law and International of RELX PLC the Company Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our In our opinion: audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control the parent company financial statements give a true and fair procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: review team and independent partner reviews.
the parent company financial statements have been properly We are required to communicate with the Audit Committee prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of Reduced Disclosure Framework and in accordance with the the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant requirements of the Companies Act 2006. deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We are also required to provide the Audit Committee with a We have audited the financial statements which comprise the statement that we have complied with relevant ethical parent company statement of financial position, the parent requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with company statement of changes in equity, a summary of the parent them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be company accounting policies and the related notes 1-4.
The thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable financial reporting framework that has been applied in their related safeguards.
preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in Disclosure Framework.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Our assessment of risks of material misstatement, application companys members those matters we are required to state to of materiality and overview of the scope of our audit them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Given the nature of the RELX PLC and RELX NV legal structure, extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility our assessment of risks of material misstatement, materiality and to anyone other than the company and the companys members as audit scoping for the Group equally applies to the audit of the a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we parent company financial statements of RELX PLC.
Independence Scope of the audit of the financial statements We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are services referred to in those standards.
appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained on page 75 regarding the appropriateness of In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information the going concern basis of accounting and the directors statement in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is Directors Report on page 75.
We confirm that given the nature of apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially the RELX PLC and RELX NV legal structure, our assessment of the inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of Groups ability to continue as a going concern equally applies to the performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent parent company financial statements of RELX PLC.
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial the Companys or Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 156 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Corporate Governance Statement Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of In our opinion: theCorporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Act 2006: and Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, Report for the financial year for which the financial statements weare required to report to you if, in our opinion, information are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
in the Annual Report is: Matters on which we are required to report by exception materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records financial statements: or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially in our opinion: inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired we have not received all the information and explanations we inthe course of performing our audit: or require for our audit: or otherwise misleading.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent In particular, we are required to consider whether we have company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired received from branches not visited by us: or during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the parent company financial statements are not in agreement the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and with the accounting records and returns.
whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in misleading statements.
our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have Graham Richardson Senior statutory auditor not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 24 February 2016
