Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Independent auditors report 141 Independent auditors report to the members of RELX PLC and shareholders of RELX NV Opinion on our audit of the consolidated financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: ofRELX Group give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of RELX PLC, We have audited the consolidated financial statements of the RELX NV, RELX Group plc and its subsidiaries, associates and Group which comprise the consolidated income statement, the joint ventures together the Group as at 31 December 2015 consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the and of their profit and their cash flows for the year then ended: consolidated statement of cash flows, the consolidated statement and of financial position, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 31, including the accounting have been properly prepared in accordance with International policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the in the preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We are independent of the Group within the meaning of the FRCsEthical Standards for Auditors and relevant Dutch ethical requirements as included in Verordening op fide  accountants VGBA and the Verordening inzake fide onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance opdrachten ViO and have fulfilled our other responsibilities under those ethical requirements.
Key audit matters Our audit procedures relating to these matters were addressed in Key audit matters are those that, in our professional judgement, the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements.
They included the risks of material misstatement a separate opinion on these individual matters.
which had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of The accounting policies and critical judgements made in respect resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement of these matters are included on pages 99 to 100. team.
Our assessment of key audit matters is unchanged from prior year.
We have communicated these key audit matters to the Audit Committees: the Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 91.
The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed.
KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW WE RESPONDED The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and acquired We have tested the operating effectiveness of managements intangible assets internal controls in their review of the carrying value of goodwill The Group had 5,231m of goodwill and 2,278m of acquired and acquired intangible assets, including controls over the intangible assets as at 31 December 2015.
The goodwill balance valuation model and assumptions applied.
arose during business acquisitions as the excess of purchase We challenged management on the level at which the impairment consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired.
The testing is performed, checking consistency with how goodwill is balance results from multiple acquisitions in each segment, allocated to business units on acquisition and how goodwill is withthe allocation set out in note 15.
The quantum of these monitored following acquisition.
balances together with the judgements required to be made when We challenged managements assumptions used in the performing impairment reviews have resulted in us considering impairment model: those key assumptions are outlined in Note 15 this a significant risk.
These judgements include the discount rate to the consolidated financial statements.
Specifically we selected, the long-term growth assumption and the level at which challenged the cash flow projections, discount rate with the impairment reviews are performed.
assistance of valuation specialists, perpetuity growth rates and sensitivities used, by looking at market data and assessing the historical accuracy of managements forecasting.
The carrying value of internally developed intangible assets in We tested the operating effectiveness of relevant internal controls accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets: related to the capitalisation of internally developed intangible The closing net book value of all capitalised development projects assets and, when indicators of impairment were identified, their was 878m.
The costs of building product applications, platforms valuation, including the assessment of useful economic lives.
and infrastructure are capitalised as intangible assets, where We have tested the amounts capitalised in the period to assess theinvestment they represent has demonstrable value and the whether this was performed in accordance with the requirements technical and commercial feasibility is assured.
We also challenged managements assessment as to to exercise judgement in determining which costs meet the IAS 38 whether development projects in-progress were still expected to criteria for capitalisation and when performing an impairment deliver sufficient positive economic benefits upon their review if indicators of impairment are identified.
For completed development projects, we considered ofjudgements involved has caused us to identify these key audit whether the useful economic lives selected remained appropriate risks.
Disclosure in respect of capitalised development costs are and for those assets where indicators of impairment were included in note 16. identified, whether valuations were supported by testing managements impairment reviews.
142 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW WE RESPONDED We have tested revenue in each of the full scope audit locations by Revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition and the accounting for multiple element arrangements testing the operating effectiveness of associated internal controls and performing substantive audit procedures.
The Groups businesses continue to evolve and new business models can give rise to new revenue arrangements.
This can We performed analytical reviews and reviewed management result in circumstances which require careful consideration to accounts to identify any material new revenue streams.
Our determine how revenue should be recognised.
Each of our testing procedures included reviewing customer contracts, component teams pinpoint at least one key audit risk based on checking delivery records and price lists, profiling and other their assessment of the nature and quantum of revenue streams, computer assisted techniques and checking that the recognition the systems involved in recording revenues and those revenues criteria of IFRS were met.
requiring the exercise of significant management judgement.
These key risks include the cut-off of subscription and transactional revenues and the allocation of fair value for multiple element arrangements.
Further details of revenue by segment are included in note 2.
The valuation of amounts recorded for uncertain tax positions Our audit team was supported by tax specialists in testing the The Group operates in a significant number of jurisdictions around relevant uncertain tax positions, including the assumptions and the world, all with differing tax regimes with complex crossestimates used, reviewing correspondence with the authorities border arrangements, and is therefore open to challenge from and testing the operating effectiveness of managements relevant multiple tax authorities.
The quantum of the amounts recorded in internal controls.
respect of uncertain tax positions and the judgemental nature in We considered the appropriateness of managements assumptions determining the best estimates economic outflow have caused us and estimates in relation to uncertain tax positions, challenging to identify valuation as a key audit matter.
Disclosures in respect those assumptions and considering advice received by oftaxation are included in note 10. management from external parties to support their analysis and accounting for the uncertain tax position in accordance with IFRS.
The valuation of defined benefit pension liabilities We engaged our actuarial specialists to assist in the auditing of The Group has operated defined benefit pension schemes for managements assumptions used to value the pension liabilities.
existing and former employees in three main jurisdictions.
For each of the three main jurisdictions we considered the Theliabilities for these schemes involve certain actuarial appropriateness of the assumptions, by reviewing correspondence assumptions, in particular discount rate and inflation.
The received from third parties and comparison to market and entity sensitivity of the balance to changes in key assumptions have specific data, both individually and when combined with the other caused us to identify this as a key audit matter.
We focused on the discount rate and inflation pensionliabilities total 4,044m as set out in Note 6. assumptions as in our view they have the most impact on the scheme valuation and require significant level of management judgement.
We also tested managements controls over the valuation of pension liabilities and in particular the determining of these key assumptions.
Our application of materiality An overview of the scope of our group audit A misstatement arising from fraud or error will be considered Our audit of the consolidated financial statements was scoped by material if, individually or in the aggregate, it could reasonably obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, beexpected to influence the economic decisions of users taken including the entity-wide controls, and assessing the risks of onthe basis of these financial statements.
The materiality material misstatement at the Group level.
The audit was jointly affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures planned by the UK and Dutch engagement teams, during a two day and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements planning and risk analysis meeting involving all key component on our opinion.
Based on that risk assessment, we designed and performed audit procedures responsive to those risks, and We have considered a number of benchmarks in order to guide obtained audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to ourdetermination of our materiality.
Based on our professional provide a basis for our opinion.
In making those risk assessments, judgement, we determined materiality for the Group to be 85m we considered internal control relevant to the Groups preparation 2014: 85m, which is around 6.5% of pre-tax profit 2014: around and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design 7% and below 5% of equity 2014: below 5%.
Wehave also taken audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances.
into account misstatements and or possible misstatements that Aspart of an audit in accordance with the applicable standards, in our opinion are material for the users of thefinancial weexercised professional judgement and maintain professional statements for qualitative reasons.
scepticism throughout the planning and performance of the audit.
Our audit work at the operating locations was executed at levels Based on that assessment, our audit scope for the Group focused ofmateriality lower than the materiality for the Group and did primarily on the audits of seventeen operating locations, which notexceed 35m 2014: 30m or $55m 2014: $50m.
represent the principal business units within the Groups four We agreed with the Audit Committees that we would report reportable segments.
These locations, together with audit work tothem all audit misstatements in excess of 1.7m, as well performed at the Groups head office functions, account for 73% assmaller misstatements that, in our view, must be reported ofthe Groups assets, 91% of the Groups liabilities, 74% of the onqualitative grounds.
Groups revenue, 79% of the Groups adjusted operating profit and Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Independent auditors report 143 88% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected areasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue toprovide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
period of their assessment, including any related disclosures TheGroup audit team continued to follow a programme of planned drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or visits that has been designed so that the Audit Partners of RELX assumptions.
PLC and RELX NV visit the key locations.
The Audit Partners also We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern attend audit close meetings with management of each of the basisof accounting and we did not identify any such material groups four operating segments, alongside the local auditors uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or ofthe business units.
conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee We also tested the consolidation process and carried out as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the no risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial date of our auditors report.
However, future events or conditions information of the remaining components not subject to audit.
may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
We obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities and business activities to Other matters express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
The separate audit reports on the parent company financial Weare responsible for the direction, supervision and performance statements of RELX PLC and RELX NV, which have been audited of the group audit.
We remain responsible for our audit opinion.
under locally adopted auditing standards and which include the other opinions required by local laws and regulations, appear on Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal pages 155 and 165. risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group The consolidated financial statements have been prepared Responsibilities of directors usingthe going concern basis of accounting.
In preparing the As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities consolidated financial statements, management is responsible statement, the Boards are responsible for the preparation and for assessing the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
fairpresentation of the consolidated financial statements in Based on the relevant financial reporting frameworks, accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as management should prepare the Groups financial statements adopted by the European Union and for being satisfied that they using the going concern basis of accounting unless management give a true and fair view and for such internal control as they either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated no realistic alternative but to do so.
Management should disclose financial statements that are free from material misstatement, events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the whether due to fraud or error.
Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Audit Committees assist the respective Boards in overseeing As required by the UK Listing Rules we have reviewed the the Groups financial reporting process.
directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting and the directors statement on the Our Responsibility for the audit of the financial statements longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Corporate Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Governance Report on page 75. consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland as issued We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: bythe United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board and Dutch Law, the directors' confirmation on page 75 that they have carried including the Dutch Standards on Auditing.
We believe that the out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to including those that would threaten its business model, future provide a basis for our opinion.
performance, solvency or liquidity: We are required to communicate with the Audit Committees the disclosures on pages 60-62 that describe those risks and regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
the directors statement on page 75 to the financial statements We are also required to provide the Audit Committees with a about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the statement that we have complied with relevant ethical goingconcern basis of accounting in preparing them and their requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable the date of approval of the financial statements: related safeguards.
the director's explanation on page 75 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period theyhave done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have 144 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Scope of the audit of the consolidated financial statements concluding on the appropriateness of managements use of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and thegoing concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit disclosures in the consolidated financial statements sufficient evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists togive reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Reasonable assurance does not provide an conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to absolute level of assurance which means we may not have draw attention in our auditors report to the related disclosures detected all errors and fraud.
An audit includes an assessment of: in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Group to cease to continue as a going concern: consolidated financial statements.
In addition, we read all the evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to the financial statements, including the disclosures: and identify material inconsistencies with the audited consolidated financial statements and to identify any information that is evaluating whether the consolidated financial statements apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course that achieves fair presentation.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Engagement implications for our report.
We were engaged by the Audit Committees as auditor of RELX PLC and as auditor of RELX NV for the audit of the financial year ended We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained 31 December 2015 and have operated as statutory auditor since 1994. professional scepticism throughout the audit, in accordance withISAs UK and Ireland, Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical standards and relevant independence requirements.
Our audit included: Graham Richardson M. J. van der Vegte identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of Senior statutory auditor RA the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient For and on behalf of and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of Deloitte LLP Deloitte Accountants B. V. not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is Chartered Accountants Amsterdam higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve and Statutory Auditor The Netherlands collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, London, United Kingdom or the override of internal control: 24 February 2016 24 February 2016 obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate inthe circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control:
