Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Independent auditors report 165 Independent auditors report on financial statements to the shareholders of RELX NV Opinion on our audit of the parent company financial statements Key audit matters of RELX NV the Company Key audit matters are those that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the parent company We have audited the accompanying 2015 parent company financial financial statements.
We have communicated these key audit statements of RELX NV, based in Amsterdam.
matters to the Audit Committee: the Audit Committees The parent company financial statements comprise: consideration of these risks is set out on page 91.
The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters 1. the parent company statement of comprehensive income discussed.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were for the year 2015: addressed in the context of our audit of the parent company 2. the parent company statement of financial position as at financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion 31December 2015: thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these individual matters.
Given the nature of the RELX PLC and RELX 3. the parent company statement of changes in equity: and NVlegal structure, the key audit matters, our assessed risks of 4. notes comprising a summary of the parent company material misstatement, application of materiality, overview of accounting policies and other explanatory information and thescope of our group audit, and considerations regarding going the related notes 1 to 8. concern for the Group equally applies to the audit of the parent company financial statements of RELX NV.
See pages 142-143 In our opinion: forfurther details.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of RELX NV as at 31 December Responsibilities of Executive Directors and the Non-Executive 2015 and of its result for the year 2015 in accordance with Directors for the Financial Statements Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Executive directors are responsible for the preparation and fair Framework and in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the presentation of the financial statements and for the preparation Dutch Civil Code.
ofthe report of the board in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Furthermore, executive directors are Basis for Our Opinion responsible for such internal control as executive directors We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial the Dutch Standards on Auditing.
Our responsibilities under those statements that are free from material misstatement, whether standards are further described in the Our responsibilities for due to fraud or error.
theaudit of the financial statements section of our report.
As part of the presentation of the financial statements, executive We are independent of the Company in accordance with the directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to Verordening inzake fide onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij continue as a going concern.
Based on the financial reporting assurance-opdrachten ViO and other relevant independence frameworks mentioned, executive directors should prepare the regulations in the Netherlands.
Furthermore we have complied with financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting the Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants VGBA.
unless executive directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Executive directors should disclose events and circumstances appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
that may cast significant doubt on the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The non executive directors are responsible for overseeing the Companys financial reporting process.
Our responsibility for the audit of the financial statements Our objective is to plan and perform the audit assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion.
Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all errors and fraud.
We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the audit, in accordance withDutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and independence requirements.
166 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Our audit included: We provide the non executive directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement independence and communicated with them all relationships and ofthe financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our designing and performing audit procedures responsive to independence, including where applicable, related safeguards.
those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of not From the matters communicated with the non executive directors we detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is determine those matters that were of most significance in theaudit higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in ourauditors or the override of internal control.
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the not communicating the matter is in the publicinterest.
audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate inthe circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control.
evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used Report of the Board and the Other Information andthe reasonableness of accounting estimates and related Pursuant to legal requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch disclosures made by management.
Civil Code concerning our obligation to report about the report of the board and other data, we declare that: concluding on the appropriateness of managements use of thegoing concern basis of accounting and based on the audit we have no deficiencies to report as a result of our examination evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists whether the report of the board, to the extent we can assess, related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the on the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
If we Dutch Civil Code, and whether the information as required of conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been annexed.
draw attention in our auditors report to the related disclosures further we report that the report of the board report, to the in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are extent we can assess, is consistent with the financial inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based statements.
on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Engagement Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
We were engaged by the Audit Committee as auditor of RELX NV evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of on 22 July 2015, for the audit of the financial year ended 31 the financial statements, including the disclosures: and December 2015 and have operated as statutory auditor since 1994. evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Deloitte Accountants BV We communicate with the non executive directors regarding, M. J. van der Vegte RA among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit Amsterdam and significant audit findings, including any significant findings The Netherlands ininternal control that we identify during our audit.
