STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 77 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF REXAM PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion, Rexam PLCs consolidated financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the annual report, comprise: the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: the statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Context As announced on 19 February 2015, the boards of Rexam PLC and Ball Corporation have reached agreement on the terms of a recommended offer for Rexam PLC.
Notwithstanding this offer, we determined there was no additional risk or impact to our planned audit approach for Rexam as a standalone Group in the current year.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 18 million which represents 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, and the fair value changes on derivatives.
Materiality We conducted audit work over the complete financial information of all four sectors, Beverage Cans Europe, Beverage Cans North America, Beverage Cans South America, Beverage Cans Africa Middle East & Asia and the Group head office.
Audit scope In addition we carried out specific audit procedures at the Groups service center in Charlotte.
We focused on the following areas: Areas of Significant contracts entered into by the Group.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
78 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF REXAM PLC CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Significant contracts entered into by the Group Refer to page 47 Audit & Risk Committee Report and page 90 We tested the Groups process for approving significant contracts Principal Accounting Policies.
including reviewing board papers approving significant new customer and supplier contracts.
The Groups business model contains an increasingly consolidated customer and supplier base.
The Group enters into long term contracts We examined significant new contracts, in particular those whose terms with both customers and suppliers, sometimes on a global basis.
We became effective in 2015, thereby triggering accounting in the financial focused on these contracts as they underpin a significant portion of statements for the year, and discussed the terms of the contracts with the Groups revenues and costs.
The nature of contracts entered into includes a number of We performed procedures to test whether up front payments received characteristics that require judgement to be applied in determining from suppliers or made to customers were recognised in the income the appropriate accounting based on the contractual terms.
statement in accordance with the nature of the payment and in the proper period, based on: Our audit procedures focused, in particular, on the following contractual judgements: evaluating the contract terms and when those terms become effective: the nature of the payment and the prevailing accounting guidance.
the accounting for up front payments including the nature of the payment new contract or extension of an existing contract and the We tested the calculation of customer rebates by confirming the appropriate amortisation period over which the payment is recognised: rebate payable with the customer or checking volumes used in the the calculation of any annual customer rebates including whether calculation of the rebate to actual volumes and against any other contractual volume targets and other criteria for payment receipt obligations set out in the relevant contract terms.
We determined have been met: amounts were accurately based on actual volumes.
the application of contractual take or pay obligations in supplier With respect to take or pay obligations present in both supplier and customer contracts, we agreed the volumes purchased from vendors and contracts, in particular assumptions over whether contractual commitments have given rise to any onerous supply contracts sold to customers to contract minimums, or examined communications from the supplier waiving Rexams obligations.
Based on the work based on agreed contract minimums: performed, we determined that no onerous supply obligations existed contracts, in particular assumptions over whether contractual and revenue from customers based on contract minimums was commitments have given rise to any revenue due from appropriately earned.
customers based on agreed contract minimums: and To evaluate whether the pricing terms in supplier and customer the contracts based on pricing terms and expected contract cash flows, contracts modify the cash flows such that an embedded derivative and whether such derivatives have been accounted for separately should be accounted for separately from the contract, we discussed in accordance with applicable accounting requirements.
the terms of the contracts with the Rexam treasury team and based We undertake these procedures to ensure that revenue and costs on our own assessment of the terms and the expected contract cash arising from these contracts are recognised in the correct period.
flows we are satisfied that, where required, embedded derivatives within the contracts were accounted for correctly.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 79 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment Refer to page 47 Audit & Risk Committee Report, page 89 We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts used to assess the Principal Accounting Policies and page 104 notes.
carrying value of cash generating units with particular focus on Turkey, Egypt, Russia, Saudi Arabia, and Brazil.
This included updating our The carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2015 is 1,235 million.
understanding the process by which they were drawn up and comparing In determining whether there was a risk of impairment we focused on them to the latest Board approved three year plans, which we found to the estimated values in use in the following territories each representing be consistent.
We also tested the mechanics of the underlying value in a cash generating unit : Turkey 40 million goodwill, Egypt 26 million use calculations.
goodwill, Russia 19 million goodwill, Saudi Arabia 16 million We tested managements budgeting accuracy in respect of budgeted goodwill and Brazil 205 million goodwill as these territories are profit for the 2015 year end for evidence of the reliability of the Groups considered to be those where there is a heightened risk of political budgeting process.
For differences identified we understood the drivers or economic volatility and hence the calculation of the value in use and included this within our sensitivity analysis.
for these businesses requires management to apply an increased level of judgement.
We evaluated the directors key assumptions long term growth rates and the discount rates in the cash flow forecasts, comparing against In particular we focused on the impact of key assumptions around: our own independently determined acceptable ranges and in respect the cash flow forecasts derived from internal forecasts and of differences identified these did not change the conclusion for any the assumptions around performance of new contracts and of the territories.
major customers: We performed sensitivity analysis over the forecast cash flows by the discount rate and the long term growth rate including considering the status of global bids, commercial performance of major the assessment of risk factors and growth expectations customers, and comparing growth targets against historic performance of the relevant territory.
Given the risk of volatility we ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively The key assumptions for these businesses are set out in note 12. would be required for the goodwill in these businesses to be impaired.
We considered the likelihood of such a movement in those assumptions arising, noting no such reasonably likely scenario.
We also evaluated the adequacy of the disclosures made regarding the assumptions and consider the disclosures appropriate.
Provision for tax exposures Refer to page 47 Audit & Risk Committee Report and page 90 We involved our teams in the relevant jurisdictions who have knowledge Principal Accounting Policies.
of the local tax law, including updating our understanding of any updates to, and developments in, the application of those laws, to understand The Group operates in a number of territories and recognises tax the extent of the exposure arising from the Groups arrangements and provisions based on interpretation of local laws and regulations the rationale for existing provisions held.
We also considered the history which are sometimes uncertain.
of past experience of the accuracy of the directors estimates of potential The Group has established provisions against uncertain tax positions, exposures, where relevant, by comparing to actual settlements and particularly in Brazil, Russia, the US and the UK.
These provisions found the current provisioning to be consistent with that experience.
require director judgement in estimating the potential outcome, We obtained the latest correspondence between the Group and the including magnitude.
relevant tax authorities and considered the views of the Groups external advisers on these matters where appropriate.
We met with senior management and evaluated the judgements specific to each exposure and jurisdiction and evaluated the appropriateness of the provisions made and found the directors estimates to be reasonable based on the correspondence and other information obtained.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Groups accounting process is structured around a local finance function in each of the 56 beverage can plants, including one associate and two joint ventures which report into a centralised finance function for each of the four geographical sectors in which the Group operates.
The service centre in Charlotte carries out transaction processing for Beverage Cans North America and reports to the Group finance team.
The sectors and the service centre maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the Group finance team through an integrated consolidation system.
80 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF REXAM PLC CONTINUED In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined that we needed to conduct audit work over the complete financial information of each of the sectors.
The sectors that are part of our audit scope account for 100% of Group revenues and 100% of Group profit before tax, exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets, and the fair value adjustment on derivatives.
In each geographical sector we used PwC component auditors to audit and report on the aggregated financial information of that sector.
Those teams, with our involvement, determined the individual beverage can plants within that sector to be audited based on their individual financial significance to the sector and Group.
This resulted in audit procedures being conducted on can plants that represent over 90% of the Group revenues and 91% of Group profit before tax, exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets, and the fair value adjustment on derivatives.
In relation to the Charlotte shared service centre we instructed specified audit procedures to be performed over the balances and transactions processed in that location that were material to the Group.
In the current year members of the Group engagement team visited all four sector finance functions to update our understanding of the local environment and any audit risks arising and attend the sector clearance meetings.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and financial statement items accounted for centrally, including derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting, goodwill impairment, and share based payments were also audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 18 million 2014: 18 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, and the fair value change on derivatives Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax is the key measure used by the shareholders as a body in assessing the Groups performance.
We consider that excluding exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets, and the fair value adjustment on derivatives is appropriate as this provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality by eliminating the non recurring impact of these items.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 4 million and 11 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million 2014: 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
GOING CONCERN Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 51, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 81 OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: The Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the annual report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 73, in accordance with We have no exceptions to report.
provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the annual report on pages 46 to 51, as required by We have no exceptions to report.
provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 48 of the annual report, We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 51 of the annual report, in We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
82 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF REXAM PLC CONTINUED RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 73, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Rexam PLC for the year ended 31 December 2015 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Neil Grimes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 18 February 2016
