The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of The Restaurant Group plc Opinion on In our opinion: financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent of The Restaurant companys affairs as at 27 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Group plc the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Parent Company Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds and the related notes 1 to 27.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern and the As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the directors assessment appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within the accounting policies of the principal risks to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group that would threaten contained within the strategic report.
the solvency or liquidity We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: of the Group the directors' confirmation on page 24 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on page 24 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the Report of the Directors about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the directors explanation on page 25 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest of risks of material effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of misstatement the engagement team.
56 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of tangible fixed assets To audit the risk of potential fixed asset impairment our audit Tangible fixed assets are the most quantitatively significant procedures included the following: item on the balance sheet with a net book value at We challenged managements identification of CGUs and 27 December 2015 of 403.6 million 2014: 368.6 million.
whether it is appropriate given the requirements in IAS 36, See note 11 to the financial statements.
Specifically we considered whether it is The fixed asset balance is primarily comprised of freehold appropriate to treat certain sites together in clusters, and leasehold buildings and the plant and equipment therein given their location and impact of customers.
that support the Groups restaurant operations.
There are We also considered the indicators of impairment identified by 506 2014: 472 separate restaurant sites.
management, if any, and performed an analysis to challenge The assessment of the carrying value of tangible fixed assets their assumptions.
Our work included: requires evaluating whether any indicators of impairment exist assessing mechanical accuracy of managements plans: in the asset base by reference to expected future profitability obatining evidence to support the growth and discount rates of cash generating units CGUs within the restaurant estate.
analysing historical and budgeted branch performance: This is recognised as a critical judgement in the accounting policies on page 63 of the financial statements.
benchmarking plans for improved profitability with comparator sites, for example those sites of similar size or in similar locations such as town centres or retail parks considering other factors such as co-location of sites with other Group brands.
In addition, we held discussions with business heads to corroborate the assumptions of improved profitability supporting the asset value.
Recognition of commercial discounts We held meetings with those negotiating commercial discount The restaurant business uses a wide range of suppliers.
It is arrangements to identify the types of deal in place.
typical for suppliers to be on term contracts mostly annual Our substantive testing focused on completeness of discount and as part of the process to agree the contract, it is common arrangements, cut-off and the appropriate recognition in the for price discounts to be agreed.
These principally take the financial year by: form of rebates for meeting quantitative volume targets.
See agreeing and recalculating amounts recorded to a sample accounting policies on page 63. of supplier contracts and the actual cash receipt or accrued The recognition of commercial discounts in the Income income : Statement within cost of sales is a risk given their scale and, comparing amounts recorded for suppliers with discount in certain cases, the judgement that is required in calculating arrangements to amounts recognised in prior periods and the discount.
obtaining evidence and or explantions for changes.
Commercial discounts should be recognised in accordance With reference to ageing of amounts outstanding, we have with negotiated supplier contracts and over the correct period also assessed the reasonableness of any provisions held to which they relate.
57 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of The Restaurant Group plc Last year our report included one other risk relating to lease accounting which is not included in our report this year.
The significant majority of leases are on standard terms and we have determined there is limited judgement in determining whether the lease qualifies as an operating lease or a finance lease.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 54.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it of materiality probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 4.3m 2014: 4.0m, which is below 5% 2014: 5% of statutory pre-tax profit in line with market practice, and below 2% 2014: 2% of equity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 86,000 2014: 80,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, scope of our audit including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on this assessment, and as in the prior year, our group audit scope focused on the Groups head office in London and the accounting function in Chester, which were subject to a full audit.
This represents 100% of the Groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual subsidiary entity, which were lower than group materiality.
All audit work done across all components was carried out by the Group audit team.
Opinion on other In our opinion: matters prescribed the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in by the Companies Act accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and 2006 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we are required to we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or report by exception adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate Adequacy of for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or explanations received and accounting records the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
58 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Our duty to read other Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, information in the in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Annual Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible responsibilities of for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and directors and auditor fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial of the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from statements material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Lee-Amies, FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 9 March 2016 59
