Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance | Independent auditors report to the members of Rightmove plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit and conditions.
Given the variety of individual contract terms and that revenue is the most material gure in the financial 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements statements, we consider a signi cant risk exists in relation to is unmodi ed revenue recognition: speci cally that the billing of customers We have audited the financial statements of Rightmove plc for is not in line with the contract terms, with resulting revenue the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 70 to not being recognised appropriately.
In our opinion: Our response: Our audit procedures included testing the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at Groups controls over the billing of customers in line with 31 December 2015 and of the Groups pro t for the year contract terms and product usage.
For Agency, New Homes then ended: and Overseas, which cover 95% of revenue recognised in the Group financial statements have been properly prepared the year, we performed detailed procedures using computer in accordance with International Financial Reporting assisted audit techniques to analyse the amounts billed to Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as customers by product in order to identify and investigate any adopted by the EU : anomalies and outliers.
We considered whether amounts the parent Company financial statements have been billed had been recognised as revenue in the correct properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by accounting period by comparing the period of subscription the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of or usage of additional advertising products to the timing of the Companies Act 2006: and revenue recognition.
We inspected signi cant contracts the financial statements have been prepared in accordance signed in the year on a sample basis, to assess whether with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, revenue has been recognised in accordance with the as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the speci c contract terms and conditions and relevant IAS Regulation.
We assessed the appropriateness of deferred revenue at the period end with reference to 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement subscription fee billings in December and speci c product We summarise below the risks of material misstatement that deferrals, where amounts are billed in advance but revenue had the greatest effect on our audit, our key audit procedures recognition deferred until use or expiry.
We also considered to address those risks and our findings from those procedures the adequacy of the Groups accounting policy and in order that the Companys members as a body may better disclosures see Notes 1, 2 and 5 in respect of revenue understand the process by which we arrived at our audit recognition, and whether disclosures properly re ect the opinion.
Our findings are the result of procedures undertaken risks inherent in recognising revenue.
in the context of and solely for the purpose of our statutory Our findings: Our testing did not identify weaknesses in the audit opinion on the financial statements as a whole and design and operation of controls that would have required consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not us to expand the extent of our planned detailed testing.
express discrete opinions on separate elements of the Our computer assisted audit techniques did not reveal financial statements.
any differences for which we were unable to appropriate explanation and we found that revenue was recognised in Revenue recognition 192,129,000 line with the period of subscription or usage of additional Refer to page 33 Corporate governance report, page 81 products.
We found that revenue was recognised in respect accounting policy and pages 84 to 85 financial disclosures of the signi cant contracts selected for testing in line with The risk: Revenue primarily consists of subscription fees the underlying contractual terms and we found no errors in and customer spend on additional advertising products the Groups calculation of deferred revenue at the year end.
in respect of properties listed on rightmove.
co. uk and is We found the groups disclosures to be proportionate in recognised over the period of subscription or as additional their description of the assumptions and estimates made advertising products are used.
Individual contracts exist with by the group.
each customer, which include a variety of differing terms Rightmove plc annual report 2015 67 Governance | Independent auditors report to the members of Rightmove plc only continued We continue to perform audit procedures over risk of 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures misstatement of share-based incentives charge and related of principal risks deferred tax charge and asset.
However, as there are no Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we complex new schemes and the underlying assumptions used, have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: and the Groups model for quantifying the expense, are now the directors viability statement on page 17, concerning better established, we have not assessed this as one of the the principal risks, their management, and, based on risks that had the greatest effect on our audit and, therefore, that, the directors assessment and expectations of the it is not separately identi ed in our report this year.
Group continuing in operation over the three years to 31 December 2018: or 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements of the scope of our audit concerning the use of the going concern basis The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole of accounting.
was set at 6.7m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group pro t before tax of which it represents 4.9%.
We have nothing to report in respect of We report to the Audit Committee any uncorrected the matters on which we are required to report identi ed misstatements exceeding 0.34m, in addition to by exception other identi ed misstatements that warranted reporting on Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you qualitative grounds.
We report misstatements corrected by if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we management where we believe these will assist the audit have identi ed other information in the annual report that committee in ful lling its governance responsibilities.
contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge The Group audit team also audits the single wholly owned or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, subsidiary, Rightmove Group Limited with a component or that is otherwise misleading.
The Group procedures covered all of the operations of the Group, and accordingly 100% of total Group In particular, we are required to report to you if: revenue: 100% of Group pro t before taxation and 100% of we have identi ed material inconsistencies between the total Group assets were audited.
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and Companies Act 2006 is unmodi ed understandable and provides the information necessary In our opinion: for shareholders to assess the groups position and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited performance, business model and strategy: or has been properly prepared in accordance with the the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address Companies Act 2006: matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report statements are prepared is consistent with the financial to you if, in our opinion: statements: and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have set out on page 35 with respect to internal control and risk not been received from branches not visited by us: or management systems in relation to financial reporting the parent company financial statements and the part of processes and about share capital structures is consistent the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not with the financial statements.
in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or 68 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statements, set out on pages 17 and 77 in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 26 to 31 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code speci ed for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 41, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014b, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Karen Wightman Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Altius House One North Fourth Street Milton Keynes MK9 1NE 26 February 2016 Rightmove plc annual report 2015 69
