Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited For the purpose of this report, the terms we and our denote What we have audited  LLP in relation to UK legal, professional and The Rio Tinto Group financial statements, included within the Annual regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of report and Accounts the Annual report, comprise: Rio Tinto plc and  in relation to Australian legal, the Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: professional and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive the members of Rio Tinto Limited.
The Group financial statements, as income for the year then ended: defined below, consolidate the accounts of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited and their respective subsidiaries the Group and include the the Group cash flow statement for the year then ended: Groups share of joint arrangements and associates.
the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: notes 1 45 and 47 to the Group financial statements, which include The relevant legislation governing the companies is the United Kingdom a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory Companies Act 2006 for Rio Tinto plc and the Corporations Act 2001 as information: amended by the ASIC order dated 14 December 2015 the ASIC Order for Rio Tinto Limited.
the outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements page 112 : and Report on the financial statements and the financial report the Rio Tinto financial information by business unit.
Opinion of  LLP on the financial statements The Rio Tinto plc company financial statements, included within the to the members of Rio Tinto plc Annual report, comprise: In our opinion: the Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: and the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of notes A-G to the Rio Tinto plc financial statements, which include a the state of the Groups and of Rio Tinto plcs affairs as at summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 31 December 2015 and of the Groups loss and cash flows for the information.
year then ended: The Groups financial statements and the Rio Tinto plc company financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in statements are referred to in this report as the financial statements.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union:  LLP has audited the Group financial statements the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements have been properly and the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements for the year ended prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 31 December 2015.
Accounting Practice: and  has audited the Reconciliation with Australian the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Accounting Standards, the Directors remuneration report included in the , asregardstheGroup Directors report and the financial report for 31 December 2015.
The financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
financial report, included within the Annual report, comprises the Group financial statements, Note 46 Rio Tinto Limited parent company Separate opinion of  LLP in relation to IFRSs disclosures and the Directors declaration on page 200. as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition Annual report rather than in the notes to the financial statements and to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied the financial report.
These are cross-referenced from the financial IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
statements and the financial report and are identified as audited.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the issued by the IASB.
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law in the United Kingdom, applicable law in Australia as amended by the ASIC Opinion of  on the financial report to the Order described in the Annual report under the heading Australian members of Rio Tinto Limited Corporations Act Summary of ASIC relief and IFRSs as adopted by In our opinion: the European Union and as issued by the IASB.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the the financial report, as defined below, is in accordance with the preparation of the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements is Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order, including: United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, Reduced i. giving a true and fair view of the Groups financial position as Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally at 31 December 2015 and of its performance for the year Accepted Accounting Practice.
ended on that date: All currency references are to the United States Dollar, unless ii.
complying with Australian Accounting Standards including otherwise stated.
Australian Accounting Interpretations and the Corporations Regulations 2001: and the Group financial statements also comply with IFRSs as disclosed in note 1.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Our audit approach Rio Tintos principal activities are minerals and metals exploration, development, production and processing.
The Group operates through four product groups and 84 business units.
Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: $300 million 2014: $600 million, which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for items excluded from underlying earnings as defined in note 2 to the Group financial statements.
The lower materiality in 2015 reflects the lower underlying ,  commodity prices.
Scope We identified two business units 2014: three which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their financial significance to the Group.
Those business units were Pilbara previously audited separately as Hamersley Iron and Robe River and Escondida.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 17 business units 2014: 14, which comprised 12 2014: 6 operating business units and 5 2014: 8 central business units, such as treasury entities.
As a consequence of the lower Group materiality we brought additional business units into scope and performed extended audit procedures at in-scope business units to maintain appropriate audit coverage.
Areas of focus We assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements and determined that they remain consistent with 2014.
Impairment assessments including indicators of impairment and impairment reversal, with a particular focus on goodwill Roughrider, property, plant and equipment Energy Resources of Australia and Oyu Tolgoi and exploration and evaluation assets Simandou and Roughrider.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions.
Provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental obligations.
Defined benefit pension plan surpluses and deficits.
Impact of ongoing finance transformation, including shared services transition, on the control environment.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland and Australian Auditing Standards ASAs.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment reversal of impairment assessment Rio Tinto has goodwill of $892 million, indefinite-lived intangible assets of For all material goodwill balances, indefinite-lived intangible assets, $1,655 million, property, plant and equipment of $61,057 million, and property, plant and equipment, and exploration and evaluation assets exploration and evaluation assets of $706 million as at 31 December 2015, we undertook the following: contained within 47 cash generating units CGUs.
Impairment charges We satisfied ourselves as to the appropriateness of managements to each of these asset categories have been recognised in prior periods.
identification of the Groups CGUs and the continued satisfactory In 2015 a pre-tax impairment charge of $2,791 million was recognised, operation of the Groups controls over the impairment which primarily related to goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant assessment process.
We evaluated managements assessment of impairment indicators, All CGUs containing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets must be as well as indicators of impairment reversal, including the tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Management must also conclusions reached.
determine the recoverable amount for other assets including property, With the support of our valuation specialists, we benchmarked plant and equipment and evaluation and exploration assets when key market related assumptions in managements valuation impairment or impairment reversal indicators are identified.
models used to determine recoverable amount, including future commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and discount rates, For the CGUs which contain Rio Tintos goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible against external data.
assets, property, plant and equipment, and exploration and evaluation assets, the determination of recoverable amount, being the higher of We verified the mathematical accuracy of managements valuation value-in-use and fair value less costs to dispose, requires judgement on models and agreed relevant data, including assumptions on timing the part of management in both identifying and then valuing the relevant and future capital and operating expenditure, to the latest Life of CGUs.
 Mine production plans and budgets.
variables and market conditions such as future commodity prices, the timing and approval of future capital and operating expenditure, and the most appropriate discount rate.
As well as considering indicators of impairment, management must determine whether any indicators of reversal of previous impairments are apparent for assets other than goodwill.
Due to the decrease in commodity prices during the year, impairment reversals were only considered in a limited number of cases.
No impairment reversals were recognised.
com 203 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus In relation to specific projects or business units we noted the following: In addition to our overall response to impairment risk described above, we performed additional procedures on certain projects or business units as follows: Roughrider in late 2015 the Group finalised an Order of Magnitude study Roughrider assessed the outcome of managements recently for the Roughrider uranium project.
Taking into account Rio Tintos completed Order of Magnitude study, which included a revised updated view of the development concept and geological model, a pre-tax geological model and an updated market outlook.
: impairment charge of $116 million was recognised against goodwill, and a ERA checked managements decision not to continue to support further $113 million against evaluation and exploration assets.
ERAs Ranger 3 Deeps project through Rio Tinto board and committee meeting minutes and public announcements.
: Energy Resources of Australia ERA in June 2015 Rio Tinto announced that it supported ERAs decision not to proceed with the Final Feasibility Oyu Tolgoi read the Underground Mine Development and Study of the Ranger 3 Deeps project.
Rio Tinto also announced that it did Financing Plan and independently assessed managements projectnot support any further study or future development of Ranger 3 Deeps specific discount rate, considering the terms of the project finance due to the projects economic challenges.
As a result, at 30 June 2015 Rio agreement signed in 2015.
We also satisfied ourselves as to the Tinto recognised a pre-tax impairment charge of $260 million, appropriateness of the copper price assumptions used in predominantly related to property, plant and equipment.
: and Simandou understood the key findings from the draft bankable Oyu Tolgoi this project has progressed during 2015, including the feasibility studies and discussed these with management agreement of project-specific financing for the underground development responsible for the project, considered managements assessment phase.
However, forecast copper prices, to which the recoverable amount is sensitive, have declined.
Management conducted an assessment of the of external indicators of value for the project and considered the judgements taken by management in determining the impairment  i charge.
Principal accounting policies Depreciation and impairment utilising those forecast copper prices and a project-specific discount rate.
We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 6 to , port the financial statements, including the sensitivities provided with respect to Oyu Tolgoi.
infrastructure and rail infrastructure to support the Simandou project was delayed in 2015 due to the Ebola epidemic in West Africa.
Draft separate feasibility studies for the mine, port and rail were issued in December 2015 with the final integrated feasibility study due in May 2016.
Due to current market conditions and uncertainty over infrastructure ownership and funding Rio Tinto recognised a pre-tax impairment charge of $2,039 million, predominantly related to exploration and evaluation assets and property, plant and equipment.
Refer to note 6 for managements conclusions and the Audit Committees views set out on page 59.
Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations Rio Tinto has provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental We assessed managements process for the review of provisions, and obligations of $8,426 million as at 31 December 2015. performed detailed testing of the 31 December 2015 provision for five business units.
For the remaining business units, including legacy The calculation of these provisions requires management judgement in operations, we assessed provision movements in the year relating to estimating the quantum and timing of future costs, particularly given the close-down, restoration and environmental obligations to check they unique nature of each site, the long timescales involved and the potential were consistent with our understanding of the asset and associated associated obligations.
These calculations also require management to remediation plans.
determine an appropriate rate to discount these future costs back to their net present value.
As part of our detailed testing of the cost estimates prepared by management for the five business units selected, we established the The judgement required to estimate such costs is further compounded by existence of legal and or constructive obligations with respect to the the fact that there has been limited restoration and rehabilitation activity restoration and rehabilitation for each business unit to assess the and historical precedent against which to benchmark estimates of future appropriateness of the intended method of restoration and costs.
rehabilitation and associated cost estimate.
Management reviews the close-down, restoration and environment We also considered the competence and objectivity of managements obligations on a semi-annual basis, using experts to provide support in its experts, whether internal or external to Rio Tinto, who produced the assessment where appropriate.
This review incorporates the effects of any cost estimates.
changes in local regulations and managements anticipated approach to restoration and rehabilitation.
We validated the accuracy of calculations and the appropriateness of the discount rate using our valuations specialists.
Refer to note 26 and the Audit Committees views set out on page 59.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Group operates across a large number of jurisdictions and is subject to We assessed managements process for identifying uncertain tax periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters positions and the related accounting policy of provisioning for during the normal course of business, including transfer pricing, indirect tax exposures.
taxes and transaction related tax matters.
As at 31 December 2015, the We used our tax specialists to gain an understanding of the current Group has current and non-current taxes payable of $430 million.
Where status of tax assessments and investigations and to monitor the amount of tax payable is uncertain, Rio Tinto establishes provisions developments in ongoing disputes.
We read recent rulings and based on managements judgement of the probable amount of the liability.
,  Refer to notes 17 and 31, and the Audit Committees views set out on received by the Group where relevant, to satisfy ourselves that the tax page 59. provisions had been appropriately recorded or adjusted to reflect the latest external developments.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Defined benefit pension plan surpluses and deficits The Group has approximately 60 defined benefit pension plans.
The total We used our actuarial specialists to satisfy ourselves that the fair value of plan assets is $13,642 million, and the total present value of assumptions used in calculating the pension plan liabilities, including obligations is $15,261 million, which are both significant in the context of salary increases and mortality rate assumptions, were consistent with .
the specifics of each plan and, where applicable, with relevant national and industry benchmarks.
We also verified that the discount and The valuation of the pension liabilities requires judgement in determining inflation rates used in the valuation of the pension liabilities were appropriate assumptions such as salary increases, mortality rates, consistent with our internally developed benchmarks and in line with discount rates, inflation levels and the impact of any changes in individual other companies recent external reporting.
Movements in these assumptions can have a material For pension plan assets, we obtained third party confirmations of impact on the determination of the liability.
Management uses external ownership and third party valuations of individual pension assets.
We actuaries to assist in assessing these assumptions.
re-performed a sample of the valuations independently, for example Judgement is also involved in the measurement of the fair value of certain testing the valuation of marketable securities to index prices as at pension assets.
31 December 2015, recalculating valuations based on observable Refer to notes 26 and 45 and the Audit Committees views set out on inputs and using our specialists to help us assess other individual asset page 59. values,  inputs, suchasproperty.
Finance transformation Shared services transition The shared services transition element of Rio Tintos Finance We updated our understanding of the Groups shared services transformation programme includes the centralisation and outsourcing of transition plans, including the timing of business unit transitions and certain back office finance activities excluding key controls to third-party the extent of activities being transferred.
The programme commenced in 2014 and is expected to We assessed the implementation of managements plans through the complete in 2016.
The largest business units had fully transitioned by the following: end of 2015.
Assessing the design effectiveness of internal controls over Certain of the activities being transitioned were previously undertaken in financial reporting in the processes impacted at both the Group and Rio Tintos own shared services centres.
A number of additional business business unit levels.
unit finance processes have also been transitioned in 2015.
Testing the operating effectiveness of key controls which operate This centralisation of finance processes and the associated transfer of within Rio Tintos retained organisation.
responsibilities created a risk of loss of knowledge which could adversely In respect of third-party outsourced service providers: affect the controls, or allow control gaps to emerge, during the transition Evaluating the Statements of Works governing the service level period.
There is also a risk that controls over financial reporting, which rely agreements with Rio Tinto and the associated key performance , oraretobe, transitionedmaynotbe indicators.
designed and or operate effectively.
Visiting the outsourced shared service centres to understand Refer to the Audit Committees views set out on page 59. thestructure, roles,  providers knowledge and understanding of the transitioned processes and procedures.
This provided evidence that key controls still remained within Rio Tintos retained organisation.
Obtaining a report from independent third parties on the Service Organisation Controls performed in accordance with the Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements SSAE No.
This provided evidence about the operating effectiveness of governance and entity level controls operated by the outsourced service providers.
 As the Group engagement team, we tailored the scope of our audit to required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on financial significance to the Group.
Those business units were Pilbara the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic previously considered as separate Hamersley Iron and Robe River structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the business units, with both subject to full scope audits and Escondida.
industry in which the Group operates.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 17 business units 2014: 14, primarily to ensure Following the reorganisation of the former Energy product group in .
 February 2015, the Group is organised into four product groups our overall materiality from $600 million to $300 million as explained Aluminium, Copper & Coal, Diamonds & Minerals, and Iron Ore all of below.
As we seek to vary our audit procedures each year to ensure an which are supported by centralised functions.
Each product group is element of unpredictability, two smaller business units 2014: two were made up of a number of operating businesses which represent separate included in our Group audit scope for 2015.
With the reduction in business units.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of materiality we extended certain of our procedures at in-scope business business units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and units when compared with those undertaken during the comparative centralised functions.
Based on this, we determined the appropriate period.
We also performed work centrally on IT general controls, journals, business units to perform work over based on factors such as the size of taxation, pensionsandtreasury,  thebalances,  noted above.
Together, the central and operating business units at which matters, and to include unpredictability in our audit procedures.
work was performed by the Group engagement team and component In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined auditors accounted for 83% of consolidated revenue, 82% of the type of work that needed to be performed at business units by us, as consolidated underlying profit before tax and 84% of consolidated total the Group engagement team, or component auditors from either other assets.
At the Group level, we also carried out analytical and other PwC network firms or non-PwC firms operating under our instruction.
In procedures on the business units not covered by the procedures 2015, we identified two business units 2014: three which, in our view, described above.
com 205 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the In addition, senior members of the Group engagement team visited level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those component teams across all four product groups in Canada, Australia, business units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate , Chile, Mongolia, andSingapore.
These audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group visits included meetings with local management and with the component financial statements as a whole.
auditors, and typically operating site tours.
We issued formal, written instructions to all component auditors setting Materiality out the audit work to be performed by each of them and maintained The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
regular communication with the component auditors throughout the We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These interactions included attending component clearance with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our meetings and holding regular conference calls, as well as reviewing and audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the assessing matters reported.
The Group engagement team also reviewed individual financial statement line items and disclosures and to evaluate certain audit working papers of the component auditors of Pilbara, the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial Escondida, Rio Tinto Aluminium and Turquoise Hill Resources.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality $300 million 2014: $600 million.
This reflects the lower profitability of the Group, principally due to the significant fall in commodity prices.
How we determined it Consistent with the prior year, 5% of profit before tax adjusted for items excluded from underlying earnings as defined in note 2 to the financial statements.
Rationale for benchmark We consider an adjusted measure to be one of the principal considerations for members in assessing the applied recurring financial performance of the Group as it best represents results from continuing operations.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that was less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated to each component was between $100 million and $250 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and misstatements identified during our audit above $30 million 2014: $50 Parent Companies Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have adequate million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
Going concern As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future statement, set out on page 105, in relation to going concern.
We have events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a nothing to report having performed our review.
guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companies ability to continue as Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are also required to report to you if we a going concern.
have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to Other required reporting  LLP adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We Consistency of other information have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Rio Tinto plc acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors on page 66, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code We have no exceptions the Code, that they consider the Annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the to report arising from information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Rio Tinto plcs position and performance, business model and this responsibility.
strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Rio Tinto plc acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual report on page 59, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit We have no exceptions Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
to report arising from this responsibility.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 64 of the Annual report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have We have nothing carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business material to add or to model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 15 of the Annual report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they We have nothing have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be material to add or to appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue draw attention to.
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viabilityoftheGroup, setoutonpage15.
 scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of accounting records  In our opinion, the Remuneration report included in the accompanying received Annual report complies with the requirements of section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Independence we have not received all the information and explanations we require In conducting our audit, we have complied with the independence for our audit: or requirements of the Corporations Act 2001. adequate accounting records have not been kept by Rio Tinto plc, or Responsibilities for the financial statements, the financial returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches report and the audit not visited by us: or Our responsibilities and those of the directors the Rio Tinto plc financial statements and the part of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibilities set remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the out on page 200, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the accounting records and returns.
financial statements and the financial report and for being satisfied that We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors remuneration directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion financial report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be fraud or error.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial Act 2006. statements and financial report in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland and Australian Auditing Standards respectively.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors and relevant ethical requirements our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified relating to audit engagements in Australia.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for Corporate governance statement the members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as a body in Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 in Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the respect of Rio Tinto plc and the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by Code.
the ASIC Order in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for Other required reporting  any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or Directors remuneration  consent in writing.
Directors remuneration report Corporations Act 2001 opinion Under the Corporations Act 2001 in respect of Rio Tinto Limited we are What an audit of financial statements involves required to express an opinion on the Directors remuneration report An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures included in the Directors report, based on our audit conducted in in the financial statements and the financial report sufficient to give accordance with Australian Auditing Standards.
The directors of Rio Tinto reasonable assurance that these are free from material misstatement, Limited are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Remuneration report in accordance with section 300A of the whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order.
the Parent Companies circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 207 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing directors: and techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through the overall presentation of the financial statements and the testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a financial report.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions.
statements and the financial report whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditors consider internal control In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the relevant to the entities preparation and fair presentation of the financial Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited statements and the financial report in order to design audit procedures financial statements and the audited financial report and to identify that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entities internal control.
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, for our report.
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements and the financial report.
Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor Paul Bendall Partner for and on behalf of  LLP for and on behalf of  Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom Melbourne, Australia 2 March 2016 2 March 2016 a The maintenance and integrity of the Rio Tinto Group website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom and Australia governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
