ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 92 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK PLC Opinion on financial In our opinion: statements of Rotork plc the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups and the parent companys profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 30.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report on page 47.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 91 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 44 to 47 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the directors explanation on page 47 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 93 Our assessment of risks The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest of material misstatement effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: The risks identified are the same risks as identified in the prior year: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of the carrying value of goodwill The gross carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2015 We challenged the reasonableness of the assumptions used was 222.1m.
Details of its valuation are included by in the forecast cashflow model with reference to the budgets management in the critical accounting estimates and approved by the Board.
judgements section on page 106 and note 10 to the accounts.
We performed a specific review and challenge, involving internal valuations specialists, of the discount rates applied Management perform an impairment review under IAS 36 for each CGU against the Group weighted average cost of Impairment of Assets on an annual basis and whenever capital and third party data relating to premiums applied to an indication of impairment exists.
take account of cash flows arising in overseas locations.
Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and We recalculated managements sensitivity analysis on key intangible assets is a significant risk due to the quantum assumptions and replaced key assumptions with alternative of the balance and the number of judgements involved in scenarios e. g. further changes in discount and assessing impairment, in particular in relation to the growth rates.
revenue and profit growth assumptions and the discount rates used for each cash generating unit CGU.
We evaluated the change in identified CGUs against how goodwill is monitored within the business and the extent to During the period management combined a number of which sale of products are made between the businesses.
the CGUs with the Instruments division to form the We also reviewed managements assessment that there was Instruments sub group.
This new CGU consists of the no impairment of the individual CGUs prior Fairchild, Soldo, YTC and Midland acquisitions.
changes in the businesses post acquisition, and cross selling of products within the division it is no longer We have reviewed the disclosures made in the financial possible to identify independent cash flows attributable statements and assessed compliance with IAS 36. to each of them.
Valuation of acquired intangibles During the year, the Group has acquired six businesses, Our audit of the acquired intangible assets focused on Bifold, Eltav, M&M, OMAS Teknik, Roto Hammer and SMS managements valuation model.
We challenged the key for total consideration of 147.6m.
66.7m of intangible assumptions including discount rates, growth rates and assets have been identified in relation to the acquisitions royalty rates.
We used our internal valuation specialists to in the year.
Details of their valuation are included by support our assessment of the discount rates.
management in the critical accounting estimates and judgements section on page 106 and note 3 to We challenged the reasonableness of underlying forecast the accounts.
cash flows through discussions with management, results of the business pre and post-acquisition and review of any The Bifold acquisition is individually significant with related financial due diligence reports.
separately identifiable intangible assets valued at 53.6m.
The valuation of intangible assets represents a key judgement area based on a number of inputs in the discounted cash flow and royalty relief valuations, which include the discount rates, growth rates and royalty rates.
Identified intangibles include brands, customer relationships, order book, intellectual property and product patent design.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 94 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK PLC CONTINUED Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of inventory The Group had inventory of 87.2m at 31 December 2015, Our audit work assessed the design and implementation held in numerous global locations across several product of controls in relation to the valuation of inventory with lines.
Details of its valuation are included by management a specific focus on the key judgements related to in the critical accounting estimates and judgements inventory provisions.
section on page 106 and note 14 to the accounts.
At our in-scope components we compared the There is a risk of obsolescence of stock in niche markets methodology applied in calculating the provision to the and industries where customer demand fluctuates over Groups policy.
We investigated manual overrides to the periods.
Both raw materials and finished goods require application of the policy and obtained evidence to support assessment for provisions based on past and predicted any significant adjustments.
The calculation of the provisions requires application of judgement by management.
Our work on provisions included agreeing the provision calculations to historical inventory usage and ageing data.
There is a risk that local systems can present inconsistent We recalculated provisions based on this data.
data and or management override occurs.
Defined benefit pension liability valuation The Group has a defined benefit pension net liability of We challenged the key assumptions supporting 23.3m gross liabilities of 180.4m at 31 December managements valuation of the pension liability.
Details of the valuation of the liability is included by internal actuarial experts to compare the discount, inflation management in the critical accounting estimates and and life expectancy rates against externally derived data and judgements section on page 106 and note 24 to determined whether the key assumptions are reasonable.
We challenged management to understand the sensitivity of There is a risk relating to judgements made by changes in assumptions and quantify a range of reasonable management in valuing the defined benefit pension plans rates that could be used in their calculation.
as small changes in the key model input assumptions such as the discount rate, mortality assumption and inflation We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures rate, can have a signficant effect on the valuation in respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to changes in these of the liability.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 70 and 71.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that materiality makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 5.3m 2014: 6.9m, which is 5% of pre-tax profit.
The decrease in materiality is a result of the reduction in profit before tax compared to the prior year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 106,000 2014: 138,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 95 An overview of the scope Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its of our audit environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at a group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 32 components.
24 components were subject to a full scope audit and audit procedures were performed on key account balances at the other eight locations where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
85% 95% PROFIT REVENUE BEFORE TAX The 32 locations represent the principal business units within the Groups four reportable segments across 16 countries and account for 85% of the Groups revenues, 95% of profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at these locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality ranging from 1.9m to 2.9m.
Due to the significance to the group audit of the 24 components operations subject to full scope audits, a programme has been designed and implemented for senior members of the group audit team to visit the key components where the group audit scope was focused at least once every three years.
As part of the 2015 audit, senior members of the group audit team visited key components in the United Kingdom, Italy, United States of America, China, Korea, Dubai and Australia.
For each of the businesses included within the programme of planned visits, the group audit team also discusses audit findings with the relevant component audit team throughout the audit engagement and reviews relevant audit working papers.
For the remaining locations where full audits were completed, we discuss audit findings with the relevant component audit team, review audit working papers in relation to key issues and discuss key matters with divisional management where considered necessary in forming our group audit opinion.
In relation to the locations which were subject to an audit of key account balances, we discuss the results of these businesses and accounting matters arising through our involvement in close meetings with management.
At the parent entity level, we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining 34 components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
None of these components represented more than 2% of revenue, profit before taxation or total group net assets individually.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 96 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK PLC CONTINUED Opinion on other matters In our opinion: prescribed by the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared Companies Act 2006 in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: received and accounting we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or records adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to information in the Annual you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 97 Respective As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsibilities of responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they directors and auditor give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial financial statements statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Nicola Mitchell FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 29 February 2016
