Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 73 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RPC GROUP PLC ONLY Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of RPC Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2015 set out on pages 76 to 122.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows.
Fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and intangibles 213.2 million.
Refer to page 65 Audit Committee statement, page 83 accounting policy and page 113 financial disclosures.
The risk During the year, the Group purchased a controlling interest in Ace Corporation Holdings Limited Ace and Promens Group AS Promens respectively.
Under the relevant accounting standard, assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition, with provisional fair values being assigned to the assets and liabilities of Promens given that this acquisition occurred late in the financial year.
The allocation of the purchase consideration to the identified assets and liabilities requires significant judgement to be applied by the Board.
There are also areas where calculations are technically complex, or require specific expertise.
These include, in particular, out-of-market contracts, customer relationships and brands.
Any misallocation between Goodwill and other acquired assets, liabilities and intangibles can have a material impact on the financial statements, as Goodwill is not amortised to the income statement, but subject to an annual impairment review.
Therefore both the balance sheet and amortisation charged to the income statement may be misstated.
This is a significant risk on which our audit is concentrated.
Our response Our audit procedures focussed on the areas of risk which we judge to be the most significant, being the valuation of out-of-market contract provisions, customer relationships and brand assets.
For out-of-market contracts, we used our experience from past acquisitions and both internal and external data to assess whether the Boards judgements as to the range of margins applied to identify out-of-market contracts was reasonable.
We agreed key items back to legal contracts, and considered the arithmetic accuracy of managements calculations.
We also considered whether the length of time covered by the provisions was appropriate, especially where the contract was not for a specified period.
In assessing customer relationships, we utilised our own valuation experts to review the calculation which the management had prepared.
We challenged the assumptions made, including the rate of customer attrition, and inspected the financial due diligence reports performed on the acquired businesses to corroborate these.
We also challenged the Boards assessment of the fair value of any brands purchased with the acquired business.
Our procedures included comparisons to previous acquisitions in the industry.
We also considered the adequacy of disclosures in respect of the business combination in the financial statements.
Presentation of costs as exceptional 42.9 million.
Refer to page 64 Audit Committee statement, page 86 accounting policy and page 92 financial disclosures.
The risk The Group has undertaken a restructuring programme, Fitter for the Future.
This has resulted in restructuring, impairment and other exceptional items directly incurred as a result of the restructuring process being presented as non-underlying in the income statement.
These costs represent a difference between operating profit under EU-IFRS and underlying operating profit.
Significant judgement is required in the classification of costs as non-recurring and given the scrutiny of underlying profit by external parties, there is a risk that underlying profit could be overstated.
The allocation of these items to be classified as non-recurring is therefore a key judgemental area that our audit is concentrated on.
Our response Our audit procedures included obtaining a breakdown of non-recurring costs recognised in the period: agreeing amounts back to available evidence such as payroll records: discussion with personnel responsible for the operational delivery of the restructuring project.
We also challenged the Groups classification of these items as separate from underlying profit by considering whether such costs could be directly attributable to the restructuring program and if the presentation and disclosure were consistent with the Groups approach in previous years.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 5.8m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before tax adjusted for the items disclosed in note 4 to the financial statements, excluding amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension administration costs, of 110.0m, of which it represents 5.3%.
We report to the Audit Committee all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 0.3m either individually or in aggregate, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
74 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RPC GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued Of the Groups reporting components we subjected six to audits for Group reporting purposes and six to reviews of financial information including enquiry The latter were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but provided further audit coverage over the groups position and results.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results: Total profits and Number of Group losses comprising Group total components revenue Group profit before tax assets Audits for Group reporting purposes 6 61% 67% 77% Reviews of financial information including enquiry 6 20% 13% 9% Total 12 81% 80% 86% The remaining 19% of total Group revenue, 20% of total profits and losses comprising Group profit before tax and 14% of total Group assets is represented by a number of reporting components, none of which individually represented more than 4% of any of total Group revenue, total profits and losses comprising Group profit before tax or total Group assets.
For these remaining components, we performed analysis at a group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the Group were all performed to materiality levels set by, or agreed with the Group audit team, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
These materiality levels were set at the lower of local statutory materiality, where there is a statutory obligation for an audit, or component materiality set by us.
This resulted in component materialities of 0.7m to 4.0m.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all of the in-scope component audit teams.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered by the component audit teams which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team attended the local audit completion meetings of all components subject to audits for Group reporting purposes.
These included meetings for Germany, France, Hong Kong, Norway and the United Kingdom.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on page 42 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Group Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 75 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 42 relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 72, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Greg Watts Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants One Snowhill Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham B4 6GH 10 June 2015
