Other information Independent Auditors report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED pressure on and incentives for management to meet the latest when considering the risk relating to The presentation of G guidance increases the inherent risk of manipulation of the Group underlying profit refer to page 171 and the risk relating financial statements.
The financial results are sensitive to significant toDisclosure of the effect on the trend in profit of items which are H estimates and judgements, particularly in respect of revenues and uneven in frequency or amount refer to page 172, wesought costs associated with long-term contracts, and there is a broad range to identify items that affected profit and or the trend in profit of acceptable outcomes of these that could lead to different levels unevenly in frequency or amount especially those where ofprofit and revenue being reported in the financial statements.
management had a greater degree of discretion over the timing Relatively small changes in the basis of those judgements and or scale of transactions entered into at a much lower level than estimates could result in the Group meeting, exceeding or falling we would otherwise have done and to assess the balance and shortof guidance.
transparency of disclosure of these items.
The significance of the risk has increased marginally due to revisions Our findings Our testing did not identify any indication of to guidance issued during the year, continuing deterioration in the manipulation of results 2014 audit finding: one instance which short-term business outlook and the incidence of individually wascorrected by management.
We found the degree of caution significant items affecting profit.
optimism adopted in estimates to be slightly less cautious than inthe previous year, but balanced overall.
We found that there was Our response We have: i extended our enquiries designed toassess ample unbiased disclosure of items affecting the trend in profit.
whether judgements and estimates exhibited unconscious bias or B whether management had taken systematic actions tomanipulate T he basis of accounting for revenue and profit in the the reported results: ii compared the results toforecasts and CivilAerospace business challenged variances at a much lower level than wewould otherwise Refer to page 113 and 114 Key areas of judgement Introduction, have done based on our understanding of factors affecting business Contractual aftermarket rights, Linkage of original and long-term performance with corroboration using external data where possible: aftermarket contracts, pages 116 and 117 Significant accounting and iii applied an increased level ofscepticism throughout the audit policies Revenue recognition and pages 93 and 94 by increasing the involvement ofthe senior audit team personnel, AuditCommittee report Financial reporting with particular focus on audit procedures designed to assess whether The risk The amount of revenue and profit recognised in a year on revenues and costs have been recognised in the correct accounting the sale of engines and aftermarket services is dependent, inter alia, period, whether central adjustments were appropriate and whether on the appropriate assessment of whether or not each long-term the segmental analysis has been properly prepared.
aftermarket contract for services is linked to or separate from the In particular: contract for sale of the related engines as this drives the accounting basis to be applied.
As the commercial arrangements can be when considering the risk relating to The measurement of revenue complex, significant judgement is applied in selecting the C and profit in the Civil Aerospace business refer to page 169, accounting basis in each case.
The most significant risk is that wechallenged the basis for changes in the estimated revenues theGroup might inappropriately account for sales of engines and and costs in long-term contracts, with a heightened awareness long-term service agreements as a single arrangement as this ofthe possibility of unconscious or systematic bias, particularly would usually lead to revenue and profit being recognised too early regarding the refinement in the basis of measurement of the risk because the margin in the long-term service agreement is usually contingency for forecasts of future revenue to be earned under higher than the margin in the engine sale agreement.
long-term contracts which resulted in recognition of profit of189m: The significance of the risk has increased marginally during the year due to the identification of one instance where the Group had to when considering the risk relating to Recoverability of intangible apply significant judgement in concluding that it was appropriate assets in the Civil Aerospace business D refer to page 170, to account for the sale of engines and the long-term service wechallenged with a heightened awareness of the possibility agreement as a single arrangement.
ofunconscious or systematic bias the basis for changes in the estimated maintenance costs which led to the reversal of the Our response We re-evaluated the appropriateness of the impairment on certain Trent 1000 launch engine Contractual accounting bases the Group applies in the Civil Aerospace business aftermarket rights CARs assets and a related provision which byreference to accounting standards and re-examining historical resulted in recognition of profit of 65m and avoidance long-term aftermarket contracts.
We considered whether the ofimpairments of 22m that otherwise would have beenrecorded: disclosure included in the financial statements enables shareholders to understand how the accounting policies represent the commercial w hen considering the risk relating to The basis of accounting for substance of the Groups contracts with its customers.
We made B revenue and profit in the Civil Aerospace business refer below, ourown independent assessment, with reference to the relevant we challenged the basis on which management had accounted accounting standards, of the accounting basis that should be applied for a sale of engines and a long-term service agreement as a to each long-term aftermarket contract entered into during the year single arrangement which resulted in recognition of profit of and compared this to the accounting basis applied by the Group.
44m despite there being a significant period oftime between concluding these agreements: and Our findings We found that the Group has developed a framework for selecting the accounting bases which is consistent with a balanced interpretation of accounting standards 2014 audit finding: balanced and has applied this consistently.
We found that the disclosure was ample.
168 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Other information Independent Auditors report For the agreements entered into during this year, it was generally Our response We tested the controls designed and applied by the clear which accounting basis should apply.
We identified one Group to provide assurance that the estimates used in assessing instance where the Group had to apply significant judgement in revenue and cost profiles are appropriate and that the resulting concluding that it was appropriate to account for the sale of engines estimated cumulative profit on these contracts is accurately and the long-term service agreement as a single arrangement, reflected in the financial statements: these controls operated over resulting in the recognition of incremental profit of 44m.
Inthis both the inputs and the outputs of the calculations.
We challenged case there was a longer than usual period between conclusion of the the appropriateness of these estimates for each programme and engine sale contract and conclusion of the long-term service assessed whether or not the estimates showed any evidence of agreement.
We found sufficient evidence that the key commercial systematic or unconscious management bias in the context of the terms included in the long-term service agreement had been heightened pressure on and incentives for management to meet established at the time the engine sale contract had been concluded the latest guidance discussed above.
Our challenge was based on and that the intention of both parties had always been to enter our assessment of the historical accuracy of the Groups estimates intoa long-term service agreement on those terms.
Consequently, in previous periods, identification and analysis of changes in wefound the judgements made in the application of the Groups assumptions from prior periods and an assessment of the accounting bases to these particular contracts to be balanced.
consistency of assumptions within programmes.
C T he measurement of revenue and profit in the In particular with regard to the refined approach to revenue  forecasting risk, we assessed the extent to which the new basis Refer to page 114 Key areas of judgement Measurement of better incorporates business risks affecting the Groups customers performance on long-term aftermarket contracts, pages 116 and 117 based on recently emerging trends being experienced by the Group Significant accounting policies Revenue recognition and TotalCare and our own experience.
arrangements and pages 93 and 94 Audit Committee report In terms of future cost estimates, we undertook detailed assessments Financial reporting of the achievability of the Groups plans to reduce life-cycle costs The risk The amount of revenue and profit recognised in a year andan analysis of the impact of these plans on forecast cost profiles onthe sale of engines and aftermarket services is dependent, inter taking account of contingencies and analysis of the impact of known alia, on the assessment of the percentage of completion of long-term technical issues on cost forecasts.
Our analysis considered each aftermarket contracts and the forecast cost profile of each significant airframe that is powered by the Groups engines and arrangement.
As long-term aftermarket contracts can extend over wasbased on our own experience supplemented by discussions with significant periods and the profitability of these arrangements an aircraft valuation specialist engaged by the Group.
We assessed typically assumes significant life-cycle cost improvement over the whether the valuation specialist was objective and suitably qualified.
term of the contracts, the estimated outturn requires significant We also checked the mathematical accuracy of the revenue and profit judgement to be applied in estimating future engine flying hours, for each arrangement and considered the implications ofidentified time on wing and other operating parameters, the pattern of future errors and changes in estimates.
maintenance activity and the costs to be incurred.
The nature of these estimates means that their continual refinement can have an impact Our findings Control weaknesses identified in earlier periods on the profits of the Civil Aerospace business that can be significant in havebeen partially remediated.
The scope and depth of our detailed an individual financial year.
The assessment of the estimated outturn testing and analysis was expanded to take account of the remaining for each arrangement involves detailed calculations using large and weaknesses.
We found no evidence that the refinement to the basis complex databases with a significant level of manual intervention.
for incorporating revenue risk was motivated by the positive impact it has had on profit in the current year.
Overall, our assessment is that In 2012, the Group made changes to the way it takes account of risk the refined basis for incorporating revenue risk is an improvement inmaking these estimates and agreed with the Audit Committee that and the assumptions and resulting estimates including appropriate it would carry out a comprehensive review of how well the revised contingencies resulted in balanced 2014 audit finding: mildly basis reflected actual experience after three years.
In 2015, the Group cautious profit recognition.
We found the disclosure of the impact has refined the basis of taking account of risk in its estimates of future ofthe refined basis for incorporating revenue risk to be ample.
revenue resulting in an increase in estimated future revenue of approximately 2% which had a one-off profit benefit of 189m.
This refinement in basis together with changes in customer flying patterns on some of the older engine programmes resulted in the significance of the risk increasing marginally in the year.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 169 Other information Independent Auditors report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED D R ecoverability of intangible assets certification costs and maintenance revenue which the Group has guaranteed will not participation fees, development expenditure and contractual exceed a specified maximum amount and the cost of required aftermarket rights in the Civil Aerospace business maintenance activity.
Our assessment was that the amount of Refer to page 115 Key sources of estimation uncertainty Forecasts and profit to be recognised depended critically on the Group discount rates, pages 119 and 120 Significant accounting policies engineering departments judgement as to the impact on estimated Certification costs and participation fees, Research and development, future maintenance costs of the wear and tear on the engines based Contractual aftermarket rights and Impairment of non-current assets, on their first few years of operation evidenced by the first strip pages 132 and 133 Note 9 to the financial statements Intangible down and detailed off-wing investigations of engines in the second assets and pages 93 and 94 Audit Committee report Financial half of 2015.
Given the specialist knowledge necessary to make reporting these judgements appropriately, we assessed the capabilities and objectivity of the employees making the judgement and the members The risk The recovery of these assets depends on a combination of management reviewing and approving the judgements.
Finally ofachieving sufficiently profitable business in the future as well to supplement this and to ensure that the matter had received asthe ability of customers to pay amounts due under contracts appropriate attention from the Board, we sought and received oftenover a long period of time.
Assets relating to a particular engine written representations from the Directors that, based on their programme are more prone to the risk of impairment in the early enquiries, they consider that the engineering judgement is years of a programme as the engines market position is established.
appropriate and that, based on that consideration, the recognition In addition, the pricing of business with launch customers makes of the profit of 65m is appropriate.
assets relating to these engines more prone to the risk of impairment.
Our findings Our testing did not identify weaknesses in the In 2015, the Group reduced its estimate of the future maintenance design and operation of controls that would have required us costs on certain Trent 1000 launch engines which in previous toexpand the nature or scope of our planned detailed test work.
periods had been at a level requiring the impairment of the related Wefound that the assumptions and resulting estimates were CARs assets and the recording of a related provision.
This resulted in balanced 2014 audit finding: balanced and that the disclosures the reversal ofpreviously recognised impairments and the related were proportionate 2014 audit finding: proportionate.
We found provision with aprofit of 65m being recognised 2014: impairment noerrors in calculations 2014 audit finding: none.
charge of19m and the capitalisation of 22m that would otherwise With regard to the reversal of impairments on certain Trent1000 have been impaired.
launch engine CARs and a related provision, we found no evidence The significance of the risk has decreased somewhat during the year that this was motivated by the positive impact it has had on profit due to better information on the performance of the Trent 1000 engine in the current year.
We found that the change in estimate from the following the first shop visits and confirmation of the Emirates order prior periods was based on improved information becoming for Trent 900 engines the Trent 900 programme assets had been available in 2015 as the engine programme moved out ofits earliest identified as being at higher risk of impairment in the prior year.
stages which has reduced estimation uncertainty, thatthere was noindication of bias and that the estimate of forecast future cash Our response We tested the controls designed and applied by the flows to be derived from the engines was balanced and supported Group to provide assurance that the assumptions used in preparing the accounting treatments adopted bytheGroup.
We found the the impairment calculations are regularly updated, that changes are disclosure of the impact to be ample.
monitored, scrutinised and approved by appropriate personnel and that the final assumptions used in impairment testing have been E Liabilities arising from sales financing arrangements appropriately approved.
We challenged the appropriateness of the Refer to page 115 Key areas of judgement Customer financing key assumptions in the impairment test including market size, contingent liabilities, page 121 Significant accounting policies market share, pricing, engine and aftermarket unit costs, individual Sales financing support, page 148 Note 18 to the financial programme assumptions, price and cost escalation, discount rate statements Provisions for liabilities and charges and pages93 and exchange rates.
Our challenge was based on our assessment and94 Audit Committee report Financial reporting ofthe historical accuracy of the Groups estimates in previous periods, our understanding of the commercial prospects of key The risk The Group has contingent liabilities in respect of financing engine programmes, identification and analysis of changes in and asset value support provided to customers.
This support assumptions from prior periods and an assessment of the typically takes the form of a guarantee with respect to the value consistency of assumptions across programmes and customers ofan aircraft at a future date, a commitment to buy used aircraft andcomparison of assumptions with publicly available data where ora guarantee ofa customers future payments under an aircraft this was available.
We tested the mathematical accuracy of the financing arrangement.
The Group also provides standby finance impairment calculations.
We considered whether the disclosures lines to certain customers that can be accessed if they fail innote 9 to the financial statements describe the inherent degree of toarrange alternative financing at the time they take delivery subjectivity in the estimates and the potential impact on future ofengines.
Judgement isrequired to assess the likelihood of these periods of revisions to these estimates.
liabilities crystallising, inorder to assess whether a provision shouldbe recognised and, if so, the amount of that provision.
In particular, with regard to the reversal of impairments on Thetotal potential liability is significant and can be affected certainTrent 1000 launch engine CARs and a related provision, bytheassessment of the residual value of the aircraft and the wechallenged the key assumptions underlying the forecast future creditworthiness of the customers.
cash flows to be derived from the engines including: the period andmode of operation of the engines, the time and materials The significance of the risk has not changed during the year.
170 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Other information Independent Auditors report Our response We analysed the terms of guarantees on aircraft corruption, we made written enquiries of and met with the Groups delivered during the year in detail and obtained aircraft values from legal advisers to cross check the results of those enquiries with third and held discussions with aircraft valuation specialists engaged parties and maintained a high level of vigilance to possible indications bythe Group.
We assessed whether the valuer was objective and of significant non-compliance with laws and regulations relating to suitably qualified, had been appropriately instructed and had been bribery and corruption whilst carrying out our other audit procedures.
provided with complete, accurate data on which to base its We discussed the areas of potential or suspected breaches of law, evaluation.
For all contracts on delivered aircraft, we assessed including the ongoing investigations, with the Audit Committee and thecommercial factors relevant to the likelihood of the guarantees the Board as well as the Groups legal advisers and assessed related being called, including the credit ratings and recent financial documentation.
We assessed whether the disclosure in note 23 to the performance of the relevant customers and their fleet plans, and financial statements of the Groups exposure to the financial effects critically assessed the Groups estimate of the required provisions ofpotential or suspected breaches of law or regulation complies with for those liabilities.
We considered movements in aircraft values accounting standards and in particular whether it is the case that the and potential changes in the assessed probability of a liability investigations remain at too early a stage to assess the consequences crystallising since the previous year end and considered whether if any, including in particular the size of any possible fines.
the evidence supported the Groups assessment as to whether or Our findings We found that disclosure to be proportionate not a liability needs to be recognised and the amount of the liability 2014audit finding: proportionate.
recognised or contingent liability disclosed.
We considered whether the related disclosure in note 18 to the financial statements Presentation and explanation of results appropriately explains the potential liability in excess of the amount Refer to pages 22 to 41 Business review, pages 42 to 47 provided for in the financial statements for delivered aircraft and Financialreview, pages 122 to 126 Note 2 to the financial statements highlights the significant but unquantifiable contingent liability Segmental analysis and pages 93 and 94 AuditCommittee report inrespect of aircraft which will be delivered in the future.
Financial reporting Our findings We found that the level of exposure from asset value G T he presentation of underlying profit support had reduced during the year and that the assumptions and The risk In addition to its Adopted IFRS financial statements, the estimates were balanced 2014 audit finding: balanced and that the Group presents an alternative income statement on an underlying disclosures were proportionate 2014 audit finding: proportionate.
The directors believe the underlying income statement reflects better the Groups trading performance during the year.
F B ribery and corruption Thebasis of adjusting between the Adopted IFRS and underlying Refer to page 155 Note 23 to the financial statements income statements and a full reconciliation between them is set  and pages 93 and 94 Audit Committee report out in note 2 to the financial statements on pages 124 and 125.
Financial reporting A significant recurring adjustment between the Adopted IFRS The risk A large part of the Groups business is characterised income statement and the underlying income statement relates bycompetition for individually significant contracts with tothe foreign exchange rates used to translate foreign currency customers, which are often directly or indirectly associated with transactions.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts governments, and the award of individually significant contracts tomanage the cash flow exposures of forecast transactions tosuppliers.
The procurement processes associated with these denominated in foreign currencies but does not generally apply activities are highly susceptible to the risk of corruption.
In addition hedge accounting in its Adopted IFRS income statement.
The the Group operates in a number of territories where the use underlying income statement translates these amounts at the ofcommercial intermediaries is either required by the government achieved foreign exchange rate on forward foreign exchange or is normal practice.
In December 2013, the Group announced that contracts settled in the period, retranslates assets and liabilities it had been informed by the Serious Fraud Office in the UK that it atexchange rates forecast to be achieved from future settlement had commenced a formal investigation into bribery and corruption ofsuch contracts and excludes unrealised gains and losses on such in overseas markets.
The Group is cooperating with the Serious contracts which are included in the Adopted IFRS income statement.
Fraud Office and other agencies, including the US Department The Group has discretion over which forward foreign exchange ofJustice.
Breaches of laws and regulations in this area can lead to contracts are settled in each financial year, which could impact the fines, penalties, criminal prosecution, commercial litigation and achieved rate both for the period and in the future.
In addition, adjustments are made to exclude one-off past-service The significance of the risk has not changed during the year.
costs on post-retirement schemes, restructuring activities that Our response We evaluated and tested the Groups policies, significantly change the shape of the Groups operations and the effect procedures and controls over the selection and renewal of of acquisition accounting including any subsequent impairments intermediaries, contracting arrangements, ongoing management, ofgoodwill or other intangible assets and a number of other items.
payments and responses to suspected breaches of policy.
We sought Alternative performance measures can provide shareholders with to identify and tested payments made to intermediaries during the appropriate additional information if properly used and presented.
year, made enquiries of appropriate personnel and evaluated the tone In such cases, measures such as these can assist shareholders set by the Board and the Executive Leadership Team and the Groups ingaining a more detailed and hence better understanding approach to managing this risk.
Having enquired of management, ofacompanys financial performance and strategy.
However, theAudit Committee and the Board as to whether the Group is in whenimproperly used and presented, these kinds of measures compliance with laws and regulations relating to bribery and Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 171 Other information Independent Auditors report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED might prevent the Annual Report being fair, balanced and Our findings We identified a number of significant items that understandable by hiding the real financial position and results hadaffected profit for the year or the prior year that required orby making the profitability of the reporting entity seem appropriate disclosure in the Annual Report to enable shareholders moreattractive.
to assess the Groups performance.
The key items are: The significance of the risk has not changed during the year.
1 t he 1,315m unrealised fair value losses 2014: 1,156m onderivative contracts: Our response We assessed the appropriateness of the basis for the adjustments between the Adopted IFRS income statement and the 2 the 189m profit 2014: nil arising from refinement in the underlying income statement and the consistency of application of basis of measurement of the risk contingency for forecasts this basis and we recalculated the adjustments with a particular focus offuture revenue to be earned under long-term contracts: on the impact of the foreign exchange rates used to translate foreign 3 t he 140m profit 2014: 60m profit arising from the impact currency amounts in the underlying income statement.
We assessed ofimprovements in lifecycle costs onlong-term contracts: whether or not the selection of forward foreign exchange contracts settled in the year showed any evidence of management bias.
4 t he 107m loss 2014: 90m profit arising from other estimate Wealsoassessed: i the extent to which the prominence given to the changes on long-term contracts: underlying financial information and related commentary in the 5 t he 65m profit 2014: 19m charge and capitalisation of Annual Report compared to the Adopted IFRS financial information 22m that otherwise would have been impaired arising from and related commentary could be misleading: ii whether the Adopted the reversal of the impairment on certain Trent 1000 launch IFRS and underlying financial information are reconciled with engine CARs and the related provision: sufficient prominence given to that reconciliation: iii whether the basis of the underlying financial information is clearly and accurately 6 t he 818m 2014: 793m of research and development charges: described and consistently applied: and iv whether the underlying 7 t he 88m, net of a release of prior year provisions of 30m, financial information is not otherwise misleading in the form and 2014:188m of restructuring charges: context in which it appears in the Annual Report.
8 t he 71m 2014: 54m profit arising from sales of spare Our findings We found no concerns regarding the basis of the engines to joint ventures: underlying financial information or its calculation and no indication of management bias in the settlement of forward foreign exchange 9 t he 75m 2014: 1m impairments of goodwill: contracts.
We consider that there is proportionate disclosure of the 10 t he 142m profit for the year from discontinued operations nature and amounts of the adjustments to allow shareholders in2014: and tounderstand the implications of the two bases on the financial measures being presented 2014 audit finding: proportionate.
11 t he 64m taxcharge arising from derecognition of advance Wefound the overall presentation of the underlying financial corporation tax in2014.
information to be balanced 2014 audit finding: balanced.
We found that the Group had improved thedisclosure of its results H D isclosure of the effect on the trend in profit of items which and the transparency of its commentary on profit trends and that areuneven in frequency or amount ample disclosure of these items had been provided in the Annual The risk The Groups profits are significantly impacted by items Report and financial statements taken asawhole 2014 audit such as cumulative adjustments to profit recognised on long-term finding: proportionate.
contracts, impairments and reversals of impairments of goodwill, In reaching our audit opinion on the financial statements we took CARs and other intangible assets, sale and leasebacks of spare into account the findings that we describe above and those for other, engines to joint ventures, research and development charges, lower risk areas including those included in the output from our reorganisation costs and foreign exchange translation which Dynamic Audit planning tool set out above.
Overall the findings from canbeuneven in frequency and or amount.
If significant either across the whole audit are that the financial statements have been tothe profit for the year or to the trend in profit, appropriate prepared on the basis of appropriate accounting policies, reflect disclosure ofthe effect of these items is necessary in the Annual balanced estimates compared to the mildly cautious estimates made Report and financial statements to provide the information last year resulting in slightly favourable current year profit necessary to enable shareholders to assess the Groups performance.
recognition, and provide proportionate disclosure.
Having assessed The significance of the risk has not changed during the year.
these findings and evaluated uncorrected misstatements in the context of materiality and considered the qualitative aspects of the Our response We undertook detailed analysis of business financial statements as a whole, we have not modified our opinion performance at Group and sector level that sought to identify items onthe financialstatements.
that affect profit and the trend in profit which are uneven in frequency or amount at a much lower level than we would otherwise have done and to assess the transparency of disclosure ofthese items.
We focused on the enhanced financial disclosures included in note 2 to the financial statements and the Business and Financial reviews.
172 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Other information Independent Auditors report SUMMARY AUDIT SCOPE 3 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Revenue Underlying profit before tax Our measure of materiality for the Group financial statements as awhole has reduced in line with the reduction in the Groups profit.
This was set at 66m 2014: 70m and was, as last year, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, normalised to exclude the volatility in reported profit due togains and losses on revaluation of foreign currency and other derivative financial instruments which could otherwise result in an inappropriate materiality level being determined.
This materiality measure represents 4.5% 2014: 4.6% of this benchmark and 41.3% 9 4% 2014: 90% 9 2% 2014: 91% 2014: 34.3% of total reported profit before tax.
We carry out audit 5% 2014: 7% 6 % 2014: 9% procedures to assess the accuracy of the gains and losses on these 1 % 2014: 3% 2 % 2014: 0% derivative financial instruments which this year amounted to a 1.3bn 2014: 1.1bn loss as part of our audit of the Groups A udits for group reporting purposes treasury operations.
Total assets Specified risk-focused We report to the Audit Committee: i all material corrected identified auditprocedures misstatements: ii uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding G roup-level procedures only 3m 2014: 4m for income statement items: and iii other identified misstatements that warrant reporting onqualitative grounds.
We subjected 31 2014: 33 of the Groups reporting components toaudits for group reporting purposes and 11 2014: 14 to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for group reporting 91 % 2014: 83% purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be 7 % 2014: 12% addressed.
This work also provided further audit coverage.
For the 2 % 2014: 5% remaining components, the Group audit team performed analysis atan aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these The Group audit team instructed component auditors, and the components.
The reduction in reporting components subject to audit auditors of the shared service centres, as to the significant areas primarily resulted from the disposal of the Energy business in late2014.
tobecovered, including the relevant risks detailed above, and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved The Group operates shared service centres for the bulk processing thecomponent materialities, which ranged from 0.2m to52m offinancial transactions in Derby UK and Indianapolis US, the 2014: 0.3m to 60m, having regard to themix of size and risk profile outputs of which are included in the financial information of the of the Group across the components.
The work on 21 of the 42 reporting components they service and therefore they are not 2014:29 of 47 components was performed by component auditors separate reporting components.
Each of the service centres is and the rest by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited subject to specified risk-focused audit procedures, predominantly 31 2014:25 component locations in the UK, the US, Germany, China the testing oftransaction processing and review controls.
and Scandinavia, thepurpose of which included an assessment of the Additional audit procedures are performed at certain reporting audit risk and strategy.
Telephone conference meetings were also components toaddress the audit risks not covered by the work held with these component auditors and with those of the higher risk performed over theshared service centres.
components that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 173 Other information Independent Auditors report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 4 OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED inour opinion: BYTHECOMPANIES ACT 2006 IS UNMODIFIED adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent In our opinion: company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has received from branches not visited by us: or been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act the parent company financial statements and the part of the 2006: and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in t he information given in the strategic report and directors report agreement with the accounting records and returns: or for the financial year for which the financial statements are certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
are not made: or Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of we have not received all the information and explanations the audit of the financial statements and from reading the strategic werequire for our audit.
report and the directors report: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and the directors statements, set out on page 57, in relation togoing in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance concern and longer term viability: and with the Companies Act 2006. the part of the corporate governance report on page 67 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 5 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE DISCLOSURES 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
OF PRINCIPAL RISKS We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement the directors viability statement on page 57, concerning the setout on page 105, the directors are responsible for the preparation principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing trueand fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial inoperation over the five years to 31 December 2020: or statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website the disclosures on page 57 and in note 1 of the financial atwww.
This report is made solely statements concerning the use of the going concern basis tothe Companys members as a body and is subject to important ofaccounting.
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014b, which are incorporated into this report as ifset out in full and should be read 6 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OFTHE to provide an understanding ofthe purpose of this report, the work MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TOREPORT wehave undertaken and thebasis of our opinions.
BYEXCEPTION JIMMY DABOO SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR Under ISA UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material Chartered Accountants inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial 15 Canada Square statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise London E14 5GL misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 11 February 2016 we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
174 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Other information Sustainability assurance SUSTAINABILITY ASSURANCE OPINION Bureau Veritas Independent Assurance Statement Based on the assurance work we carried out and the evidence we INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT were presented with, as per the scope of work above, nothing came Bureau Veritas Certification UK Ltd Bureau Veritas has been engaged to our attention to suggest that factual information, performance by Rolls-Royce Holdings plc to provide limited external assurance metrics and data contained within the Annual Report 2015, as far as ofselected sustainability performance indicators for the year ended the verified sustainability performance indicators are concerned, 31December 2015, for inclusion in its Annual Report and Accounts are not: 2015.
The aim of this activity is to provide assurance over the accuracy demonstrative of Rolls-Royce Holdings plcs understanding of the and reliability of the reported information.
material issues that are important to its key stakeholder groups: SCOPE AND METHODOLOGY a fair summary of Rolls-Royce Holdings plcs  The reporting boundary for Rolls-Royce Holdings plc sustainability activities and performance: and performance indicators covers all of its global business operations.
free from significant error or omission.
The reporting period is from the 1 January 2015 to the 31 December 2015.
The scope of the assurance work includes quantitative STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE, IMPARTIALITY AND COMPETENCE performance data only.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc was responsible for the content of the Annual The following sustainability performance indicators were verified: Report 2015 and Bureau Veritas was responsible for the assurance of the selected sustainability performance indicators, as per scope of E nergy use: works mentioned above.
Bureau Veritas is an independent professional Greenhouse gas GHG emissions: services company that specialises in quality, environmental, health, safety and social accountability with over 185years history.
Its Safety total reportable injuries TRI.
assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance We did not verify any other information that may be presented over environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, inRolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015. systems and processes.
The assurance team forthis work does not have any involvement in any other Bureau Veritas projects with Rolls-Royce.
A limited level of assurance was undertaken taking into account Bureau Veritas has implemented aCode of Ethics across the business to therequirements of the International Standard on Assurance ensure that its staff maintains high ethical standards in their day-toEngagements 3000 Assurance Engagements other than Audits day business activities.
orReviews of Historical Financial Information ISAE3000 and, concerning GHG emissions, the requirements of the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 Assurance Flavio Gomes Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements ISAE 3410, Sustainability Services Manager incorporated to BureauVeritas internal protocol for the assurance Bureau Veritas Certification UK Ltd ofsustainability reports.
Theassurance process included interviews with content owners, documentary reviews, checking of the London calculation of datasets and theapplication of appropriate conversion 1 February 2016 factors, and the sampling ofdata for a number of Rolls-Royce Holdings plcs operations.
The integrity and accuracy of site data was tested by sampling databack to source in cases but mostly through the checking ofaggregated data managed centrally.
LIMITATIONS AND EXCLUSIONS This statement should not be relied upon to detect all errors, omissions or misstatements.
The following exclusion applies: Emissions of HFCs were not accounted for in the determination of the organisations overall GHG emissions, therefore, the verification of those emissions was excluded from this assurance exercise.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 175
