Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc Report on the financial statements Our audit approach Overview Our opinion Materiality Overall group materiality: US$250 million based In our opinion: on5%of the consolidated profit before tax and SABMiller plcs consolidated financial statements and company before exceptional items.
financial statements the financial statements give a true and Audit scope The group is structured into five geographic fairview of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs segments andone corporate segment.
Each as at 31March 2015 and of the groups profit and cash flows geographic segment is a consolidation of a for the yearthen ended: number of country-based operating businesses.
the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared We identified three segments Latin America, inaccordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Africa and Corporate, three country-based IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: operating businesses Poland, Czech Republic and Australia and one joint venture MillerCoors the company financial statements have been properly prepared in which, in our view, required an audit of their accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting complete financial information.
Specific procedures Practice: and were also performed on certain of the groups the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with associates Castel, CR Snow and Anadolu Efes.
therequirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Areas of focus Recoverability of the carrying value of consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
theAustralian cash generating unit CGU What we have audited Impairment of the carrying value of the SABMiller plcs financial statements comprise: IndianCGU the consolidated and company balance sheets as at 31 March 2015: Provisions for uncertain tax positions the consolidated income statement and the consolidated The classification of exceptionalitems  income for the year then ended: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then onAuditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
ended: and We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary risksof material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, ofsignificant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
As in all of our audits, and in accordance with ISAs UK & Theseare cross-referenced from the financial statements and are Ireland, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal identified as audited.
controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the thedirectors that represented a risk of material misstatement due preparation of the consolidated financial statements is applicable tofraud.
lawandIFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an AccountingPractice.
opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
102 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recoverability of the carrying value of the Australian CGU Refer to the audit committee review of areasof We assessed the appropriateness of using fair value less cost to dispose FVLCD significant judgement page 71 and goodwill note 10. asthe basis for determining the recoverable amount and verified the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow model used to estimate FVLCD.
As required by applicable accounting standards in relation to goodwill, management conducts an impairment We considered the accuracy of managements forecasting process by comparing review on an annual basis to identify if the recoverable budgeted results to actual performance of the Australian business since acquisition.
amount of the Australian CGU is less than its carrying We assessed the consistency of the assumptions used in managements cash flow value, indicating that the goodwill and associated forecasts with those a market participant would use when valuing the business.
As part assets maybe impaired.
of this process we disaggregated and understood the individual cash flow components Management determines the recoverable amount of the such as developments in the Australian beer category, Carlton and United Breweries Australian CGU based on the use of a discounted cash market share, the drivers of NPR growth projections such as price and mix, costs and flow model involving five-year projections with a terminal the resultant EBITA forecasts.
This included comparing inputs to the businesss own value.
Key assumptions within this model include forecasts based on latest internal board approved budgets and external market data.
net producer revenue NPR and associated estimates We also assessed in greater detail the underlying assumptions within the forecast for the of short-term EBITA growth, long-term growth rate, year ending 31 March 2016 including NPR and associated EBITA, and evaluated the risks and discount rate.
associated with achieving the forecast, which provided data points on which to sensitise managements assumptions over the first five years of the model.
We specifically focused on the Australian CGU given the size of the goodwill balance, and because the We compared the discount and long-term growth rate used with market information assessment of value involves subjective judgements andconfirmed that they all fall within a range of external data.
which are highly sensitive to small changes in We satisfied ourselves that the assumptions used in determining the recoverable assumptions.
Furthermore, the Australian beer market amount are reasonable.
is in decline, with negative growth in the last two years.
This has impacted the groups ability to grow the We also considered the EBITDA multiple implied by managements estimate and business at the rate envisaged within the acquisition confirmed that it falls within a range of independently derived data.
business case and resulted in decreased headroom Our sensitivity analysis highlighted that small movements in the key assumptions between the recoverable amount of the Australian CGU haveasignificant impact on the estimated recoverable amount of the Australian CGU.
and its carrying value compared with the prior year.
Under a number of reasonably possible downside scenarios headroom is removed andan impairment is indicated.
We satisfied ourselves that this was appropriately highlighted within the disclosures in note 10.
Impairment of the carrying value of the Indian CGU Refer to the audit committee review of areasof We assessed the appropriateness of using value in use VIU as the basis for significant judgement page 71 and goodwill note 10. determining the recoverable amount and verified the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow model used to estimate VIU.
As part of the required annual impairment review of goodwill, management has calculated the recoverable We evaluated managements future cash flow forecasts for the Indian business, amount of the Indian CGU.
The recoverable amount including comparing them to the latest internal board approved plans and external data.
was based on the use ofa discounted cash flow model We assessed the reasonableness of the forecasts in the context of historical results, involving five-year projections with a terminal value.
brewing capacity and the challenging regulatory and operating environment.
We also Key assumptions within this model include estimates assessed the appropriateness of the discount rate and long-term growth rate used of short-term growth, brewing capacity, long-term and confirmed that they fell within our range of independently deriveddata.
We satisfied ourselves that managements impairment charge was supported and Managements assessment identified thatthe appropriately disclosed within note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
recoverable amount of the Indian CGU was less than its carrying value due to the continued regulatory and excise challenges of operating in the Indian market.
This resulted in an impairment charge of US$313 million, comprising goodwill US$286 million, brewery assets US$23 million, and intangible assets US$4 million.
We specifically focused on the Indian assessment given the quantum of the impairment charge.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 103 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provisions for uncertain tax positions Refer to the audit committee review of areas of We obtained a detailed understanding of the potential consequences of the groups significant judgement page 72. taxpolicies and the status of the ongoing local tax authority audits.
We assessed key technical tax issues and risks related to business and legislative developments using, Due to the group operating across a number of different where applicable, our local and international specialised tax knowledge.
tax jurisdictions it is subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters during We obtained explanations regarding the tax treatment applied to material transactions and thenormal course of business including transaction arrangements andthe corresponding provisions recorded.
We obtained corroborative related tax matters and transfer pricing arrangements evidence supporting these explanations, including reading communications with local where centralised functions support a numberof tax authorities and copies of tax advice obtained by management from its external different countries.
Where the amount of tax payable or recoverable is We also challenged key assumptions and positions taken, in particular in respect of uncertain, the directors establish provisions based on transactions undertaken in the year or where there have been significant developments their judgement of the probable amount of the liability, with local tax authorities, and satisfied ourselves that relevant provisions were supported.
We focused on these judgements in assessing the quantification and likelihood of the potential exposures and therefore the level of provisions required against them.
In particular we focused on the impact of recentrulings and the status of ongoing local tax authority audits.
The classification of exceptional items Refer to the audit committee review of areas We assessed the appropriateness of the groups accounting policy for exceptional of significant judgement page 72. items by comparing thepolicy with a sample of peer companies.
The group has historically had significant levels We substantiated the nature and quantum of individual items to appropriate of exceptional itemswhich are disclosed separately corroborating evidence.
within the income statement and are excluded from We considered whether the designation of individual items as exceptional was managements reporting of the underlying results of the consistent with the groups accounting policy and treatment in prior years.
Intheyear the group identified US$75 million satisfied that the classification was appropriate.
of net exceptional items within operating profit comprising charges of US$521 million and credits of US$446 million.
The treatment of exceptional items is explained withinthe group accounting policy.
In the year exceptional items primarily relate to costs associated with efficiency programmes, integration and restructuring activity, the profit on sale of the groups interest in TsogoSun and the impairment charge related to the Indian CGU.
We focused on this area because the classification ofexceptional items requires judgement and they are also excluded from the calculation of elements of executive remuneration.
Consistency in the identification and presentation of these items is also important to ensure comparability ofyear on year reporting within the Annual Report.
104 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements How we tailored the audit scope Going concern We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements statement, set out on page 100, in relation to going concern.
We have as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, nothing to report having performed our review.
theaccounting processes and controls, and the industry in which As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that the group operates.
it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going The group is structured in five geographic segments being Latin concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that America, Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe and North America and a Corporate the group and company have adequate resources to remain in operation, segment.
Each geographic segment is a consolidation of a number and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from ofcountry-based operating businesses, regional and central functions the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we and the groups interests in associates and joint ventures within that have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis geographical region.
Based on this, we determined the appropriate is appropriate.
segment and operating businesses to perform work over based on However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, factors such as the size of the balances, the areas of focus as noted these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups and companys above, known or historical accounting issues and the desire to ability to continue as a going concern.
includesome unpredictability in our audit procedures.
We considered the type of work that needed to be performed on these Other required reporting segments and operating businesses by us, as the group engagement team, or by component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC Consistency of other information network firms and other firms operating under our instruction.
Where Companies Act 2006 opinion the work was performed by component auditors, we determined In our opinion, the information given in the strategic report and the the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements segments or operating businesses to be able to conclude whether are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our We identified three segments Latin America, Africa and Corporate opinion: and three country-based operating businesses Poland, Czech Republic and Australia and one joint venture MillerCoors which, information in the Annual Report is: in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information.
materially inconsistent with theinformation in the audited financial Specific procedures were also performed on certain of the groups statements: or associates Castel, CR Snow and Anadolu Efes.
This, together with apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent procedures performed on regional and central functions and at with, our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the the group level, accounted for 78% of revenues and 92% of group course of performing our audit: or profit before tax.
Our group engagement team involvement included site visits, conference calls with our component audit teams, meetings otherwise misleading.
with local management, review of our component auditor work papers, We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
attendance at component audit clearance meetings, and other forms of communication as considered necessary depending on the statement given by the directors on page 100, in accordance the significance of the component and the extent of accounting with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the and audit issues arising.
Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to befair, balanced and understandable and provides the information Materiality necessary for members to assess the groups and companys The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
performance, business model and strategy is materially We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our acquired in the course of performing our audit.
audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the section of the Annual Reporton page 71, as required Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the the financial statements as a whole as follows: auditcommittee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the auditcommittee.
Overall group US$250 million 2014: US$250 million.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materiality How we 5% of the consolidated profit before tax and before determined it exceptional items.
Rationale for We considered this adjusted measure to be the benchmark most relevant in assessing the recurring financial applied performance of the group.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above US$20 million 2014: US$20 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 105 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc continued Adequacy of accounting records and information What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures andexplanations received inthe financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether in our opinion: caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: we have not received all the information and explanations we whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups requirefor our audit: or and the companys circumstances and have been consistently adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, applied and adequately disclosed: or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made branches not visited by us: or by thedirectors: and the company financial statements and the part of the directors the overall presentation of the financial statements.
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Directors remuneration We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable opinion basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in Other Companies Act 2006 reporting theAnnual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the bylaw are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Ifwebecome aware of any apparent material misstatements or Corporate governance statement inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have Richard Hughes BA FCA Senior Statutory Auditor nothing to report having performed our review.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London Responsibilities for the financial 2 June 2015 statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibility statement set outon page 100, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fairview.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown orinto whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by ourprior consent in writing.
