Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: The Sage Group plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys aairs as at 30 September 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year th en ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The Sage Group plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 September 2015 Company balance sheet as at 30 September 2015 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Company accounting policies Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 9 to the financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of cash ows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 17 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Revenue recognition.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 6 components and audit procedures on specic balances for a further 6 components.
The components where we performed full or specic audit procedures accounted for 90% of adjusted profit before tax and 90% of Revenue.
Materiality Overall Group materiality is 16.9m which represents 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items as dened in The application of materiality section of this report Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identied the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest eect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the eorts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
What we concluded to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee The primary audit team assessed whether the revised revenue recognition Following our audit procedures on Revenue recognition policies are appropriate and in accordance with IFRS given the nature of the the underlying fact patterns and Refer to the Audit Committee Report products and services and the manner in which these are provided by the technical analysis supporting page 70 : and Notes 1 and 3.1 of the Group to its customers.
Component audit teams: managements conclusions from Group financial statements.
its review of revenue recognition confirmed that the analysis on which the consideration by the primary The Group has reported revenues of practices across the Group, we audit team was based was consistent with the groups actual business 1,435.5m 2014: 1,353.5m.
We agreed with the amount of and practices: and focussed on the recognition of revenue nature of the resulting adjustments as the timing of revenue recognition performed audit procedures to test the completeness and accuracy of that have been recorded by and its presentation in the income revenue amounts to be adjusted in respect of their location.
management, both in the statement are subject to inherent For significant revenue streams at each full and specic scope audit location: current year and in the prior complexities in the software industry.
We performed walkthroughs of each significant class of revenue Management undertook a review of transactions and assessed the design eectiveness of key controls.
For a We concluded that revenue revenue recognition practices across number of components we tested the operating eectiveness of controls: recognised in the year, and deferred the Group which resulted in changes as at 30 September 2015, is For products and services where the risks and rewards are transferred in the accounting policies for a number materially correct on the basis of our over a period of time, we tested a sample of transactions to ensure that of revenue related items as set out in procedures performed both at group the amount of revenue was accurately calculated based on the state of Note 1. and by component audit teams.
completion of the contract and appropriately recognised: The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 99 Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc continued What we concluded to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Our procedures in relation to inappropriate accounting for complex one-o Revenue recognition arrangements and new products or services were addressed at Group and continued component level through our procedures on the revised revenue We identied 3 specic risks of fraud recognition accounting policies outlined above: and error in respect of improper For bundled products, we tested on a sample basis, that 1 the calculation revenue recognition given the nature of the fair value attributed to each element of the bundle was reasonable, of the Groups products and services and 2 that the allocation of any discount was consistent with the relative as follows: fair value of each element of the bundle: Inappropriate cut-o and deferral We performed other substantive, transactional testing and analytical of revenue: procedures to validate the recognition of revenue throughout the year.
Inappropriate accounting for At certain components, we performed data analysis over full populations complex one-o arrangements of transactions: and and new products services: and For revenue recorded through journal entries outside of normal business Inappropriate allocation of revenue processes, we performed testing to establish whether a service had between the components of been provided or a sale had occurred in the financial year to support bundled products.
Audit procedures on revenue at full We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of and specic scope locations covered the restatement of revenue in the current year and the accounting policies 90% of reported revenue.
for revenue recognition in notes 1 and 3.1 respectively.
We challenged managements assumptions used in its impairment models for We concluded that the goodwill Carrying value of goodwill assessing the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill.
We focused on balance at 30 September 2015 Refer to the Audit Committee Report the appropriateness of CGU identication, methodology applied to estimate is materially correct.
page 70 : and Notes 3.6 and 6.1 of the recoverable values, discount rates, and forecast cash ows.
We tested the methodology applied in the VIU calculation as compared We focussed on this area due the size to the requirements of IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, and the mathematical of the goodwill balance 1,446m 2014: accuracy of managements model: 1,433m and because the directors assessment of value in use of the We obtained an understanding of and assessed the basis for key Groups Cash Generating Units CGUs underlying assumptions for the 2016 budget.
We challenged management involves judgement about the future on cash ow forecasting and the implied growth rates beyond 2016 by performance of the business and the considering evidence available to support these assumptions and their discount rates applied to future cash consistency with findings from other areas of our audit and by performing ow forecasts.
sensitivity analysis: The discount rates and long term growth rates applied within the model In particular, we focused our audit eort were assessed by an EY business valuation specialist, including comparison on the Brazil CGU due to the impairment to economic and industry forecasts where appropriate: and charge of 62.3m recognised in the For Brazil, we performed sensitivity analyses on key assumptions in current year 2014: impairment charge the model to recalculate a range of potential outcomes in relation of 44.3m.
The remaining goodwill to the impairment charge to be recognised in the year.
balance in relation to Brazil is nil at 30 September 2015.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures provided in notes 3.6 and 6.1 in the Group financial statements.
Goodwill was subject to full scope audit procedures by the Primary audit team.
We challenged and applied professional scepticism to the judgments and We concluded that managements Accounting for taxation estimates made by management in relation to tax matters through the judgements in relation to tax Refer to the Audit Committee Report following audit procedures: provisions for uncertain matters page 70 : and Notes 4 and 11 of the and deferred tax asset recognition Group Financial Statements.
We utilised relevant country tax specialists in testing the assumptions and were appropriate.
estimates in relation to the level of provisions recognised for significant tax We focussed on this area as the Group risks and the judgements made in determining the Groups deferred tax assets: has international operations and in the normal course of business the Directors We confirmed that the Groups stated tax position in relation to both tax make judgments and estimates in exposures or deferred tax assets were consistent with the underlying relation to tax issues and exposures, transactions and fact patterns: and the final outcome of which could be We inspected the Groups correspondence with relevant tax authorities, signicantly dierent to these estimates.
to consider the completeness of tax provisions for all relevant risks.
The most significant of these relate We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in Notes 1, 4, to the Unites States, UK and Brazil.
and 11 in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
The risks of material misstatement as set out in the table above are consistent with those reported by The Sage Group plcs previous external auditor with the exception of Archer litigation following the dismissal of the compensation claim against the Group in August 2015 as explained on page 122.
100 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each component within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk prole, the organisation of the group and eectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal Audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 45 reporting components of the Group, we selected 12 components covering entities within UK and Ireland, France, Germany, Spain, North America, South Africa, and Brazil which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 12 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 6 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 6 components specic scope components, we performed audit procedures on specic accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk prole.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 90% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax measure used to calculate materiality and 90% of the Groups Revenue.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 63% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax measure used to calculate materiality and 58% of the Groups Revenue.
The specic scope components contributed 27% of the Groups adjusted PBT measure used to calculate materiality and 32% of the Groups Revenue.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
We instructed a component team to undertake specified procedures over certain cash balances at one location.
The Group audit risk in relation to revenue recognition was subject to audit procedures at each of the full and specic scope locations with revenue.
The Group audit risk in relation to the carrying value of goodwill was subject to audit procedures by the primary audit team on the entire balance.
The Group audit risk in relation to taxation was subject to full scope audit procedures in 5 components and limited scope procedures in 3 components.
Of the remaining 33 components that together represent 10% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax, none are individually greater than 4% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
For 5 components, including 2 in Asia and Australia, we performed review scope procedures.
For the remaining components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review procedures and testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
Adjusted profit before tax Revenue 63% Full scope components 58% Full scope components Specic scope components Specic scope components 10% 10% Other procedures Other procedures 27% 32% Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network rms operating under our instruction.
Of the 6 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 3 of these directly by the primary audit team and 3 by component audit teams.
For the 6 specic scope components, work was performed by component auditors.
We determined the appropriate level of involvement with the component teams to enable us to determine that sucient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
At the start of the audit, a Global Team Planning Event was held in the UK with representatives from all full and specic scope component audit teams in attendance.
In addition, the Group audit team established a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that as a first year audit the Senior Statutory Auditor, or her designate, would visit all full and specic scope audit locations.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken at least once by the primary audit team to the component teams in the UK, France, Germany, Spain, North America, South Africa, and Brazil.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, meeting with local management, aending closing meetings, and reviewing key audit working papers on the Group risk areas.
The primary t eam interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 101 Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc continued Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the eect of identied misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually Starting or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to inuence profit before tax 275.8m basis the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 16.9 million, which is 5% of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items reported Adjusted for non recurring items Adjustments by the Group.
We believe that adjusted profit before tax provides us Goodwill impairment charge of 62.3m with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
Detailed audit procedures are performed on material non-recurring items.
Totals 338.1m [materiality basis] During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and Materiality Materiality of 16.9m 5% of materiality basis the only change in final materiality was to reect the actual reported performance of the Group in the year.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, namely 8.5m, reecting that this is our first year as auditor of The Sage Group plc.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to full and specic scope components was 0.9m to 4.3m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identied misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit dierences in excess of 0.9m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as dierences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sucient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts 2015 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 97, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
102 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Ma@ers on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report is: We have no and Ireland exceptions materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or reporting to report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no Act 2006 exceptions adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit reporting to report.
have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules We are required to review: We have no review exceptions The directors statement in relation to going concern, and longer-term viability, set out on page 93: and requirements to report.
The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: We have nothing and Ireland material to add or the directors conrmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks reporting to draw attention to.
facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identication of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
Alison Duncan Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor, London 2 December 2015 Notes: The maintenance and integrity of The Sage Group plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these ma'ers and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may dier from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 103
