Independent auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members of Saga plc to the members of Saga plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 January 2015 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality of 9.6m which represents approximately 5% of Operating Profit from continuing operations Audit scope The divisions and entities where we performed full audit procedures accounted for 93% of the Groups revenue and 91% of the Groups Operating Profit Areas of focus Valuation of insurance contract liabilities Valuation of goodwill Revenue recognition Discontinued operations and assets held for sale Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and response to that risk The table below shows the risks we identified that have had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
For each risk identified we have documented our response and audit procedures.
Valuation of insurance contract liabilities Refer to the Audit Committee Report, accounting policy note 2.3q and disclosure note 25.
Risk Response For insurance contracts, estimates have to be made both for We understood, assessed and tested the design and the expected ultimate cost of claims reported at the reporting operational effectiveness of key controls over the process date and for the expected ultimate cost of claims incurred but applied by Management in establishing insurance contract not yet reported at the reporting date IBNR.
It can take a liabilities, including controls over the completeness and significant period of time before the ultimate claims cost can accuracy of data used by the internal actuary to project be established with certainty.
Management makes judgement the claims liabilities.
in respect of the trends in bodily injury claims frequency and Supported by our actuarial specialists, we: severity, the propensity for large claims to settle as Periodical Payment Orders PPOs, the Ogden discount rate and other obtained an understanding of the methodology and key regulatory developments.
assumptions applied by Management: challenged the methodology and key assumptions against Management sets reserves at a level that includes a margin our knowledge of the sector and the Groups own claims over the actuarial best estimate to take account of uncertainty experience: that may impact the value of the insurance contract liabilities performed independent actuarial projections on the motor ultimately settled.
classes which account for 89% of the gross insurance Note 18 d Insurance risk provides further detail of these contract liabilities: uncertainties and the process for establishing insurance reconciled the claims data supporting the actuarial contract liabilities.
projections to source systems and, on a sample basis, verified the accurate recording of data against the underlying policy and claims documentation: and assessed the level of reserve margin compared to market practice and prior periods, in the context of areas of uncertainty for which the margin is held.
Saga plc Saga plc 100 AnnA ua nl r nual epo rret a por nd a t and cc accoun ounts ts 2015 100 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Valuation of goodwill Refer to the Audit Committee Report, accounting policy 2.3h and disclosure note 15 a.
Risk Response The goodwill recorded as at 31January 2015 is 1,471.4m Managements impairment assessment of the recorded and is tested for impairment by Management by considering goodwill value was performed as at 1 January 2015.
We have the recoverable amount of the goodwill as described in evaluated and challenged this assessment, specifically: note 15a.
we validated that the cash flows underpinning the In determining the recoverable amount, judgement is applied calculation were consistent with the five year strategic plan by Management in deriving: approved by the Board: we challenged the reasonableness of growth forecasts the forecast cash flows expected to arise from the during the five year plan period, having regard to back approved five year plan and the underlying assumptions testing performed by Management to support the in setting the five year plan: robustness of the forecast process: the pre-tax discount rates that reflect the market we compared the pre-tax discount rate to the Groups assessment of the time value of money and the risks weighted average cost of capital and to discount rates specific to the cash flow estimates: and used by similar UK companies that operate in the financial the growth rate used to extrapolate cash flow projections services and travel industries: beyond the five year plan period.
we compared the long-term growth rates to economic and industry forecasts: and we assessed the adequacy of sensitivity analysis performed by Management, stressing each of the above assumptions in isolation and in combination to best reflect what we considered to be reasonably foreseeable changes in the key assumptions.
Saga plc Saga plc 101 Annual Ann ru ea por l retp and ort a accoun nd accto su 2 n0 ts 15 101 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Independent auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members of Saga plc continued to the members of Saga plc Revenue recognition Refer to accounting policy 2.3 a and disclosure note 3.
Risk Response ISAs UK & Ireland presume there may be pressures or We considered the accounting policies for the revenue incentives on Management to commit fraudulent financial streams in the Financial Services and Travel segments, having reporting through inappropriate revenue recognition to meet regard to the requirements of applicable revenue recognition budgeted performance measures.
standards, being IAS 18 Revenue and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
We have assessed the revenue streams in the Financial Services and Travel segments as being most susceptible to We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the manipulation through the application of inappropriate revenue controls in operation over the Financial Services and Travel recognition policies: revenue recognition and recording processes.
The Financial Services segment revenue consists primarily For the Financial Services segment we: of revenue earned by the insurance intermediary and the for a sample of contracts, re-performed earnings insurance underwriter.
The intermediary revenue from both calculations to validate that insurance revenues were being external underwriters and the Group underwriter is recognised over the policy term: recognised upon commencement of the policy period of inspected a sample of contracts with policyholders and risk, whereas the Group underwriter recognises revenue on underwriters to validate whether any contractual obligations an earned basis over the term of the policy.
Consolidation to provide post-placement services were in place: adjustments are processed to ensure that the overall performed cut-off testing to confirm revenue had been revenue recorded in respect of risks underwritten by the recorded in the correct period: Group is recognised in accordance with the Group policy reviewed the consolidation adjustments posted to eliminate 2.3 a i. the revenue transactions between the Group intermediary Additional considerations are required to be made in and Group underwriter: respect of post-placement services provided by the challenged and corroborated reasons for variances insurance intermediary, such as advocacy or claims from prior periods based on analytical procedures handling, as the provision of such services would require performed: and an element of revenue to be deferred, and recognised tested a sample of manual journals for any indication of as those post-placement obligations are provided.
There is a risk that: For the Travel segment we: revenue recognised by the intermediary is not deferred performed detailed testing of a sample of transactions to where post-placement obligations exist: and confirm that the tour operator revenues and cruise holiday consolidation adjustments required to ensure that the revenues were being recognised in line with the contract overall revenue recorded in respect of risks underwritten terms and applicable accounting policy: by the Group is recognised in accordance with the performed cut-off testing to confirm revenue had been Group policy are not correctly processed.
recorded in the correct period: challenged and corroborated reasons for variances from In the Travel segment, revenue from tour operations prior periods based on analytical procedures performed: is recognised on the passengers date of departure and and for cruise holidays, where the Group operates the cruise tested a sample of manual journals for any indication of ship, revenue is recognised on a per diem basis over inappropriate revenue recognition.
the duration of the cruise.
There is a risk that revenue recognition is accelerated and recognised when holidays are booked or cash in respect of those bookings is received.
Saga plc Saga plc 102 AnnA ua nl r nual epo rret a por nd a t and cc accoun ounts ts 2015 102 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale Refer to the Audit Committee Report, accounting policy 2.3k and disclosure note 35.
Risk Response As at 31 January 2015, the Allied Healthcare business has We considered the appropriateness of Managements been classified as a disposal group in accordance with the classification of the disposal group as held for sale requirements of IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale by considering: and Discontinued Operations.
whether, based on our understanding of the disposal For this classification to be adopted the business must be groups processes and operations, it was in a condition available for sale in its present condition and the sale should to be sold at the year end: and be considered highly probable.
whether there was a formal disposal plan in place at the year end, which had been appropriately considered and This is a qualitative assessment requiring judgement to be approved by the Board.
exercised by Management based on the relevant facts and circumstances extant at 31 January 2015.
We read the independent valuation report in respect of the disposal group that had been obtained by Management, and IFRS 5 also requires businesses classified as held for sale to challenged managements forecasts and analyses supporting be measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair the computation of the fair value less costs to sell of the value less costs to sell, as well as requiring specific disposal group.
presentation and disclosure relating to the disposal group.
The determination of fair value less costs to sell requires the We assessed whether the loss on re-measurement had been application of judgement by Management.
properly applied to reduce the values of the non-current assets within the disposal group as required by IFRS 5.
The re-measurement of the assets and liabilities of the disposal group to fair value less costs to sell has resulted We reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements to in a loss of 209.5m.
confirm that the assets and liabilities held for sale had been presented in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 5.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on our audit and of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the financial statements and in forming our opinion in the Audit Report.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 9.6m, which is approximately 5% of the Groups Operating Profit from continuing operations as this is a key measure used by Management to reflect underlying segment performance.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 50% of materiality, namely 4.8m.
Our objective in adopting this approach is to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences do not exceed our materiality of 9.6m for the financial statements as a whole.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.5m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Saga plc Saga plc 103 Annual Ann ru ea por l retp and ort a accoun nd accto su 2 n0 ts 15 103 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Independent auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members of Saga plc continued to the members of Saga plc Overview of the scope of our audit The Group is structured into four trading segments, being Financial Services, Travel, Healthcare Services, and Media and Central Costs.
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we selected eleven entities which represent the principal entities within the Groups reportable segments and account for 95% of the Groups revenue and 92% of the Groups Operating Profit.
Seven of these were subject to a full audit representing 93% of the Groups revenue and 91% of the Groups Operating Profit, whilst at the remaining four specific audit procedures were performed including full audit of the accounts that were impacted by our assessed risks of material misstatement and the materiality of those entities.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
For the remaining entities within the group, we performed procedures to confirm there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
Audits of these entities are performed at performance materiality levels calculated by reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned, ranging from 4.8m to 1.0m.
The Group audit team reviewed component team working papers and participated in their planning and execution of the audit in respect of the risks identified above.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Saga plc for the year ended 31 January 2015, which comprise: Group the consolidated income statement the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income the consolidated statement of financial position the consolidated statement of changes in equity the consolidated statement of cash flows the related notes to 1 to 39 to the consolidated financial statements Company the parent company balance sheet the related notes to 1 to 8 to the parent company financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Statements set out on page 99, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Saga plc Saga plc 104 AnnA ua nl r nual epo rret a por nd a t and cc accoun ounts ts 2015 104 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 99, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
John Headley Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 29 April 2015 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Saga plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Saga plc Saga plc 105 Annual report and accounts 2015 Annual report and accounts 105 for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Overview Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
