Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Savills plc Report on the financial statements The Group has continued to expand through acquisition across its business lines.
On grounds of materiality, we considered the Our opinion acquisition of Smiths Gore, a UK-based rural property management In our opinion: business and the acquisition of SEB Asset Management, a European fund manager, to be an area of focus for the 2015 audit.
Savills plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view The Group is also subject to a number of legal claims in the normal of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at course of business, often dating back to the height of the property 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit and the Groups market in 2007.
The number of claims, particularly in respect of UK and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: valuations, has continued to decline in 2015. the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Overview IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Materiality the Company financial statements have been properly prepared Overall Group materiality: 6.0m 2014: 5.0m which represents in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 5% of Group underlying profit before tax as defined in Note 2.2 to and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the the financial statements.
Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Audit scope the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards We conducted audit work in the UK, the US and Asia Pacific, the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and across all four of the Groups business lines.
Audits of the complete financial information were performed on What we have audited the businesses in the UK, US, Hong Kong, and Australia.
The financial statements, included within the Report and Accounts We carried out procedures on parts of the business which the Annual Report, comprise: accounted for 83% 2014: 80.5% of Group revenues and 86% 2014: 82.5% of Group underlying profit before tax.
We paid the Consolidated and Company statements of financial position particular attention to the acquisition during the year of Smiths as at 31 December 2015: Gore in the UK Property and facilities management business, the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement and of SEB in the Investment Management Services business.
of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company statements of cash flows for the Areas of focus year then ended: Goodwill impairment assessment particularly for European the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and the businesses.
Company statement of changes in equity for the year then Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to cut-off of ended: and transaction fees in the advisory and investment management the Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary businesses.
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory Accounting for the acquisitions of Smiths Gore and SEB.
Provisions for litigation on valuations.
Recoverability of trade receivables in Asia.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Regulatory compliance obligations.
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company The scope of our audit and our areas of focus financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards of the Companies Act 2006. on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Our audit approach We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the Context risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, Savills plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is structured we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for across four business lines, being Transactional Advisory, Property example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved Consultancy, Property and Facilities Management, and Investment making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently Management Services.
The Group financial statements are a uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of consolidation of reporting units that make up the four business management override of internal controls, including evaluating lines, spread across four geographical regions, UK, US, Europe whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that and Asia Pacific.
represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 73
