Financial Statements Independent Auditor's Report 153 Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Serco Group plc Opinion on financial In our opinion: statements of Serco t he financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Group plc companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups and the Parent companys loss for the year then ended: t he Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: t he Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 'Reduced Disclosure Framework': and t he financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 57.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 'Reduced Disclosure Framework'.
Going concern and the As required by the Listing Rules, we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the Directors assessment appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting, contained within note 2 to the financial of the principal risks statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within that would threaten the strategic report, on page 30. the solvency or We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: liquidity of the Group t he Directors' confirmation on page 16 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: t he disclosures on pages 16 to 29 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: t he Directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements, about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and t he Directors' explanation on page 30 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest of material misstatement effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 154 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Serco Group plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue and profit recognition including The key procedures we have performed are: onerous contract provisions W here we have taken a controls approach, we tested Revenue and profit recognition on contracts requires the operating effectiveness of controls over the contract significant management judgement in the assessment of lifecycle including tendering controls and estimating, current and future financial performance.
Complex areas contract monitoring, billings and approvals, contract in determining the Groups right to recognise revenue and ledger reconciliations and contract forecasting.
profit in the current period include: W e have challenged the right to recognise revenue i nterpretation of contract terms and conditions, including through review of contractual terms and assessed the billing and cash flow arrangements managements judgement regarding the appropriate timing of revenue recognition, including where a c onsideration of onerous contract terms percentage of completion basis was applied.
We obtained contract forecasts and compared the assumptions r ecognition and recoverability of pre contract costs to contract terms and where relevant inspected a ssessment of stage of completion and forecast costs correspondence with parties to the contract.
to complete W e developed an expectation of revenue from contracts The Group is required to make an assessment of the stage of where the contracts stipulate fixed revenue on a regular completion and costs to complete over periods that can extend basis or by using external volume data and applying the up to 15 years into the future in order to estimate the onerous rates per unit as per the contract to test the revenue contract provisions.
The prediction of future events contains recognised by the Group.
inherent risk and a high degree of management judgement.
W here the revenue is not based on a fixed amount or fixed At 31 December 2014, the Group recognised provisions for a rates per unit, we have performed test of details by testing number of contracts that became onerous of 447.1m to cover the underlying work order change orders for the contracts the excess of unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations and the actual expenses incurred to provide those services.
under the contracts over the economic benefits expected to W e challenged management's judgements of specific be received over the remaining term of such contracts.
Such contract forecasts and historic operational costs comparing provisions arose predominantly where contractual volume and contract forecasts to past performance versus contractual or price risk rest with the Group and forecast revenues are targets to assess whether contracts are deemed to largely fixed.
be onerous and reviewed provisions for anticipated losses.
This has included a review and challenge of During 2015, the Group has continued to assess both those evidence produced by third party experts, where used by contracts for which onerous contract provisions were made management in determining certain future contract costs at 31 December 2014, and other contracts which may display and the models for these onerous contracts.
similar characteristics and potential onerous outcomes.
The total onerous contract provision at 31 December 2015 was F or contracts where onerous contract provisions have 302.1m following utilisation of 116.8m, new provisions of been recognised or released during the year, we have 89.1m, release of 93.0m of provisions no longer required assessed whether the provisions or releases were a and net movement of 7.6m relating to foreign exchange, change of estimate arising from new circumstances in the unwinding of discount, and reclassifications.
year or whether they represented the correction of a prior period error.
Refer to notes 2 and 3 for the Groups accounting policy and critical accounting judgements over revenue and profit W e have verified capitalised contract costs to underlying recognition and refer to note 30 for detailed disclosures of documentation and assessed the accounting treatment onerous contract provisions recognised by the Group as at adopted by management.
Financial Statements Independent Auditor's Report 155 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of goodwill The key procedures we performed are: The Group has previously recognised goodwill of 541.5m W e have challenged the results of managements strategy allocated to its various cash generating units CGUs.
In review and its implications on the carrying value of goodwill the current year, the Group has recognised an impairment for certain CGUs through our review of the forecasts.
of 87.5m of goodwill as a result of worsening cash flows experienced by the Americas division compared to the W e challenged managements assumptions within the cash 2014 forecasts.
flow forecasts used in the value in use calculations for CGUs including revenue, growth, discount rates and economic The Group is required to assess goodwill for impairment assumptions such as long-term growth rates by reference on an annual basis.
In making that assessment, management to independent data where possible and by performing estimate the recoverable amounts for the CGU to which tests on historical forecasting accuracy.
This requires management W e have challenged the discount rate applied to the judgement to make assumptions in respect of forecast separate CGUs by utilising valuation experts, the operating cash flows and discount rates.
In so doing prevailing Group cost of capital at the year end and our consideration will be given to anticipated revenue growth, understanding of the future prospects of the Group.
cash conversion and wider economic inputs together with any changes in the Group's strategy.
W e have tested the consistency of forecasts used by management for assessment of contracts for onerous Further details on the impairment can be found at notes 11 contract provisions, recoverability of deferred tax assets and 20 and notes 2 and 3 for the Groups accounting policy and going concern.
and critical judgements over impairment of goodwill.
W e have challenged the sensitivity of changes to the various inputs into the impairment model by reperformance of the calculations using different levels of discount rates and other inputs.
W e have recalculated the goodwill balance to determine whether changes to the business in 2015 have been appropriately reflected.
W e also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of its goodwill impairment testing and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in such assumptions.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 156 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Serco Group plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Pension commitments The key procedures we performed are: The Group has a net pension related asset of 115.6m as at W e evaluated the appropriateness of the principal actuarial 31December 2015, comprising 1.308.9m assets and 1,196.4m assumptions used in the calculation of the Groups pension liabilities adjusted by 1.9m for franchise arrangements and commitments, using our own actuarial experts, and by 1.2m for the members' share of scheme deficits.
The net benchmarking certain assumptions to independent data.
asset value is based on actuarial assumptions used in the A s part of our work we reviewed advice received by the measurement of the Groups pension commitments which Group from its external actuaries and used our actuaries involves judgements in relation to mortality, price inflation, to challenge the advice in relation to the Groups discount rates, and rate of pension and salary increases, unconditional right of refund and the recoverability around which there are inherent uncertainties.
Judgement of pension surplus amounts.
is also exercised in determining whether a pension surplus W e challenged contract specific pension should be recognised as an asset, and the extent of the commitments recorded including those arising Groups pension liability in respect of franchise and other from franchise arrangements.
W e performed substantive audit procedures on the Please refer to note 34 which details the valuation of the data provided by management to their actuaries, to pension assets and the actuarial assumptions used in determine whether it is accurate and complete.
measuring the Group's pension commitments.
The Groups W e have substantively tested pension contributions to accounting policy and critical judgement disclosures in relation and from the pension scheme to determine whether they to recognition of pension assets and liabilities are set out in reflect payroll deductions and pension payments.
In the current year, we no longer present going concern and covenant compliance for which there Changes in risk was an emphasis of matter and presentation of exceptional items as risks.
The risk related to going concern and covenant compliance was removed following the successful completion of the Groups rights issue and reduction in the Groups net debt together with the conclusion of the Groups strategy review.
The risk with respect to exceptional items was removed as exceptional items are significantly lower and involve a lower level of judgement in the current year.
As a result the impact on our audit strategy and allocation of audit resource has also changed.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 105.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it Our application probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed of materiality or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 9m 2014: 20m.
In the prior year, the materiality of 20m was around 3% of adjusted pre-tax loss.
Pre-tax loss was based on adding back net exceptional costs of 661.5m: this base was used to reflect the particular circumstances of 2014, where the exceptional costs were one-off and did not represent the underlying performance of the business.
As part of the Rights Issue in April 2015, the Company provided Trading Profit guidance to the market for the year-ended 31 December 2015 of 90m.
Trading Profit is a key measure of the business.
The requirements of the London Stock Exchange are that any deviation of 10% from their estimate 9m would necessitate an announcement to the market.
As such we considered 9m to be the most important measure for the shareholders and the best measure on which to base our materiality.
Our selected materiality is less than 1% of total assets of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.18m 2014: 0.4m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Financial Statements Independent Auditor's Report 157 An overview of the Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, scope of our audit including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at seven 2014: seven components, all of which were subject to a full scope audit.
The seven components, and the levels of materiality applicable to each component, are described below: Component 2015 Materiality 2014 Materiality Component auditor used million million UK Central Government CG No 4.20 4.60 UK & Europe Local & Regional Government LRG No 4.20 3.90 Asia Pacific AsPac Yes 3.85 3.90 Middle East ME Yes 3.50 3.50 Serco Global Services SGS Yes 3.85 3.90 Americas Yes 3.85 3.90 Corporate No 3.50 3.50 The scope of work over the components above provided us with 100% coverage over the Groups revenue and net assets.
The CG and LRG divisions were audited by the Group audit team.
The ME division has been audited using a component audit team under instructions from the Group team: in the prior year this was audited directly by the Group team.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits to the component audit teams, visiting America Americas component, Australia AsPac component and the United Arab Emirates ME component during the current year audit.
During the year we did not visit India SGS component however we included the component audit team in our team briefing, discussed their risk assessment, and reviewed documentation of the findings from their work.
In addition to the components described above, we have directed the performance of the audit procedures at the Groups shared service centre in India, including visiting the audit team during the current year audit.
At the Parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Included within the components above are some joint ventures: the joint venture auditors report to the relevant component teams and we review the work of the component teams in respect of their supervision of the joint venture auditors.
In our opinion: Opinion on other matters prescribed t he part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in by the Companies accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Act 2006 t he information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 158 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent Auditor's Report to the members of Serco Group plc continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequacy of explanations received and accounting we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or records a dequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or t he Parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Statement We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our Our duty to read other opinion, information in the annual report is: information in the Annual Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or a pparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for Respective responsibilities the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
of Directors and auditor Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Scope of the audit of the sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material financial statements misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew J. Kelly FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 25 February 2016
