GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SENIOR PLC We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF SENIOR PLC accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, In our opinion: because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue asa going concern.
Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups and the Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: INDEPENDENCE We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance as adopted by the European Union: with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those Framework: and that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group The risks are consistent with the risks identified in the prior year.
We have financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
also focused our tax risk solely on the provision for uncertain matters The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the rather than also considering the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent The Audit Committee has requested that while not currently required Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we include in and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related our report any significant key observations in respect of these assessed Notes 1 to 55.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied risks of material misstatement.
in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting The description of risks opposite should be read in conjunction with the framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 50. company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
andwe do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of Weuse materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and accounting contained within Note 2 to the financial statements and the inevaluating the results of our work.
Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained We determined materiality for the Group to be 6.1m 2014: 6.8m, within the strategic report on page 25. which is 7.3% 2014: 7.4% of profit before tax excluding goodwill We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: impairment and impairment of assets held for sale.
We have determined profit before tax excluding exceptional and non-recurring items as our the Directors confirmation on page 25 that they have carried out a benchmark for determining materiality on the basis that profit before tax robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including is a key performance indicator used by the market and is comparable those that would threaten its business model, future performance, with the Groups peers.
solvency or liquidity: Profit before tax has been adjusted to exclude the impact of the the disclosures on pages 30 and 31 describe those risks and explain impairment of goodwill relating to GA CGU and the impairment of how they are being managed or mitigated: assets held for sale relating to the Composites business in the current the Directors statement on page 25 about whether they considered year.
In the prior year profit before tax excluded the impact of an it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in impairment of goodwill relating to the Composites CGU and the write preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties down of L85 inventory.
These items have been excluded in our tothe Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least determination of materiality as they are considered by management 12months from the date of approval of the financial statements: tobe exceptional and non-recurring in nature and not reflective of theGroups underlying performance.
the Directors explanation on page 25 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and We agreed with the Audit Committee and reported to the Committee why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement allaudit differences in excess of 120,000 2014: 136,000, as well as as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
presentation of the financial statements.
70 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT KEY RISK DESCRIPTION RESPONDED TO THE RISK OBSERVATIONS GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT The Group has a material goodwill balance with a carrying We challenged managements key assumptions used in Based on our value of 284.5m which has arisen through past the impairment model for goodwill focussing on those procedures we acquisitions.
In the current year an impairment charge CGUs with lower headroom and operating in challenging agreed with the of18.8m was recognised in respect of the GA cash markets by, but not limited to: Directors that the generating unit CGU as a result of adverse market goodwill allocated to considering the cash flow projections through circumstances brought on by the slowing GDP growth GA should be fully assessing the accuracy of historical budgeting process ratein China impacted by commodity prices.
impaired and that no by comparing them with historically achieved results other goodwill On an annual basis the Directors assess the valuation of and benchmarking the consistency of the cash flow impairment should goodwill which relies on key assumptions and judgements projections with industry data and trends: be recognised as at made by them concerning the estimated value of future engaging our internal valuation specialists to review the 31 December 2015. cash flows, associated discount rates, and growth rates inputs used to determine the discount rates by based on their view of future business prospects.
comparing them against available external market data: benchmarking the perpetuity rates against industry and The extent of the judgement involved presents the risk that GDP growth rates: and the carrying value has not been adjusted appropriately for underperforming components or components that have been reviewing their adopted sensitivities to assess whether impacted by adverse market and or trading circumstances.
it reflects a reasonable possible change.
Further details are disclosed in Note 2, where goodwill isdisclosed as a critical judgement and Note 13 of the financial statements.
TAX PROVISIONS As the Group operates in a number of different tax We assessed the tax provisions in conjunction with our Based on our jurisdictions, judgement is required over the levels of tax internal tax experts.
Our assessment included a review procedures we provisions held at year end principally in the US and UK ofprior year open computations and the Groups transfer concur that the which are the Groups most significant trading countries.
pricing and financing arrangements, correspondence with overall provision As set out in Note 21 to the financial statements the Group tax authorities and consideration of the general tax recognised by is carrying a tax provision of 17.7m.
environment and attitude of tax authorities.
management is appropriate given The increase of 1.3m in the current year reflects the increased We considered whether the additional provisions thetax risks faced uncertainty as a result of the OECDs BEPS project.
recognised during the year are appropriate in light of by the Group.
developments in the OECDs BEPS project.
INVENTORY NET REALISABLE VALUE AND PROVISION FOR OBSOLESCENCE The Group held an inventory balance at the year end We have tested a sample of inventory items at significant Based on our of 126.9m, as disclosed in Note 17 which relates to the components to assess the cost basis and net realisable procedures, no Aerospace and Flexonics businesses.
It is a material value of inventory.
issues were balance for the Group which requires management identified which We compared the inventory excess and obsolescence judgement in determining an appropriate costing basis raised concerns over provision to the Groups policy and challenged and assessing if this is lower than the net realisable value the valuation of managements judgement of the adequacy of this by of the inventory on hand at year end.
performing a review of the overall level of provisions on an There are also judgements required in determining aggregate and by unit basis as well as understanding the inventory excess and obsolescence provisions as these levels of demand for significant items.
We investigated are based on forecast inventory usage and assessing if manual adjustments made to the mechanical application the provision level is adequate.
of the inventory obsolescence provisioning policy, and assessed whether they were valid and the appropriateness of the final excess and obsolescence provision.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 71 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SENIOR PLC CONTINUED HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT KEY RISK DESCRIPTION RESPONDED TO THE RISK OBSERVATIONS ACQUISITION ACCOUNTING Group management exercised judgement in determining We evaluated and tested the acquisition accounting for Based on our testing, their provisional valuation of the intangible assets and both acquisitions, which included using valuation experts the key judgements goodwill of two acquisitions made during the year.
in the consideration of the recognition and valuation of applied by management in Lymington Precision Engineering LPE, a UK based intangible assets.
company, was acquired on 31 March 2015 for net identifying and Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to: recognising consideration of 43.6m.
Management recognised agreeing the cash flow projections to supporting audit intangible assets valued at 27.9m and goodwill of 17.1m.
intangible assets evidence on a sample basis: and assessing the andrecognition On 17 December 2015 the Group acquired Steico Industries appropriateness of the valuation methodology and Steico, based in the United States, for net consideration ofgoodwill for discount rate applied by consulting with our internal acquisitions made 60.3m.
valuations experts who performed benchmarking against during the year were At the acquisition date management recognised intangible the Groups competitors and challenged the sources of its appropriate.
assets valued at 28.4m and goodwill of 21.2m.
inputs along with assessing the fair value attributed to the deferred contingent consideration.
The judgements made in recognising the intangible assets could have a material impact on the financial statements and as such, this is a key audit risk.
Further details of the above noted acquisitions can be found at Note 31 and Note 2 where fair value of intangible assets acquired on acquisition is disclosed as acritical judgement of the financial statements.
Materiality At the Parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit Group materiality 6.1m or audit of specified account balances.
84.4m 7.3% 6.1m Audit coverage by site Audit coverage by site Component materiality range 2.4m to 3.1m as a proportion of FY15 as a proportion of FY15 profit revenue before tax Reporting threshold 0.1m PBT excluding goodwill impairment and impairment of assets held for sale AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group audit was scoped based on our understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
We have considered components on the basis of their contribution to Group sales and profitability, as well as those that require local statutory audits in their jurisdiction.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit Full scope audit procedures 80% Full scope audit procedures 81% scope primarily on the audit work at 24 locations.
22 of these were Specified audit procedures 9% Specified audit procedures 17% subject to a full scope or statutory audit, whilst the remaining two were Reviewed at Group level 11% Reviewed at Group level 2% subject to an audit of specified audit procedures where the extent of ourtesting was based on our assessment of the risks of material The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit thoselocations.
team visits the Groups components on a rotation basis.
In the current These 24 locations represent the principal business units and account year we visited a total of 12 locations.
for 89% 2014: 90% of the Groups revenue and 98% 2014: 92% of In years when we do not visit a significant component we include the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an thecomponent audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
Our audit work at the 24 locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 2.4m to 3.1m 2014: 2.0m to 3.4m.
72 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Weconfirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors ormisleading statements.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements inaccordance with applicable legal requirements.
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial anditsenvironment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not statements in accordance with applicable law and International identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with Directors Report.
International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems BY EXCEPTION include our dedicated professional standards review team and Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records independent partner reviews.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, inour opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. we have not received all the information and explanations we require Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the for our audit: or Companys members those matters we are required to state to them adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone from branches not visited by us: or other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that Directors remuneration the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and isnot in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting nothing to report arising from these matters.
estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonCorporate Governance Statement financial information in the annual report to identify material Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of nothing to report arising from our review.
If we become aware of any apparent material Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are ourreport.
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Mark Mullins FCA Senior statutory auditor materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP statements: or Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent London, United Kingdom with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 26 February 2016 performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 73
