Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Determination of the provision for impairment of trade receivables in Severn Trent Water Limited 122.5 million note4 A proportion of Severn Trent Water Limiteds customers do not We reviewed and challenged the information used to determine or cannot pay their bills which results in the need for provisions the bad debt provision by considering cash collection performance to be made for non payment of the customer balance.
There against historical trends and the level of bad debt charges over time.
Specically, we reviewed the actual history of slow paying is significant judgement involved in calculating the bad debt provision, particularly regarding the estimation of future cash customers in Severn Trent Water Limited in the period using data collection.
analytics to understand the collection of previously aged debtors and to recompute the ageing analysis.
We also tested the key Provisions are made against Severn Trent Water Limiteds trade controls relating to the production of the data used in the bad debt receivables based on historical experience of levels of recovery model and agreed a sample of this data back to its source, being from accounts in particular ageing categories.
Revenue recognition risk in relation to the estimation of unbilled revenue in Severn Trent Water Limited 192.5 million note 4 For water and waste water customers with water meters, the We challenged the validity of managements estimate of current amount recognised depends upon the volume supplied, including year accrued revenue by comparing actual amounts billed to an estimate of the sales value of units supplied between the date the estimate made in the prior year to determine the accuracy of of the last meter reading and the year end.
This is a key judgement the estimation techniques.
In addition, we used data analytics to because the estimated usage is based upon historical data and recompute the total level of unbilled revenue for the current year assumptions around consumption patterns.
in Severn Trent Water Limited as well as testing the operating effectiveness of controls relating to the key data inputs to the model and agreed a sample of this data back to its source.
Determining the classication of costs between operating expenditure and capital expenditure in Severn Trent Water Limited note7 Severn Trent Water Limited has a substantial capital programme We assessed the groups capitalisation policy to determine xed asset additions in the year 423.8 million which has been compliance with relevant accounting standards and tested the agreed with Ofwat and therefore incurs significant expenditure operating effectiveness of controls over the application of the in relation to the development and maintenance of both policy to expenditure incurred on projects within the groups infrastructure and non infrastructure assets.
Expenditure in capital programme during the year.
This includes consideration of relation to increasing the capacity or enhancing the network is the allocation of costs between capital and operating expenditure.
Expenditure incurred in maintaining In addition, for a sample of capital projects, we assessed the the operating capability of the network is expensed in the year application of the capitalisation policy to the costs incurred by 134.8 million in which it is incurred.
Capital projects often agreement to third party invoices and obtained explanations and contain a combination of enhancement and maintenance activity further support for any significant changes in capital expenditure which are not distinct and therefore the allocation of costs between from budget.
capital and operating expenditure is inherently judgemental.
Determining the amount of the groups retirement benefit obligations 468.9 million deficit note 28 This is a key area of judgement because the process is complex With support from the pension specialists within our audit team, and requires management after taking advice from their actuarial we challenged the assumptions used in the calculation of the advisers to make a number of assumptions concerning long term pension scheme deficit as detailed in note 28, specically regarding interest rates, ination, salary and pension increases, investment the discount rate, ination rate and mortality assumptions with returns and longevity of current and future pensioners.
reference to comparable market and other third party data.
Determination of current and deferred tax balances 32.7million note 13 Assessing the outcome of uncertain tax positions requires With support from the tax specialists within our audit team, we judgements to be made regarding the result of negotiations with, considered the likely outcomes of uncertain tax positions and and enquiries from, tax authorities in a number of jurisdictions.
reviewed correspondence with the relevant tax authorities to assess the appropriateness of the tax balances that have been recorded in the balance sheet.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 63.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modied with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 94 Independent auditors report to the members ofSevernTrentPlc continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 18 million 2014: 18 million, which is approximately 6.0% 2014: approximately 7.0% of pre-tax profit before exceptional items and other adjustments including the fair value movements in financial instruments.
As in 2014, these items are excluded to focus on the groups underlying trading performance, consistent with the groups internal and external reporting.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of 750,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure judgements that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, ofour audit including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope on the consolidation at the parent company level and the groups two business segments being Severn Trent Water Limited and Severn Trent Services.
Severn Trent Water Limited was subject to a full statutory audit using component materiality of 15 million and it accounts for over 90% 2014: over 90% of the groups net operating assets and operating profit.
The extent of our testing on Severn Trent Services was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and the materiality of the segments global business operations, principally in the UK and the US.
The materiality of each component being lower than that of the group, with the highest materiality 12 million applied to the US component.
At the parent company level, we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The group audit team follows a programme of planned visits to the auditors of each of the significant components of the group not audited by the group team.
This primarily relates to the Severn Trent Services audit team in the US.
The Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the group team visits the Severn Trent Services audit team in the US at least once every two years.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we will include the component audit team in our team brieng, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion: prescribed by the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in CompaniesAct 2006 accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which wearerequired to reportbyexception Adequacy of explanations Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: received and accounting we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or records adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95 Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement Statement relating to the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in information in the our opinion, information in the annual report is: AnnualReport materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identied any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible of directors and auditor for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Carl D Hughes MA FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 21 May 2015 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 96 Consolidated income statement For the year ended 31 March 2015 2015 2014 Restated Notes m m Turnover 5, 6 1,801.3 1,756.7 Operating costs before exceptional items 7 1,261.0 1,232.9 Exceptional operating costs 8 18.7 15.2 Total operating costs 7 1,279.7 1,248.1 profit before interest, tax and exceptional items 5 540.3 523.8 Exceptional items before interest and tax 8 18.7 15.2 profit before interest and tax 521.6 508.6 Finance income 10 81.7 80.8 Finance costs 11 321.7 328.7 Net finance costs 240.0 247.9 Losses gains on financial instruments 12 133.5 58.0 Share of results of associates and joint ventures 0.1 0.2 profit before tax, losses gains on financial instruments and exceptional items 300.4 276.1 Exceptional items before tax 8 18.7 15.2 Losses gains on financial instruments 12 133.5 58.0 profit on ordinary activities before taxation 148.2 318.9 Current tax excluding exceptional credit 13 37.8 55.8 Deferred tax excluding exceptional credit 13 5.1 21.5 Exceptional tax credit 13 230.2 Total taxation on profit on ordinary activities 13 32.7 152.9 profit for the year from continuing operations 115.5 471.8 profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 38 4.7 36.9 profit for the year 120.2 434.9 Attributable to: Owners of the company 119.1 433.8 Non-controlling interests 1.1 1.1 120.2 434.9 Earnings per share pence From continuing operations Basic 15 48.3 198.5 Diluted 15 48.1 197.6 From continuing and discontinued operations Basic 15 49.9 182.1 Diluted 15 49.6 181.3
