Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc Opinion on the financial statements of Shire plc We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis In our opinion the consolidated financial statements of Shire plc of accounting and we did not identify any such material and subsidiaries together the Group : uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the give a true and fair view of the state of Shire plc and Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
subsidiaries affairs together the Group as at December 31, 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils have been properly prepared in accordance with accounting Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are principles generally accepted in the United States of America: independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical and responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit Companies Jersey Law 1991. services referred to in those standards.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated balance sheet, Our assessment of risks of material misstatement the consolidated statement of income, the consolidated statement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the in equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows and the related allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the Notes 1 to 31.
The financial reporting framework that has been engagement team.
applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and accounting principles generally accepted in the The risks identified relate to: United States of America.
pricing and market assumptions for acquired products that Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal affect the accounting for acquisition of NPS Pharmaceuticals Inc risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group NPS : We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the the potential for invalid revenue to be recognized from sales to appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting and the wholesalers in excess of market demand: and Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group the estimation of rebates against revenue as a result of contained within the Corporate Governance Report on page 64. contractual and regulatory requirements in the United States.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: The description of risks below should be read in conjunction with the Directors confirmation on page 105 that they have carried the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, discussed on pages 70 and 71.
Our audit procedures relating to including those that would threaten its business model, future these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the performance, solvency or liquidity: financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial the disclosures on pages 36-47 that describe those risks and statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks explain how they are being managed or mitigated: described below, and we do not express an opinion on these the Directors statement in the Corporate Governance report individual matters.
about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the goingconcern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months fromthe date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 69 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period theyhave done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
106 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Accounting for the acquisition of NPS Pharmaceuticals Inc NPS The Directors determination of the purchase price allocation for the acquisition In order to assess the allocation of the purchase price to acquired NPS assets of NPS is included at Note 4, and the critical accounting policy and estimate in and liabilities we have the tested the Groups relevant controls and performed relation to acquired intangible assets is set out at Note 3. testing including the following specific procedures: We identified a risk that the allocation of purchase price to acquired assets We assessed the competence of managements market expert, and and liabilities in relation to the NPS acquisition, in particular the valuation of undertook a series of interviews with them to understand their work: the intangible assets related to the currently marketed products GATTEX and We obtained the revenue forecast model prepared by managements NATPARA, are not appropriate.
market expert including the key assumptions for price rises, prevalence rate and severity mix: The underlying judgments made in arriving at fair value for GATTEX and NATPARA include key assumptions for pricing, disease prevalence rate and We inspected and challenged the underlying studies on which the disease severity over the life cycle of these intangible assets.
assessment of the prevalence rate was based: and We obtained an understanding of the primary information and opinions This has been highlighted as a significant risk due to its size consideration of obtained from key opinion leaders for example medical specialists in $5,220million, with intangible assets of $4,993million recognized and the orderto challenge the severity mix and pricing assumptions.
In addition, we independently tested Managements controls in this area andincreased the level of testing associated by re-performing the key controlactivities.
Revenue recognition A description of the key accounting policy for revenue recognition is included at We have considered the Groups process for judgments in this area and overall Note 2. revenue recognition policy.
In particular, in relation to this risk, we have: The Group sells the majority of its products to wholesalers who, in turn, supply performed trend analysis over stocking levels measured as gross revenues retail, hospitals and other pharmacies.
less demand as compared to prior periods: examined and assessed wholesaler compliance with certain stocking We identified a risk relating to overstatement of US revenue for certain thresholds per agreed long-term contracts: Neuroscience, GI and IM products due to the potential for Shire to use their commercial position to push sales to wholesalers which significantly exceeds tested managements monitoring process over stocking levels: and market demand.
audited the level of returns following the period end and compared to previous periods.
We have highlighted this as a risk given the alleged incidences of invalid sales made by other companies in this market in the past two years.
In addition, we independently tested managements controls in this area for operating effectiveness.
US rebates and sales deductions A description of the key accounting policy for sales deductions is included at We have considered the Groups processes for making judgments in this area Note 2 d. and performed the following procedures: The Directors are required to make certain judgments in respect of the level of considered the appropriateness of the process and tested the controls rebates and other sales deductions that will be realised against the Groups sales.
adopted by management in determining the accounting for rebates and other sales deductions: The largest of these judgments relate to rebates for Medicaid and Managed Care undertaken an analysis of the historical accuracy of judgments by programs, for which the Group held accrued rebates as at 31 December 2015 reference to actual rebates paid in prior periods: of$982million 2014: $882million in aggregate.
The risk is primarily focussed onthe Neuroscience, GI and IM products.
confirmed rebate levels accrued during the year against subsequentpayments: The key elements of the judgments relating to Medicaid and Managed Care analysed and recalculated components of the year end liability based rebates include: oncontracted and statutory rebate rates: and the proportion of the inventory pipeline that will attract specific rebates: and challenged the key elements of judgments that were made in the the future value of rebate per unit expected to be applicable.
periodinlight of externally verifiable data, such as pipeline levels, and We identified a risk that these judgments are not appropriate and, as a result, industrypractice.
rebate liabilities and sales deductions are recorded at an incorrect level.
We also evaluated the presentation and disclosure of the transactions within There is a significant track record of actual rebate levels which informs our theGroup financial statements.
assessment of the level of risk of material misstatement.
Nevertheless due to manual nature and extent of the accounting process in this area it forms a significant part of our audit effort and requires a notable level of resource within the audit engagement.
Shire Annual Report 2015 107 Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc continued The prior year reported risk related to the ViroPharma acquisition The locations were also selected to provide an appropriate basis has not been separately reported on in the current year given the for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material accounting for the acquisition completed in 2014 and there have misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the individual been no significant changes in 2015.
The risk related to complex locations was performed at component materiality levels which tax judgments is not presented this year as we concluded on the ranged from $30million to $70million, which were determined by most significant tax judgment, related to the tax treatment of the reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the $1.6billion received from AbbVie Inc, in the prior year and there relative scale of the business concerned.
have been no developments in relation to the treatment.
At Group level we also audited the consolidation process and Our application of materiality carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic aggregated financial information of the remaining components not decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be subject to full scope audit procedures.
We use materiality both in planning the The Group audit team directly undertakes the work performed scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
across all of the full scope components and follows a program We determined materiality for the Group to be $100million 2014: ofplanned site visits that is designed to ensure that the Senior $70million, which is below 5% 2014: 5% of adjusted pre-tax Statutory Auditor spends appropriate time in each of the full scope profit, and below 2% 2014: 2% of equity.
Pre-tax profit has been locations throughout the year.
In addition to this the Group audit adjusted by removing the impact of one off items such as team will visit other locations not in full scope on a rotational basis.
impairments of intangible assets see Note 13.
In the prior year Opinion on other matters prescribed by our engagement letter wealso excluded from our materiality determination the $1.6 billion In our opinion: break fee received from AbbVie.
the financial statements have been properly prepared in We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 that Committee all audit differences in excess of $5million 2014: would have been applied were the Group incorporated in the $3million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our United Kingdom: view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when has been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
ofthe Companies Act 2006 that would have been applied were An overview of the scope of our audit the Group incorporated in the United Kingdom: and Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and Report for the financial year for which the financial statements assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on US, UK, Irish and Swiss entities.
In addition we identified certain companies to perform an audit of specified account balances where considered significant.
These locations represent the principal operations and together with the Group functions in scope account for 96% 2014: 99% of the Groups total assets, 79% 2014: 80% of the Groups revenue.
21% 4% 96% 79% Revenue Total assets Full scope Residual 108 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Matters on which we are required to report by exception Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the to you if, in our opinion: financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and require for our audit: or International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our been received from branches not visited by us: or quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional the financial statements are not in agreement with the standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law Corporate Governance Statement 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of to the companys members those matters we are required to state theCorporate Governance Statement relating to the companys to them in an Auditors report and or those further matters we compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report than the company and the companys members as a body, for our Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and materially inconsistent with the information in the audited disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable financial statements: or assurance that the financial statements are free from material apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate inthecourse of performing our audit: or tothe Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied otherwise misleading.
and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall In particular, we are required to consider whether we have presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired thefinancial and non-financial information in the annual report during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider toidentify material inconsistencies with the audited financial the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and statements and to identify any information that is apparently whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
We confirm that we have not Ifwe become aware of any apparent material misstatements or identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
James Bates For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditors London, United Kingdom February 23, 2016 Shire Annual Report 2015 109
