Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Independent Auditors report Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Independent auditors report to the members As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in of Sky plc addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted Opinion on the financial statements of Sky plc by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by In our opinion the consolidated and Parent Company financial the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
statements of Sky plc: In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and Parent as issued by the IASB.
Companys affairs as at 30 June 2015 and of their profit for the year then ended: Going Concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial statement on page 77 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and we have concluded the Directors use of the going concern basis have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation as regards appropriate: and the consolidated financial statements.
we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or The consolidated financial statements comprise the consolidated and conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability company income statements, the consolidated and company statements to continue as a going concern.
of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company balance sheets, the consolidated and company cash flow statements, the However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, consolidated and company statements of changes in equity, and the this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue related notes 1 to 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been as a going concern.
applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our assessment of risks significant to our audit The risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
During the year the Company acquired Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia introducing new audit risks and additional complexity to the audit.
However, since the operating model and business operations of the acquired entities are similar to those of the UK business, the audit risks are similar to those previously identified and reported on.
In this year of acquisition, we also focused on the accounting for the business combinations and the alignment of accounting policies across the Group.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition Sky retails subscription packages to customers which include multiple We evaluated the groups revenue recognition policy and managements elements and may include discounts and offers, for example TV current year assessment in respect of accounting for bundled subscription, hardware and telephony services sold for a single package transactions against relevant accounting standards and guidance.
The allocation of retail subscription revenue to each element of a We tested the policys implementation in each territory by: bundled transaction is complex and requires judgement, as described in the Groups critical accounting policies on page 93.
There is a risk that performing tests to confirm our understanding of the process by inappropriate allocations could lead to non-compliance with accounting which revenue is calculated by the relevant billing systems: standards and incorrect acceleration or deferral of revenue, principally performing an assessment of the different product bundles and offers for new customers who may enter a contract of one to two years made available to customers in the year and confirming the fair value duration, which may include hardware or installation at discounted prices of different elements of these packages to appropriate evidence of up front.
fair value: assessing whether revenue should be accelerated or deferred based on the relative fair value of elements delivered at different points during the contract, when compared to the revenue calculated by the relevant billing system: and where differences arose between the revenue calculated by the billing system and the revenue recognition profile calculated in accordance with the Groups revenue recognition policy, we audited the valuation, accuracy and completeness of those adjustments recognised to align revenue recognised with the Groups accounting policy.
Sky plc 79 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Independent Auditors report continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Entertainment programming amortisation Determining the timing and amount of the recognition of general The level of expenditure on general entertainment programming varies entertainment programming expense requires judgement as set in each territory, and our procedures focused on entertainment spend out in the Groups critical accounting policies on page 93. in the UK and Italy, which are significant to the group.
There is a risk that the policy selected and applied by management We examined the method for expensing general entertainment to expense general entertainment programming does not recognise programming inventory, taking into account the differing genres the cost of inventory in line with its expected value to the group.
of programmes, any significant changes to viewing profiles and Entertainment programming expense involves more judgement industry benchmarks.
than other programming types due to the number of qualitative Our procedures included: factors involved in the selection and application of an appropriate expense profile.
benchmarking managements policy against industry practice: considering the consistency of amortisation profiles applied year on year: testing the design and implementation of controls over the recognition and expensing of general entertainment programming: and comparing the expense profile determined by management against that which would be indicated by viewing trends used as a proxy for value from broadcast.
Capital expenditure In the UK, spending on capital projects is material and the assessment Our procedures performed in the UK included: and timing of whether assets meet the capitalisation criteria set out Tests of the design, implementation and operating effectiveness in IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets of controls in respect of the capitalisation of assets and the requires judgement as set out in the Groups critical accounting policies identification of potential indicators of impairment: on page 93.
In addition, determining whether there is any indication of impairment of the carrying value of assets being developed also Sample tests of capital expenditure projects including an examination requires judgement.
of managements assessment as to whether the project spend met the recognition criteria set forth in IAS 16 Property, Plant and As a result, there is a risk that expenditure on intangible and tangible Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets, and reviewing project non-current assets in the UK business is inappropriately capitalised status reports for the Groups most significant projects to check against relevant accounting guidance and that assets not yet in use for indicators of impairment: and are not recoverable at their carrying value.
For a sample of capital projects we developed an understanding of the business case and challenged key assumptions and estimates, verifying capital project authorisation, tracing project costs to appropriate evidence.
80 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Acquisition accounting and alignment of accounting policies As described in note 31 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Controls relevant to the acquisition Sky Italia and 89.05% of Sky Deutschland on 12 November 2014 for total We tested the design and implementation of oversight controls over consideration of 6,866 million.
Accounting for business combinations key outputs of the groups acquisition accounting, including controls is complex and requires the recognition of both consideration paid and over the consideration of accounting treatments for new or complex acquired assets and liabilities at the acquisition date at fair values, areas, the oversight exercised by group finance over the harmonisation which can involve significant judgement and estimates.
of accounting policies and the newly implemented controls over the group consolidation.
In addition, accounting policies of the acquired entities must be aligned to the groups accounting policies, which may involve significant 1.
Fair valuation of consideration judgement and estimates.
Our procedures included the following: In particular, the risks relating to these business combinations are that: T ests of the cash value of consideration to relevant transaction agreements and bank documentation: and 1.
T he consideration used in the purchase price allocation may not be recorded at fair value, given that the consideration paid to Fox A uditing the valuation of Sky plcs stake in National Geographic a related party included the value of Sky plcs stake in the National by assessing the expert valuations obtained by management and Geographic Business: using our own valuation specialists to challenge the key assumptions.
T hat the complexity and selection of input assumptions used in the 2.
V aluation of acquired intangible assets valuation of intangible assets recognised on acquisition may result Our procedures included the following: in the recognition of intangible assets not representative of fair value: A n assessment of the process that management had undertaken to 3.
That historical tax losses in Sky Deutschland may not be recoverable: determine the fair value of the acquired intangible assets including and understanding the scope of work, qualifications and independence of the valuation specialists engaged by Sky plc: and 4.
T hat the accounting policy alignment of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia to Sky plcs accounting policies is not complete.
A uditing the valuations prepared by management and their experts including: A ssessing the key valuation assumptions using our own valuation specialists V alidating and challenging key inputs and data used in the valuation model such as customer numbers, ARPU and churn assumptions by reference to historic data.
Sky Deutschland historical tax losses O ur procedures included utilising our tax specialists in the UK and Germany to audit the estimate of tax losses available in Sky Deutschland, and assessing the judgement involved in recognising the related deferred tax asset.
Accounting policy alignment O ur procedures included: C onsideration of the material accounting policies of the acquired entities, the completeness of managements own analysis of the accounting policy differences: P lanning and directing the component auditors of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia to perform an audit of the balance sheet at the date of acquisition: and A uditing the valuation of adjustments recorded where alignment was required.
The description of the risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 45.
We reported to the Audit Committee that our audit work on these risks was concluded satisfactorily.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual audit risks, individual items or disclosures in the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the key risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Sky plc 81 Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Independent Auditors report continued Our application of materiality Matters on which we are required to report by exception We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
in our opinion We use materiality in both planning the scope of our audit work and in we have not received all the information and explanations we require evaluating the results of our work.
The Groups acquisitions in the year for our audit: or have not significantly changed the Groups adjusted profit before tax and we determined audit materiality for the Group to be 50 million adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 2014: 50 million.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or We used profit before tax for our assessment of materiality, which is statutory profit before tax after removing the impact of one-off items the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement such as profit on disposal of associates and available-for-sale with the accounting records and returns.
investment, and transaction fees incurred in relation to the acquisitions We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Materiality represents 6% of this measure.
The Groups adjusted profit before tax measure further excludes the impact of Directors remuneration amortisation of acquired intangible assets, integration costs, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our restructuring costs, derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting and opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been the tax effect of these adjusting items see note 10 for managements made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited definition and reconciliation to adjusted profit for further details.
is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have Audit materiality of 50 million represents approximately 5% 2014: 6% nothing to report arising from these matters.
of the Groups adjusted profit, 2% 2014: 5% of equity and 3% 2014: 5% Corporate Governance Statement of statutory profit before taxation.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance Committee all audit differences in excess of 2.5 million 2014: with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have 2.5 million, as well as differences below that threshold that in nothing to report arising from our review.
our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report to the Audit Committee any significant disclosure matters that we Under the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are identify when assessing the overall presentation of the financial required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual statements.
We confirmed to the Audit Committee that we had Report is: no significant disclosure matters to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial An overview of the scope of our audit statements: or Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing risk of material misstatement at the group level.
Our audit scope focused our audit: or on the Groups UK and Ireland, German and Austrian, and Italian operations, which were subject to a full scope audit for the year ended otherwise misleading.
Our audit scope encompasses all principal business units In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any of the Group and substantially all of the Groups assets, revenue and inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and adjusted profit before tax.
The Group audit team directed, supervised the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, and reviewed the work of the component auditors for Germany and balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report Austria and for Italy, which involved issuing detailed instructions, holding appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the regular discussions with component audit teams, making several visits to Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We each location during the period, performing detailed file reviews and confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or attending local audit meetings with management.
Audit work completed misleading statements.
by component auditors was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each entity which were lower than group materiality.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
82 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor Scope of the audit of the financial statements Responsibility of Directors for the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that out on page 78 the Directors are responsible for the adequacy of the the financial statements are free from material misstatement whether accounting records, the preparation of the financial statements from caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the those records and for being satisfied that the financial statements give accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and a true and fair view.
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Auditors responsibility Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
William Touche This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys London members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors United Kingdom report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we 28 July 2015 do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
