SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 106 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors UK report Independent auditors report to the members Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the ofSmith& Nephew plc only International Accounting Standards Board IASB As explained in the accounting policies set out in the Group Financial Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRS as adopted by the EU, has also applied IFRS as issued by 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified the IASB.
In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements comply We have audited the financial statements of Smith & Nephew plc for with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 111 to 170.
In our opinion: 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the In light of this being the first year of our audit we familiarised ourselves Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 with the business by spending a significant amount of time both at the and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Companys head office in London and key operating locations around The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in the world.
Our primary objective during this phase was to understand accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as the business model of the Group, the risks inherent in that business adopted by the European Union: model and how these are mitigated.
The parent company financial statements have been properly We also met with key functional leaders including: legal: IT: compliance: prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including human resources: and business development to understand the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and priorities, challenges and risks inherent in the changes arising from The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the theongoing simplification programme of the Group.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group We considered the strength of the Groups control environment, financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
therelative maturity and sophistication of the IT infrastructure and theimpact of the simplification programme on financial controls over key processes and transactions.
These assessments highlighted the key areas of financial statement risk that our audit was focused on.
Those that had the greatest effect on our audit are set out below, together with our procedures to address these areas.
Any comments that we make on the results of our procedures should be read in the context of our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Inventory valuation: $1,217 million THE RISK OUR RESPONSE AND CONCLUSIONS The Group has high levels of finished goods some of which are located The key inputs used in estimating the Excess and Obsolescence E&O at customer premises to be available for immediate use.
Complete sets provision include historic sales for significant product lines and of products, including outsizes, have to be made available in this way, expected future usage of inventory.
with these sizes used less frequently.
Towards the end of a products On a sample basis we corroborated historic sales back to underlying life cycle, these inventory levels are more than is required and therefore source data.
We also corroborated on a sample basis the expected excess to requirements.
usage of inventory with the Directors plans for launching new product In estimating the net realisable value for inventory, management has to lines or discontinuing product lines.
apply judgement on how much of the inventory on hand will ultimately We considered the historical accuracy of the provision against actual be used.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of inventory valuation.
As a result, we satisfied ourselves that inventory provisions have been prepared in line with policy and are supportable on the basis of historical trends as well as managements expectations for future sales and inventory management plans.
REFER TO PAGE 75 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT, PAGE 111 ACCOUNTING POLICY AND PAGE 136 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 107 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Revenue: $4,634 million THE RISK OUR RESPONSE AND CONCLUSIONS Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards are passed to Our principal audit procedures included: testing the Groups controls the customer.
surrounding revenue recognition and key controls in the order-to-cash transaction cycle.
This included reconciliations between sales systems Revenue recognition is one of the key judgemental areas for our audit, and the general ledger: assessing whether appropriate revenue particularly in respect of estimates made for contractual rebates, recognition policies are applied through comparison with accounting chargebacks and returns which are deducted in arriving at revenue standards: and performing testing over revenue at significant from wholesale customers and distributors.
components, which included analysis of product sales year-on-year, corroborating movements compared with expectations and inspection of contracts with customers.
Our audit work in respect of the accrual rebates, chargebacks and returns involved testing key controls including the Groups review of chargebacks, returns and rebates.
We also assessed the accuracy of the accrual calculation, corroborated inputs and key assumptions, both to source documents, and considered the historical accuracy of the accrual.
We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures of its revenue recognition policy, the judgment involved and other related disclosures.
The results of our testing were satisfactory and we concur that revenue recognition is appropriate.
REFER TO PAGE 75 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT AND PAGE 121 ACCOUNTING POLICY AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES Litigation reserves and contingent liabilities $303 million included in provisions THE RISK OUR RESPONSE AND CONCLUSIONS The development, manufacture and sale of medical devices entails risk We tested the Groups controls surrounding litigation and contingent of product liability claims and patent infringement issues due to the liabilities, inspected legal invoices and corresponded directly with technological nature of the products and the competitive nature of the external legal advisers to understand the fact patterns and ensure that industry.
Determining the impact and likely outcome of any litigation all significant cases had been adequately considered.
matters is inherently subjective and the amounts involved are We tested the estimates of provisions, including their assessment of potentially material.
potential royalties payable for past sales, and expected settlement of As disclosed in Note 17 a provision of $185 million has been product liability cases.
We challenged the assumptions made based recognised in the year in respect of potential liabilities arising from the on the fact pattern of similar historic cases.
ongoing exposure for Metal on Metal implants.
For the liability recognised in respect of the expected payouts for Metal on Metal cases we involved our actuarial specialists to review the critical assumptions used in statistical projections in determining the estimate.
The key assumptions included: expected number of claimants: projected value of each settlement: and the likely time period expected for settlement.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of litigation reserves and contingent liabilities.
The results of our testing were satisfactory and we concur that the costs in respect of litigation and contingent liabilities is appropriate.
REFER TO PAGE 75 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT, PAGE 111 ACCOUNTING POLICY AND PAGE 146 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 108 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors UK report continued Valuation of acquired intangible assets included in intangible assets of $1,502 million THE RISK OUR RESPONSE AND CONCLUSIONS The Group has capitalised acquired intangibles of which the most Our audit procedures included testing the principles and integrity of significant relate to recent acquisitions in respect of ArthroCare the Groups discounted cash flow models and corroborating the acquired in 2014 and Healthpoint acquired in 2012. assumptions made on revenue and profitability projections.
There is a risk that due to changes in the competitive landscape, We tested the sensitivity of key assumptions to the value in use regulatory or other external factors the acquired assets underperform calculated.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about in comparison to their original investment case and that the carrying the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to value may be impaired.
changes in key assumptions reflected the key risks inherent in the valuation of acquired intangibles.
An impairment charge of $40 million has been recognised in the current year in relation to an acquired brand, Oasis, from the As a result of our work, we determined that the quantum of impairment Healthpoint acquisition which has underperformed against the original recognised in 2015 was appropriate.
For those intangible assets, where investment case.
management determined no impairment was required, we found that these judgements were supported by reasonable assumptions.
REFER TO PAGE 75 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT, PAGE 111 ACCOUNTING POLICY AND PAGES 133 TO 134 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES Tax provisioning included in current tax payable of $ 263 million THE RISK OUR RESPONSE AND CONCLUSIONS Accruals for tax contingencies require the Directors to make In this area our audit procedures included the use of our own judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures international and local tax specialists to assess the Groups tax given that the Group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions, the positions, its correspondence with the relevant tax authorities, and to complexities of transfer pricing and other international tax legislation analyse and challenge the assumptions used to determine tax and the time taken for tax matters to be agreed with the tax authorities.
provisions based on our knowledge and experiences of the application of the international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
From the evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole.
REFER TO PAGE 75 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT, PAGE 111 ACCOUNTING POLICY AND PAGE 126 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 109 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The remaining 22% of total Group revenue, 5% of Group profit before 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of tax and 13% of total Group assets is represented by 74 reporting our audit components, none of which individually represented more than 5% of The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at any of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax or total Group $44 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of 5% of Group assets.
For these remaining components, we performed analysis at an profit before tax normalised to exclude acquisition related costs of aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were $12 million, impairment charges of $51 million, restructuring and no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
rationalisation expenses of $65 million and legal and other charges of The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the $190 million as disclosed in Note 3.
We believe that pre-tax profit significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed excluding these items provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team for determining materiality and is the most relevant performance approved the component materialities which ranged from $5 million to measure to the shareholders of the entity.
$35 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group MATERIALITY FOR THE across the components.
The work on 32 of the 69 components was GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS performed by component auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
ADJUSTED PROFIT The Group audit team visited 24 components in USA, China, UK, Brazil, BEFORE TAX MATERIALITY Australia, Italy, Germany and Switzerland.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors and the $2.2m $877m $44m majority of the others that were not physically visited.
At these visits Misstatements reporting andmeetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were threshold discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified 5% 5% In our opinion: The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Of the Groups 143 reporting components, we subjected 60 to full 2006: and scope audits for Group reporting purposes, nine to audits of specific The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors account balances.
The latter were not individually financially significant Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but were included in prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
the scope of our Group reporting work in order to provide further coverage over the identified risks and the Groups results.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results: GROUP REVENUE GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX TOTAL ASSETS % % % 5 13 7 22 8 12 66 79 88 A Audits for group reporting purposes 145 components B Audits of account balances revenue, receivables and inventory 9 components C Out of scope SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 110 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors UK report continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have The Directors statements, set out on pages 104 and 49, in relation to nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: going concern and longer-term viability: and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 57 in the The Directors statement of viability statement on page 49, concerning Corporate Governance report relating to the Companys compliance the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the with the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in specified for our review.
operation over the three years to December 2018: or The disclosures in Note 1 of the financial statements concerning the We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
use of the going concern basis of accounting.
Scope and responsibilities 6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement we are required to report by exception setout on page 104, the Directors are responsible for the preparation othe financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based trueand fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website other information in the Annual Report that contains a material atwww.
This report is made solely to inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, theCompanys members as a body and is subject to important amaterial misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published In particular, we are required to report to you if: on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014b, which are We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
awhole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or Stephen Oxley Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor The Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters Chartered Accountants communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
15 Canada Square Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, London inour opinion: E14 5GL Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 24 February 2016 company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
