SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com 105 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors US report A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process Report of Independent Registered Public designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of Accountingfirms financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting The Board of Directors and Shareholders Smith & Nephew plc: principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes We have audited the accompanying Group balance sheet of Smith & those policies and procedures that i pertain to the maintenance of Nephew plc and subsidiaries as of 31 December 2015 and the related records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the Group income statement, Group statement of comprehensive income, transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: ii provide Group cash flow statement and Group statement of changes in equity, reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to for the year then ended.
We also have audited Smith & Nephew plcs permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2015, based accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework 2013 the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway management and directors of the company: and iii provide reasonable Commission COSO.
Smith & Nephew plcs management is assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised responsible for these Group financial statements, for maintaining acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment a material effect on the financial statements.
of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial in the accompanying Evaluation of Internal Controls.
Our responsibility reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of isto express an opinion on these Group financial statements and an any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk opinion on the Companys internal control over financial reporting that controls may become inadequate because of changes in based on our audits.
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the procedures may deteriorate.
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements referred to above present Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Smith & Nephew reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free plc and subsidiaries as of 31 December 2015, and the results of their of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over operations and their cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the ofthe Group financial statements included examining, on a test basis, International Accounting Standards Board and in conformity with IFRS evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial as adopted by the European Union.
Also in our opinion, Smith & statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant Nephew plc maintained, in all material respects, effective internal estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2015, based on statement presentation.
Our audit of internal control over financial criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework 2013 reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, Commission COSO.
and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included As discussed in Note 2 to the Group financial statements, in 2015 performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the Smith& Nephew plc elected to change the composition of its circumstances.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis reportable segments.
We also have audited the adjustments to the for our opinions.
2014 and 2013 Group financial statements to retrospectively reflect the change in composition of reportable segments.
In our opinion, such adjustments are appropriate and have been properly applied.
We were not engaged to audit, review, or apply any procedures to the 2014 or 2013 Group financial statements of Smith & Nephew plc and subsidiaries other than with respect to the adjustments and, accordingly, we do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance on the 2014 or 2013 Group financial statements taken as a whole.
KPMG LLP London, United Kingdom 24 February 2016
