INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THEMEMBERS OF SPECTRIS PLC ONLY We applied sensitivities to the assumptions Opinions and conclusions arising The risk: used by the Group in its impairment fromour audit calculations to evaluate the impact on the The Groups cash-generating units CGUs headroom for each CGU.
Our opinion on the Financial operate across a broad range of markets, products and geographies.
The assessment of consideration of the historical accuracy of the Statements is unmodified the recoverability of goodwill is based on the Groups forecasting for Omega Engineering We have audited the Financial Statements of future business prospects and forecast trading foreach full year since ownership to inform Spectris plc for the year ended 31 December performance of the Group across these areas.
our own assessments noted above.
2015 which comprise the Consolidated Income Due to challenging trading environments in To assess the reasonableness of the forecast Statement, the Consolidated Statement of recent years and the inherent uncertainty discounted cash flows, we compared the Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated involved in forecasting and discounting future sumof those cash flows to the Groups Statement of Changes in Equity, the cash flows, which are the basis of the marketcapitalisation.
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, assessment of recoverability, this is one of We also assessed whether the Groups the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, thekey judgemental areas that our audit disclosures see Note 11 about the sensitivity theParent Company Balance Sheet, the concentrated on.
There is the risk that the of the outcome of the impairment assessment ParentCompany Statement of Changes in keyassumptions, estimates and judgements to changes in key assumptions reflected the Equityand the related notes.
In our opinion: on which the calculations are based are key risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
inappropriate and that goodwill is overstated the Financial Statements give a true and fair as a result.
Working capital provisions view of the state of the Groups and of the Refer to page 70 Audit and Risk Committee Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December Our response: Report, pages 109 to 110 accounting policy 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year and pages 128 to 129 financial disclosures.
then ended: Our audit procedures included evaluating the the Group Financial Statements have been Groups key assumptions and methodologies, The risk: properly prepared in accordance with in particular those in respect of CGUs with International Financial Reporting Standards lower headroom: Omega Engineering, which The Group has significant inventory and trade asadopted by the European Union IFRS as experienced challenging market conditions receivable balances and the Directors have adopted by the EU : inNorth America: and ESG Solutions, a more toapply judgement to assess the level of the Parent Company Financial Statements recent acquisition, adversely impacted by provisions required to write down obsolete, have been properly prepared in accordance lower oil and gas prices on its customers.
excess and slow-moving inventory items to with UK Accounting Standards, including Thecarrying values of goodwill for their net realisable value and to write down FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and OmegaEngineering and ESG Solutions the value of trade receivables to their the Financial Statements have been prepared at31December 2015 were 178.9 million recoverable amounts.
in accordance with the requirements of the and16.2 millionrespectively.
In respect of inventory provisions each Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the We critically challenged the assumed long operating company in the Group is required to Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the term growth rates by comparing to recent apply a methodology to calculate an inventory IAS Regulation.
historical trading performance within the provision that is appropriate to the specific Group, forecast economic growth rates and business facts and circumstances which 2.
Our assessment of risks of material also the long-term growth rates used by an requires the application of judgement misstatement external peer group.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the We used our own valuation specialists to In respect of trade receivables the Groups Financial Statements the risks of material critically challenge the discount rates used by credit risk policy requires analysis of individual misstatement that had the greatest effect the Group and benchmarked these discount receivable account balances, taking into on our audit were as follows: rates to those used by an external peer group.
account receivables that are past due for more We critically assessed the other assumptions than 120 days and any securities held.
Recoverability of goodwill used by the Group using our own assessments The level of judgement involved in determining Refer to page 70 Audit and Risk Committee and a comparison to recent performance in whether a provision should be recognised Report, page 108 accounting policy and relation to key inputs such as forecast revenue andhow it should be measured, coupled with pages125 and 126 financial disclosures.
over the next three years, operating margins the fact that provision movements impact and profit to cash conversion.
earnings, results in working capital provisions being one of the key judgemental areas that our audit concentrated on.
98 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 Purchase price adjustments can be disputed Our response: This is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit concentrated on due to the Group bythe seller and, therefore, can require operating in a number of different tax judgement in determining the expected In respect of inventory provisions our audit jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer settlement amount.
procedures included considering the pricing and other international tax legislation appropriateness of the Groups methodologies and the time taken for tax matters to be Our response: in the context of our understanding of the agreed with the tax authorities.
Movements individual businesses in the Group with intax provisions impact earnings.
Our audit procedures included critically reference to the ageing and nature of challenging the key valuation assumptions and inventory, past usage, forecast future usage, Our response: methodologies which were used as the basis economic conditions and new product for the determination of the fair value of the launches and technology.
We compared the Our audit procedures included the use of our intangible assets.
This included comparison methodologies and assumptions used in own international and local tax specialists to against industry norms, and consideration of calculating the inventory provision to those assess the Groups tax positions and to read the reasonableness of assumptions underlying used in prior years: as part of this we the latest correspondence with the relevant the identification of separately identifiable considered whether we would expect a tax authorities.
We analysed and challenged intangible assets and associated revenue change to the methodologies and assumptions the assumptions used by the Directors to growth rates used in the forecasts, and used.
We recalculated on a sample basis determine tax provisions using our knowledge theiruseful economic lives together provisions recorded by the Group and and experiences of the application of the withconsidering what is represented by compared the accuracy of the usage data to international and local legislation by residual goodwill.
underlying documentation to assess the therelevant authorities and courts.
In respect of contingent consideration our accuracy of the data used in the calculation.
We have also considered the adequacy of work focussed on the forecast results of the We also considered the historical accuracy of theGroups disclosures in respect of tax acquired businesses which is the basis for the provisions made by the Group by examining anduncertain tax positions.
estimate of the contingent consideration the reversal of previously recorded provisions.
The key assumptions underlying those In respect of trade receivable provisions our Acquisition accounting forecasts were compared with the Groups audit procedures included considering the Refer to page 70 Audit and Risk Committee planned development of the business and also appropriateness of the provisions recorded Report, page 108 accounting policy and pages the historical trading performance of the against trade receivable balances considered 143 to 145 financial disclosures.
acquired business and results since the doubtful and the appropriateness of the acquisition date.
Groups provisioning policy, with reference to The risk: In respect to a disputed purchase price the ageing of customer balances, economic adjustment, we critically challenged the conditions, the concentration of counterparty During the year the Group completed five assumptions used in assessing the expected risk, past history of recovery and any acquisitions for a total consideration of recoverable amount from the seller with securitiesheld.
reference to the purchase agreement, There is significant judgement involved in discussion with the Groups internal legal Tax provisions determining the fair value of the identifiable counsel and review of correspondence with Refer to pages 70 and 71 Audit and Risk assets and liabilities acquired given the the Groups external legal counsel where Committee Report, page 110 accounting specialised nature of the acquired businesses relevant.
policy and pages 122 and 123, and 136 to 138 and associated technological, customer and We also considered the adequacy of the financial disclosures.
Groups disclosures see Notes 24 and 26 Contingent consideration in relation to with respect to the acquisitions, purchase The risk: acquisitions made in the current year and price adjustments and contingent recent years has been recognised and is consideration.
Governmental challenge of transfer pricing payable on the achievement of future sales and financing arrangements may result in tax targets.
Given the uncertainty regarding exposures and potential interest and penalties.
achievement of these targets, significant Recognition and measurement of provisions judgement is required in measuring the fair for tax exposures relating to open tax years value of the Groups contingent consideration are subject to management judgement andestimation.
obligation both at the acquisition date and at the balance sheet date.
com INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THEMEMBERS OF SPECTRIS PLC ONLY CONTINUED 4.
Our opinion on other matters 3.
Our application of materiality and The remaining 32% of total Group revenue, prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 anoverview of the scope of our audit 18%of Group profit before tax and 31% of isunmodified The materiality for the Group Financial totalGroup assets is represented by reporting In our opinion: Statements as a whole was set at 7.0 million components none of which individually 2014:11.0 million, determined with reference represents more than 3% of these measures.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to abenchmark of Group profit before tax, of Forthe remaining components, we performed to be audited has been properly prepared in which it represents 5%, reflecting consensus analysis at the Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and levels 2014: 6%.
of material misstatement within them.
the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for We report to the Audit and Risk Committee The Group audit team instructed component which the Financial Statements are prepared anycorrected or uncorrected identified auditors as to the significant areas to be isconsistent with the Financial Statements.
misstatements exceeding 0.4 million, in covered, including the relevant risks detailed addition to other identified misstatements above and the information to be reported back.
We have nothing to report on belowthat threshold that warranted reporting thedisclosures of principal risks on qualitative grounds.
The Group audit team set or approved the Based on the knowledge we acquired during component materiality levels, which ranged from ouraudit, we have nothing material to add or Audits for Group reporting purposes were 0.1 million to 2.2 million, having regard to the draw attention to in relation to: performed at key reporting components in the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across following countries: Canada, China, Denmark, the components as well as considering the risk the Directors viability statement on page 31, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, when aggregating misstatements that may concerning the principal risks, their Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the USA.
management, and, based on that, the Specific risk-focussed audit procedures were Directors assessment and expectations of performed at reporting components in The Group audit team performed the work on theGroups continuing in operation over the Singapore and the USA: these components were recoverability of goodwill, acquisition accounting threeyears to 31 December 2018: or not individually significant but were included in and centrally recorded tax provisions.
The Group the disclosures in Note 1 of the Financial the scope of our Group reporting work in order audit team performed the audit work and were Statements concerning the use of the going to provide further coverage over the identified physically present at four out of five reporting concern basis of accounting.
risks and the Groups results.
In addition, components in scope in the USA, the Groups specified risk-focussed audit procedures were single largest geographical market, as well as 6.
We have nothing to report in respect performed by the Group audit team over other the business in Canada acquired in December ofthe matters on which we are required reporting components as part of the audit for 2014.
In addition, the Group audit team to report by exception Group reporting purposes: these other reporting physically visited key reporting components in Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to components, typically smaller in size, were the following countries the purpose of which report to you if, based on the knowledge we selected at short notice to give an element of included an assessment of the audit risk and acquired during our audit, we have identified unpredictability in our overall scope of work.
strategy: Brazil, Denmark, Germany, Switzerland, other information in the Annual Report that the United Kingdom and the USA.
Video or contains a material inconsistency with either In aggregate our audit procedures covered 68% telephone conference meetings were also that knowledge or the Financial Statements, of total Group revenue: 82% of Groupprofit heldwith the auditors at these locations and amaterial misstatement of fact, or that is before tax: and 69% of total Group assets.
allof the other locations that were not otherwise misleading.
100 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 In particular, we are required to report to you if: Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors we have identified material inconsistencies Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 96 between the knowledge we acquired during and 97, the Directors are responsible for the our audit and the Directors statement that preparation of the Financial Statements and they consider that the Annual Report and forbeing satisfied that they give a true and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, fairview.
Adescription of the scope of an balanced and understandable and provides auditof Financial Statements is provided the information necessary for shareholders ontheFinancial Reporting Councils website toassess the Groups performance, business atwww.
Thisreportis made solely to the Companys model and strategy: or membersas abody and subject to important the Audit and Risk Committee Report does not explanations and disclaimers regarding our appropriately address matters communicated responsibilities, published on our website at by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required setout in full and should be read to provide to report to you if, in our opinion: anunderstanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis adequate accounting records have not been ofour opinions.
kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Richard Broadbelt from branches not visited by us: or Senior Statutory Auditor the Parent Company Financial Statements and for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Statutory Auditor to be audited are not in agreement with the Chartered Accountants accounting records and returns: or 15 Canada Square certain disclosures of Directors remuneration London, E14 5GL specified by law are not made: or 16 February 2016 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required toreview: the Directors statement, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability, set out on page 96 and page 31 respectively: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report on page 59 relating to the Companys compliance with the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
