Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc only Opinion on Financial Statements of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31st December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Statements of financial position, the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Statements of changes in equity, the Cash flow statements and the related Notes 1 to 28 for the Consolidated Financial Statements and 1 to 11 for the Company Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company Financial Statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within Note 1 to the Financial Statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Governance Report on page 111.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors' confirmation on page 111 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 32 to 33 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in Note 1 to the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over aperiod of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: the Director's explanation on page 111 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 116 Annual Report 2015 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation ofresources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The Audit Committee has requested that while not required under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we include in ourreport any significant key observations in respect of these assessed risks of material misstatement.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Revenue recognition We performed walkthroughs to understand the adequacy of the We noted no design and implementation of the controls relating to the revenue material instances The risk in revenue recognition focuses on the cycles and, at significant components, we produced revenue of inappropriate recognition of revenue for product by reference flow-charts to map out the end to end controls and processes in revenue recognition to contracted shipping terms and the transfer place.
We reviewed the product despatch cycle across the yeararising in of ownership for product despatch and delivery end period and sampled a selection of items confirming the date our testing.
There is significant volume of transfer of ownership was in line with the revenue recognition of trade in the final quarter of the year.
There is date in accordance with the terms of trade with customers.
also a focus on any significant new contracts to determine the appropriate recognition of revenue.
We performed testing on a sample of contracts, including new contracts, to determine the appropriateness of the Refer to Note 1 for the Groups Revenue revenue recognition.
Inventory obsolescence We compared the methodology applied in calculating the We noted inventory obsolescence provisions to the Groups policy and we no material Inventory of 93 million at 31st December 2015 challenged managements judgement of the adequacy of the inconsistencies 31st December 2014: 98 million is a material policy by reviewing the level of provision held across the Group.
through our balance for the Group.
There is risk surrounding We reviewed a sample of provision calculations by recalculating testing.
We concur the obsolescence of inventory in niche markets the provision and testing and verifying the accuracy of the usage that the level of and industries where local demand fluctuates data to underlying documentation to confirm the accuracy of the inventory provisions over periods.
There are judgements required in data used in the calculation.
We investigated manual override to is appropriate.
determining inventory provisions as they require the mechanical application of the Group inventory obsolescence assessment based on past and future product provisioning policy and where applicable obtained evidence such usage and whether the provision is adequate to as the order book or post year-end orders or sales to support cover any obsolescence.
We also considered the historical Refer to Note 1 for the Groups inventory policy accuracy of managements provisioning for inventory through and Note 15 for the financial disclosure.
a retrospective review of the level of provision recorded in prior years compared to the actual levels of stock written off.
Defined benefit pension plan assumptions We used our internal actuarial experts to assess the key From the work assumptions applied in determining the pension obligations performed above At 31st December 2015 the net retirement for the five main schemes, and determined whether the key we are satisfied benefit liability recognised in the Statement of assumptions are reasonable.
Testing covered 98% of defined that the key financial position was 74 million 31st December benefit pension liabilities.
Key assumptions assessed included assumptions 2014: 76 million.
There is a risk relating to the future mortality, discount rate and inflation.
Our assessment applied in respect judgements made by management in valuing the included reviewing available yield curves and inflation data to of the valuation defined benefit pension liabilities including the recalculate a reasonable range for the key assumptions.
We of the scheme use of key model input assumptions including the challenged management to understand the sensitivity of changes assets and liabilities discount rate, mortality assumption and inflation in key assumptions and quantify a range of reasonable rates that are appropriate.
These variables can have a material impact could be used in their calculation.
We tested the controls around in calculating the quantum of the retirement participant data.
Additionally we benchmarked key assumptions benefit liability.
against other listed companies to check for any outliers in the Refer to Note 1 for the Groups policy on defined data used.
benefit plans and Note 24 for the financial disclosure including the key assumptions used inthe defined benefit pension plan valuation.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 117 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Financial Statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc only Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Goodwill impairment We challenged the adequacy and reasonableness of the key We concluded that assumptions used in managements impairment calculations.
the assumptions At 31st December 2015 the carrying value This included specific challenge over the forecasts underpinning applied in the of goodwill was 54 million 31st December the impairment assessment.
In particular, our challenge focused impairment models 2014: 48 million.
There is a risk relating to on the discount rates and growth rates, the appropriateness were appropriate the key assumptions and assertions used by of the level of aggregation of individual cash generating units and no additional management to support their assessment of CGUs and the methodology applied.
We benchmarked the impairments the carrying value of goodwill.
Goodwill is a discount rates with published rates for an external peer group.
In were identified material balance on the Consolidated statement addition we used our valuation specialists within the audit team to from the work of financial position and there are a number calculate an acceptable range of discount rates and compared performed above.
of judgements applied in determining the our range to that determined by management.
We challenged the recoverable amounts.
Key assumptions include perpetuity growth rates by benchmarking against industry and discount rates applied, the level of aggregation GDP growth rates.
There are 36 CGU groups and we checked of individual cash generating units CGUs and the CGU groupings to cash inflows and information reviewed the growth rates applied to forecast trading by management to make decisions about their business.
We performance based on managements view of challenged the forecast cash flows used in the model against future business prospects.
historical performance and assessed historical forecasting Refer to Note 1 for the Groups policy for accuracy.
intangible assets and Note 12 for the financial We also challenged managements sensitivity analysis to assess disclosures including the key assumptions used in whether it reflected a reasonable worst case scenario.
Having audited the assumptions within managements impairment model, we checked the arithmetic accuracy and integrity of the model.
Last year our report included a taxation risk in relation to provisions for liabilities attributed to specific uncertain tax position, this risk is not included in our report this year.
Whilst still a significant area of audit focus, the risk in relation to taxation provisions is no longer considered to be material to the Group Financial Statements.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 78.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 7.0 million 2014: 7.3 million, which is 5% 2014: 5% of statutory profit before tax.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 139,000 2014: 145,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 24 2014: 25 components.
20 2014: 21 of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining 4 2014: 4 were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those components.
These components represent the principal business units and account for 88% 2014: 93% of the Groups total assets, 74% 2014: 80% of the Groups revenue and 75% 2014: 87% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 0.1 million to 3.5 million 2014: 0.1 million to 3.6 million.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the key components where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every three years and the most significant of them at least once a year.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 118 Annual Report 2015 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in anAuditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the Financial and Non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Mullins FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 2nd March 2016 119 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
