FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report To the members of Spire Healthcare Group plc OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion: Spire Healthcare Group plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED Spire Healthcare Group plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 Balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Cash flow statement for the year then ended then ended Related notes C1 to C13 to the financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 34 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Risks of material Improper revenue recognition management manipulation misstatement Improper revenue recognition complexity of PMI and NHS contracts Inappropriate capitalisation of development costs of new hospitals Manchester hospital asset impairment Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of four Group companies and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 16 Group companies.
The Group companies for which we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 100% of revenue, 100% of profit before tax and 99% of total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 3.7 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
98 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
New in 2015 Improper revenue recognition management manipulation Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 68 to 71 and accounting policies on page 111.
What we concluded to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee 2015 revenue: 885 million 2014: Evaluated and tested controls over the maintenance We did not identify any issues 856 million and accuracy of the pricing master file and its regarding improper revenue interface with SAP.
recognition or ineffectiveness We considered that pressure to achieve Our testing involved the audit of controls over a of the controls over the revenue results and secure bonus payments sample of patient procedures for which revenue process.
increases the risk of financial reporting is recognised, agreeing to proof of procedure, and manipulation by management.
We Based on our audit procedures corroborating the pricing back to agreed price lists consider there to be a risk that revenue performed, we concluded insured, NHS and Self-pay and contracts.
is inappropriately reported to achieve a that revenue for the year is The timeliness of cash payments from all of the main desired financial result.
We believe that the appropriately recognised customer streams has been corroborated to provide opportunity to manipulate revenue creates and free from material additional assurance around the accuracy of revenue a heightened risk in the following misstatement.
We obtained a breakdown of cash four areas: settlements to verify the recoverability of period inappropriate revenue recognition by way end debtors.
of management manipulation of the Tested controls around the monthly NHS procedures pricing master file resulting in inaccurate and payments SAC reconciliation, as well as patient invoicing, primarily in respect of analytically reviewing the activity report within this PMI revenue: reconciliation for unexpected or unusual changes inaccurate coding at the hospital level in types of treatment provided and recognised across a number of hospitals, either as revenue.
through coders being misdirected by Reviewed an independent audit report on the management to apply incorrect HRG adequacy of expert clinical coders and enquired on procedure codes for NHS revenue or the Groups responses to the reports key findings.
intentional miscoding of PMI procedures For other income, our audit involved, in addition to where incentivisation and direction to the testing of cash payments from the NHS, miscode could result in a material revenue agreement to source documents supporting the misstatement: measurement and accuracy of the revenue material overstatement of other income, recognised.
specifically revenue earned through the The risk of material misstatement in patient revenue specific NHS campaigns where the towards the year end has been addressed through an reporting of results achieved could be increased level of substantive testing in respect of manipulated: and revenue cut off around the year end date.
material risk that deferred patient We performed full and specific scope audit procedures revenue, across all payor groups, could be which meant that 100% rounded of the Groups manipulated through early recognition revenue was included in our population for testing.
deferral at the year end date.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report continued Improper revenue recognition complexity of PMI and NHS contracts Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 68 to 71.
What we concluded to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee 2015 PMI revenue: 435 million Certain of the audit procedures designed to address We did not identify any 2014: 432 million the fraud risk as referred to above, have also issues regarding any material addressed this significant risk of misstatement.
mis-billing arising from the 2015 NHS revenue: 262 million Our testing has involved the audit of controls over complexity of NHS and 2014: 246 million a sample of revenue procedures and transactions.
The complexity of PMI and NHS contracts In addition, we have substantively agreed a sample Based on our audit procedures could result in mis-billing, either through of revenue transactions back to proof of procedure performed, we concluded inaccurate coding, or using an inappropriate and agreed price lists.
that revenue for the year is price list.
The result would be that an Timeliness of cash payments provides additional appropriately recognised and invoice would not be settled, and the assurance of revenue recognition and has been free from material invoice would have to be cancelled, evidenced as received where appropriate.
These errors may not be corrected by the end of the year, resulting in the risk of a material misstatement to revenue.
New in 2015 Inappropriate capitalisation of development costs of new hospitals Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 68 to 71 and note 17 of the Consolidated financial statements on page 122.
What we concluded to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee During 2015, total capital expenditure We tested the effectiveness of controls associated Our audit procedures found across the Group was 110 million 2014: with the capitalisation of development expenditure no instances of expenditure 67 million.
We performed testing of the nature, relevance to the which in our opinion had been project, existence and accuracy of additions to inappropriately capitalised.
Construction is under way on new property, plant and equipment during the year using hospitals in Manchester and Nottingham.
Additionally, the Group is redeveloping parts of Spire St Anthonys Hospital, amongst other development projects at existing hospitals, and has built a Specialist Care Centre in Baddow during the year.
Given managements bonus structure and analysts expectations on the Groups performance, we consider the risk of inappropriate capitalisation to these significant development projects as a material fraud risk in accordance with the auditing standards definition.
We have focussed on this area in 2015 as the level of capital expenditure is significantly more material to the financial statements than in prior years.
100 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION New in 2015 Manchester hospital asset impairment Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 68 to 71: accounting policies on page 112: and note 17 of the Consolidated financial statements on page 122.
What we concluded to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Spires new hospital in West Didsbury Through enquiries of management, we assessed Managements forecast is planned to open in early 2017.
As a the various operational and commercial options supports both the impairment consequence, the Directors have considered available to the Directors for the existing Manchester charge recognised in the year the impact on the Groups existing hospital site from 2017. but also that the lease is not in Manchester, from the date of the new We tested managements forecast earnings analysis.
We agree that balance facility being opened.
The existing facility is We considered the, key assumptions and sensitivities sheet position at 31 December held under an operating lease arrangement in respect of the reduced earnings potential.
2015 appropriately reflects which expires in 2042. the impact of the new West Didsbury site on the earnings The directors have forecast the of the existing Manchester site.
consequential reduction in the earnings of the existing Manchester hospital.
This has resulted in an impairment charge of 5.7 million being recognised against the sites leasehold improvements and equipment.
However, based on their forecasts, the Directors have concluded that no onerous lease provision is required in respect of the lease.
In the prior year, our auditors report included risks of material misstatements in relation to goodwill carrying amounts, appropriate recognition of deferred tax assets and the treatment of costs directly attributable to the Groups Admission.
In the current year, have determined that these risks do not have the greatest effect on the financial statements in the year ended 31 December 2015.
The carrying amount of goodwill has not been an area of major audit focus this year because the results of the last few years impairment review showed the value-in-use of the goodwill was significantly in excess of its carrying value.
Given the continued year-on-year growth in the business, and managements assessment of the forecast future profitability of the Group for the foreseeable future, we considered the risk of impairment to be reduced this year.
The risk of inappropriate recognition of deferred tax balances is no longer considered to be significant due to our assessment that there is little sensitivity to the judgements underpinning the basis of the deferred tax liability expected to arise in respect of the property portfolio, there is little judgement in respect of availability of losses across the Group nor judgement in respect of the right of offset of assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 12.
The risk area we identified last year relating to the treatment of costs directly attributable to the Groups IPO is not applicable this year due to the one-off nature of these transactions.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report continued THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the Consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of group-wide controls when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, we identified the subsidiaries which represent the principal business units within the Group.
The Group continues to operate solely in the UK.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of four entities full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For a further 16 entities specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that entity that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The entities for which we performed audit procedures accounted for 100% 2014: 99% of the Groups revenue, 100% 2014: 100% of the Groups profit before tax, and 99% 2014: 99% of the Groups total assets.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 97% 2014: 96% of the Groups revenue and 62% 2014: 46% of the Groups total assets.
The specific scope components contributed 3% 2014: 3% of the Groups revenue and 37% 2014: 53% of the Groups total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but has contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
Due to the distribution of the constituent parts of profit before tax across the Groups entities, it is not possible to present the split between full and specific scope components in a meaningful way as intra-group profits earned in certain specific scope components results in the aggregate profit before tax at the component level being marginally in excess of 100%.
For the remaining entities we performed other procedures, including analytical review and testing of the clerical accuracy of the consolidation to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed.
The audit of the entities within the Group is undertaken by one audit team which is led by the senior statutory auditor.
There have not been any significant changes to the scope of our audit from the prior year.
REVENUE % TOTAL ASSETS % 1 3 37 62 97 Full scope components 97% Full scope components 62% Specific scope components 3% Specific scope components 37% Other procedures 1% Other procedures 0% 102 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating 100% the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
3.7m Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial 75% 2.8m statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.7 million 2014: 3.9 million, which is 5% of profit before tax 2014: 5% of profit before tax and after adding back exceptional Materiality Performance associated with the Groups IPO.
We believe that profit before tax provides us with the materiality most applicable measurement basis for the users of the financial statements.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
0.2m On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2014: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 2.8 million 2014: 2.9 million.
We have set T olerance for potential undetected misstatements performance materiality at this percentage due to our assessment of the overall control environment and the history of no or very few audit adjustments.
T olerance for uncorrected misstatements U ncorrected misstatement reporting Audit work on subsidiaries for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant threshold financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each entity is based on the relative scale and risk of the entity to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement arising in that entity.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to subsidiary entities was 0.6 million to 2.8 million 2014: 0.6 million to 2.9 million.
Performance threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.2 million 2014: 0.2 million, which is set at 5% of materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 97, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report continued OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISA UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information We have no exceptions reporting in the Annual Report is: to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions reporting to report.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no exceptions requirements to report.
the Directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 96, and longer-term viability, set out on page 49: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
104 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Statement on the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISA UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add We have nothing reporting or to draw attention to in relation to: material to add or to draw attention to.
the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Debbie OHanlon Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 16 March 2016 Notes applicable where this report is published electronically: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Spire Healthcare Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 105
