Financial Statements Financial Statements I In nd dep epen end den ent t aud audi it to or rs s r rep epo or rt t to the members of SSE plc 1 1.. O Ou ur o r op pi in ni io on o n on t n th he f e fi in na an nc ci ia al s l st ta at te em me en nt ts i s is u s un nm mo od di if fi ie ed d We have audited the financial statements of SSE Plc for the year ended 31 March 2015 set out on pages 115 to 198.
In our opinion: - the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: - the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : - the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and - the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 2.. O Ou ur r a as ss se es ss smen ment t o of f r ri is sks ks o of f ma mat ter eri ia al l mi mis ss st ta at temen ement t In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: The risk Our response Accounting for estimated revenue 1.1 billion included within total external group Energy Supply revenues of 8.0 billion Refer to page 86 Audit Committee statement, notes 3.1 and A1.2 accounting policy and note 19 financial disclosures Certain of the Groups energy sales revenues are based on estimates of For estimated revenue our audit procedures included performing various the values of electricity and gas supplied to customers between the date analytical procedures using actual data to allow us to set expectations of the last meter reading and the year end estimated revenues where as to the likely level of estimated revenue and comparing this with the no bill has been issued at the year end date.
groups estimate, obtaining explanations for significant differences.
We also challenged the groups assumptions relating to volume and The method of estimating such revenues is complex and judgemental price used in determining the level of estimated revenue, as follows: and requires estimates and assumptions being made to: Volume - estimate the volumes of energy consumed by customers.
The groups We agreed the core volume data underlying the calculation of the estimated accrual for revenue at the year end is based on the closing estimated volumes into purchases, sales and other systems having unbilled volume reflected within the financial statements in the prior performed sample testing of the key controls on these systems.
year, with adjustments made for gas or electricity procured for customers as identified from the industry wide settlements system, We compared the estimated volume determined by the Group with gas or electricity billed to customers as identified from the groups benchmarks that the Group had also calculated using internal and billing system and various other adjustments: and external information and analysed and sought explanations for variances - assess the valuation to be ascribed to that revenue given the range of from that benchmark.
tariffs and location of the groups customers, location being one of the features of customer tariffs.
The group applies a price per unit which is Price dependent on a number of factors including location of customers and We also challenged the assumptions of price per unit by comparing type of billing arrangement to the estimate of volume of energy to be the price applied with historical and current trends and data.
Further, accrued at year end to arrive at the total estimated value of energy sales we assessed the overall consistency of the assumptions and of the inputs between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
to the calculation of estimated value of revenue.
We also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in this area.
Recoverability of retail receivables 0.8 billion Refer to page 86 Audit Committee statement, notes 3.1 and A1.2 accounting policy and notes 19 and 32 financial disclosures The groups billed energy revenues result in significant receivables with Our audit procedures included: testing the groups controls over the customers and, given the challenging economic climate and the increase receivables collection processes: considering the receipt of cash after the in energy prices over recent years, the risk of customer insolvency remains year-end: and testing the adequacy of the groups provisions against trade high, resulting in significant judgement being applied in the groups receivables by assessing the relevant assumptions, taking account of our assessment of the recoverability of these receivables.
own knowledge of recent collections experience in this industry and also historical data from the groups previous collections experience.
199 Financial Statements I In nd dep epen end den ent t aud audi it to or rs s r rep epo or rt t c co on nt tiinue nued d to the members of SSE plc The risk Our response Carrying value of certain non-current assets which aggregate to 12.1 bn Refer to page 86 Audit Committee statement, notes 3.1 and A1.7 accounting policy and notes 6, 13 and 14 financial disclosures The recovery of certain non-current assets, including power generation In this area our audit procedures included: challenging the groups assets, gas storage assets and gas reserves both included within property, calculation of value in use or fair value less costs to sell, as appropriate, plant and equipment, goodwill and development assets included within and the calculation of impairment charges during the year.
This included intangible assets, depends on achieving sufficiently profitable business in obtaining evidence to support key assumptions such as earnings and the future.
cashflow forecasts included in the impairment review for each CGU or asset tested on a stand-alone basis, and discount rate assumptions used As these non-current assets mainly relate to the production of electricity, by the directors.
We compared the Groups assumptions, where possible, the assessment of future profitability is dependent on many factors, to externally derived data or to our expectations based on our industry including the operating efficiency and the input costs of running the knowledge.
For example we compared the discount rate to those applied relevant plant relative to others and the expected electricity prices, by companies operating in a similar environment to the group and we all of which are impacted by political and economic factors in the UK compared earnings forecasts with budgets used within the business and globally.
for other purposes in assessing whether the Groups assessment was reasonable.
We also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures Assets are reviewed, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a wider in this area.
cash-generating unit CGU, for impairment using either a value in use or fair value less costs to sell model.
The outcome of these impairment reviews could vary significantly if different assumptions were applied in the model.
Therefore this is considered to be a significant audit risk.
Accounting for legal and other contractual claims Refer to page 86 Audit Committee statement, note 3 and A1.12 accounting policy and note 26 financial disclosures The groups operations expose it to the risk of litigation and contractual In this area our audit procedures included the following: we reviewed board claims particularly in relation to significant capital projects from third meeting minutes and considered claims raised against the group by third parties.
Due to the range of potential outcomes and the considerable parties, inspected relevant external legal advice received by the group in uncertainty around the resolution of various claims, the determination connection with such claims and obtained formal confirmation from the of the amount, if any, to be recorded in the financial statements as a groups external solicitors on the status of any legal claims with which the provision is inherently subjective and therefore this is considered to group is dealing.
We also considered the groups disclosures relating to be a significant audit risk.
provisions and or contingent liabilities for legal and other contractual claims.
Valuation of the groups pension obligations the group reflects a net defined benefit pension liability of 0.7 billion Refer to page 86 Audit Committee statement, note 3 and A1.10 accounting policy and note 30 financial disclosures The valuation of the groups pension obligations requires significant In this area our audit procedures included challenging the key judgment and estimation to be applied across numerous assumptions.
assumptions supporting the Groups retirement benefit obligations valuation, with input from our own actuarial specialists.
This included a The matter is considered to be a significant risk as small changes in the comparison of the discount and inflation rates and other assumptions assumptions can have a material financial impact on the results and used against benchmarks developed by our internal actuaries and similar financial position of the Group given the size of the deficit.
assumptions used by other groups with defined benefit pension schemes.
Further, we considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in the area of pension obligations.
Financial Statements Financial Statements 3 3.. O Ou ur a r ap pp pl li ic ca at ti io on o n of m f ma at te er ri ia al li it ty a y an nd a d an o n ov five er rv vi iew o ew of t f th he s e sc co op pe o e of o f ou ur a r au ud di it t In establishing the overall audit strategy, and performing the audit, materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 110 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before taxation, normalised to exclude exceptional items and certain remeasurements movements on derivatives as disclosed on the face of the income statement, of which it represents 7.3%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 5 million in addition to other identified misstatements we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the groups 57 reporting components, audits for group reporting purposes were performed at 12 components in the UK and Ireland.
These audits covered 99% of Group revenue, 97% of Group profit before tax: and 99% of Group total assets.
For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 10 million to 25 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 2 of the 12 components was performed by component auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited the component location in Reading, including to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone calls were also held with the partners of the component auditors and the majority of the others that were not physically visited.
On these calls, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
4 4.. O Ou ur o r op pi in ni io on o n on o n ot th he er m r ma at tt te er rs p s pre res sc cr ri ib be ed b d by t y th he C e Co om mp pa an ni ie es A s Ac ct 20 t 200 06 i 6 is u s un nm mo od di if fi ie ed d In our opinion: 1 - the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: - the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5 5.. W We h e ha av five n e no ot th hi in ng t g to re o rep po or rt i t in re n res sp pe ec ct o t of t f th he m e ma at tt te er rs o s on wh n whi ic ch w h we a e are re re req qu ui ire red t d to re o rep po or rt b t by e y ex xc ce ep pt ti io on n Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: - we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or - the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: - adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or - the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or - certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or - we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: - the directors statement, set out on page 121, in relation to going concern: - the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 72 to 89 relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 111, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
William Meredith Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 191 West George Street, Glasgow, G2 2LJ 19 May 2015 201 Financial Statements N No ote tes s 202 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
Financial Statements Financial Statements N No ote tes s 203 Financial Statements N No ote tes s 204 SSE plc Annual Report 2015
