INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO MEMBERS OF SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC VALUATION OF CONTRACTS FOR DIFFERENCE OUR OPINION ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL The risk: The Group has entered into derivative agreements referencing shares in publicly STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED listed companies.
The valuation of these contracts in the Financial Statements requires In our opinion the group Financial Statements: estimation by management.
These contracts have been identified as a risk due to give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 26 April 2015 and of their significant monetary value and because they are transactions outside the normal the Groups profit for the 52 week period then ended: operations of the Group.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Our response: Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, examining the terms of Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the contracts and agreeing the balances to confirmations from the counter party to assess have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the accounting treatment adopted, the basis of valuation and the disclosures made.
We and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
also engaged our own valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness of the valuations, which are based on both observable inputs and estimates and assumptions applied by OTHER MATTER management.
We have reported separately on the Financial Statements of Sports Direct International PLC for the period and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is The Groups accounting policy for derivative contracts is included in note 1 and disclosures described as having been audited.
relating to the contracts is found in note 27. WHO WE ARE REPORTING TO The Audit Committee identified valuation of contracts for difference as an area of This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with significance in its report on page 41, where the Audit Committee also describes how it Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken addressed this area.
so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state CARRYING VALUE OF INVENTORIES to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by The risk: The carrying value of inventories is stated net of provisions for obsolete or slow law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the moving inventory.
We have identified this risk because judgement is applied by managecompanys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we ment in assessing the amount of provision required to record inventory at the lower of cost have formed.
and net realisable value and because of the complexity of the provision calculation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED Our response: Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, testing the models Sports Direct International PLCs Financial Statements comprise the consolidated income used for mathematical accuracy, considering the appropriateness and consistency of the statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance underlying assumptions within the model and testing the selling price of inventory sold sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in 54 post period end.
equity and the related notes.
The Groups accounting policy on inventories and details of the judgements applied by the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable Directors in establishing the provision is included in note 1. law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Audit Committee identified carrying value of inventory as an area of significance in its OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK report on page 41, where the Committee also describes how it addressed this area.
In arriving at our opinions set out in this report, we highlight the following risks that are, in INTANGIBLES IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENT our judgement, likely to be most important to users understanding of our audit.
The risk: As more fully explained in note 15 the Directors are required to make an annual RISK OF FRAUD IN REVENUE RECOGNITION assessment to determine whether the value of goodwill of 156m, trademarks and The risk: The revenue recorded by the Group is one of the key determinants of Group licences of 19m and brands of 80m is impaired.
We have identified this risk because underlying earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA and the process for measuring and recognising impairment under IAS 36 is complex and is recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy and International Accounting requires judgement and because we identified potential indicators of impairment during Standard IAS 18: Revenue.
The majority of group revenue is recorded through Electronic our risk assessment procedures.
Point of Sale EPOS transactions, which is a key control used by the Group is to ensure Our response: Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, evaluating and sensitising all revenue is recorded.
Because of the pressures and incentives management may feel the assumptions used by the Directors, in particular those key assumptions relating to the to achieve planned targets and because of inherent risk in the recording of cash sales cash flow projections used by management for their assessment, including the discount we have identified fraud in revenue recognition as a significant audit risk requiring special rates, perpetuity growth rates and forecast gross margins.
We also reviewed the adequacy audit consideration.
of the disclosures on the sensitivity of key assumptions used in the assessment.
Our response: Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, testing manual journal The Groups accounting policy on impairment and details of the judgements and estimates entries posted to revenue for indication of fraudulent transactions, a controls test over the made by the Directors are included in note 1. completeness and accuracy of the EPOS data from tills through to head office, testing a sample of sales transactions to supporting documentation and re-performing an internet The Audit Committee identified intangibles impairment assessment as an area of sales receipts reconciliation in total to cash received.
We also analytically reviewed sales significance in its report on page 41, where the Committee also describes how it trends at an individual store level and by product type to identify variances to expectations addressed this area.
that would require further substantive testing.
The Groups accounting policy with respect to revenue recognition is included in note 1 and segmental analysis of sales is provided in note 4.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The tables below demonstrate the coverage of our audit procedures: OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT REVENUE MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We determined materiality for the audit of the group Fifinancial Statements as a whole to be 13.3m which is 3.5% of underlying earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
This benchmark is considered the most appropriate because, this is the metric against which the financial performance of the Group is measured both internally and externally.
We use a different level of materiality, performance materiality, to drive the extent of our testing and this was set at 75% of financial statement materiality for the audit of the group Financial Statements.
We also determine a lower level of specific materiality for certain areas such as directors remuneration and related party transactions.
We determined the threshold at which we communicated misstatements to the audit UNDERLYING EBITDA committee to be 665,000.
In addition we will communicate misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We are independent of the group in accordance with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those Ethical Standards.
55 Full Scope Specific procedures Analytical review We evaluated the description, design and operating effectiveness of controls over key financial systems identified as part of our risk assessment.
This included a review of the general IT controls, the accounts production process and the controls addressing critical accounting matters identified in our risk assessment.
We undertook a combination of OTHER REPORTING REQUIRED BY REGULATIONS controls and substantive testing on significant transactions, balances and disclosures, Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified.
the extent of which was based on various factors including our overall assessment of In our opinion: the control environment, the effectiveness of controls over individual systems and the the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial management of specific risks.
period for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and As set out on page 67 the Group has three operating segments, Sports Retail, Premium Lifestyle and Brands.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of the reporting the information given in the Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 37 to 43 units comprising the operating businesses within these segments.
with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work Statements.
that needed to be performed by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors operating under our instruction.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of EXCEPTION involvement we needed to have in their audit work at those reporting units to be able WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF THE FOLLOWING: to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, for our opinion on the Group Financial Statements as a whole.
We set materiality for the information in the Annual Report is: overseas component audits as 75% of the materiality for the group Financial Statements.
The reporting units vary significantly in size and we identified 5 reporting units that, in our materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or view, required a full scope audit of their financial information for group reporting purposes, apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge due to their size or risk characteristics.
In addition a further 27 reporting units are audited of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or to full scope for statutory reporting purposes, providing in total 87% coverage of the otherwise misleading.
Groups revenues and 84% of the Group underlying EBITDA.
Specific audit procedures were performed at a further 7 reporting units due to their size providing a further 8% coverage of the Groups revenues and 12% of the Group underlying EBITDA, with the remaining reporting units subject to analytical procedures.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO MEMBERS OF SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC IN PARTICULAR, WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT TO YOU IF: we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: or the Annual Report does not appropriately disclose those matters that were communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT TO YOU IF, IN OUR OPINION: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Report has not been prepared by the Company.
UNDER THE LISTING RULES, WE ARE REQUIRED TO REVIEW: the Directors statement, set out on page 36, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES: A description of the scope of an audit of Financial Statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
WHAT THE DIRECTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 53, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
WHAT WE ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Philip Westerman Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP 56 Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants London 16 July 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015
