Independent auditors report to the members of Stagecoach Group plc Company No.
SC100764 Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Stagecoach Group plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 April 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Stagecoach Group plcs financial statements comprise: the consolidated balance sheet statement of financial position as at 30 April 2015: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Stagecoach Group Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 8.7m which represents 5% of profit before tax of 173.1m prior to exceptional items.
In expressing our opinion over the Group financial statements, we audited the financial information of all reporting units for UK Rail and North America, and the 15 most significant reporting units by scale of UK Bus.
We also instructed and received reporting from component auditors in relation to Virgin Rail Group and Twin America.
We performed additional procedures at Group level including over the consolidation process, exceptional items, pensions, taxation, financial instruments, share based payments and presentation of the Group financial statements We gained an understanding of the key controls and processes that management has in place in relation to material balances and tested those that provided us with appropriate evidence for the purposes of our audit.
The reporting units where we conducted audit work accounted for 91% of Group profit before tax prior to exceptional items, 92% of Group Revenue and 73% of Group Total Assets.
Our audit focused on the following areas: Pension liabilities UK Bus and North America insurance provisions Provision for uncertain tax positions Carrying value of Twin America investment The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table on the next page.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
These areas of focus require significant management judgements and have a range of possible outcomes.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
SC100764 continued How our audit addressed the area of focus Area of focus Pension liabilities We obtained and read the independent actuarys report commissioned by management which The Group had a net pension deficit of 160.5m as at reported on the assumptions and methodology used to calculate the pension liabilities and 30 April 2015. compliance of managements approach with the relevant accounting standard.
We focused on the valuation of the pension liabilities We considered, as further described below and challenged the critical actuarial assumptions because of their significance to the overall financial used including the discount rate, life expectancies of scheme members and inflation rates and statements.
Relatively small movements in assumptions the judgements taken by management in applying these assumptions in calculating the applied can result in a material impact to the financial pension liabilities.
We compared the critical actuarial assumptions used by management to our own benchmark Valuation of pension liabilities is dependent upon range of companies.
The critical assumptions applied by management were within our judgement by management in determining and applying benchmark range.
appropriate assumptions used in the actuarial calculation.
We also checked that managements methodologies were consistently applied year to year.
These assumptions include life expectancies of scheme We checked the consistency of managements critical assumptions with recent triennial members, discount rate and inflation rates.
valuation reports and did not note any material exceptions.
Applying an appropriate methodology consistent with the We tested pension scheme membership information as this is a key input used in the overall requirements of accounting standards also requires pension liability calculations.
We agreed this data, on a sample basis, to underlying employee judgement.
We did not note any material exceptions in our testing.
Refer also to notes 6 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
UK Bus and North America insurance provisions We gained an understanding of the key controls and processes that management has in place to assess insurance claims and related provisions.
In North America we tested certain controls that Total insurance provisions as at 30 April 2015 amount to we determined provided us with appropriate audit evidence.
In the UK our audit approach was 150.7m, the majority of which relate to UK Bus and North substantive in nature.
We evaluated whether consistent methodology had been applied year on year in determining Although the Group uses insurance policies to protect the level of provisioning, including the methodology applied by the independent actuary for the against claims, the excesses under these policies that apply UK Bus provision.
We found the approach to be consistent.
to individual claims are payable by the Group and provided We used our team, with relevant actuarial experience, in the USA to independently recalculate for within the balance sheet.
These provisions are both North American insurance provisions based on underlying data provided by management.
tested controls over the accuracy of this data with no exceptions noted.
For the exposures which arise in North America, We compared the level of provisions against past experience of claims and actual settlements.
management calculates the provision in-house using the best available claims and settlement information at a We tested material adjustments to the actuarial provision ranges to check that the rationale for given point in time based on outcomes that are uncertain: any changes was appropriate and supported by underlying evidence.
and for the UK Bus business, the provision is calculated by For the UK Bus provision, we substantively tested a sample of year-end claims provisions by reference to an independent actuarial report comparing the provision with recent settlement history for similar cases and obtaining relevant commissioned by management.
Key areas of management judgement in determining We found that the managements assumptions were consistent with the prior year and, based these provisions, on which we focus, include the likelihood on the evidence obtained, we did not note any material exceptions based on our evaluation of of defending claims brought against the Group: assessing the available claims and settlement information.
the value of claims settlements: and assessing the impact of incidents notified by year end but not yet reported.
Management has developed its methodology and approach based on past experience and applying actuarial probabilities in its calculations, both of which we consider in addressing this area of focus.
Refer also to note 24 to the consolidated financial statements Provisions for uncertain tax positions We obtained reports showing the components of the tax provisions and used them to identify the most significant balances for testing.
The Group has a net consolidated tax liability of 63.2m as at 30 April 2015 which includes provisions in relation to We then applied various selection criteria, including identifying the largest balances, for testing.
uncertain tax positions, which were the focus of our audit.
As appropriate, we tested the provisions as follows: We focused on this area because of the judgemental understood and re-performed the provision calculation: nature of the balances and the inherent complexity of read relevant correspondence with tax authorities and considered the implications for our interpreting and implementing taxation rules and the risk audit: of challenge of certain of the Groups tax positions.
used our tax expertise and our knowledge and experience of developments in the relevant Refer also to notes 7 and 23 to the consolidated financial tax jurisdictions to consider the completeness and challenge the basis of the significant statements.
provision judgements made by management and in house tax specialists: and utilised our experience of similar situations elsewhere to independently assess the evidence supporting those tax provisions.
Based on our evaluation of the evidence obtained from the procedures described above, we did not note any material exceptions in our audit testing.
page 54 | Stagecoach Group plc 117804 STC Back PRINT 117804 STC Back V12 01 07 2015 14:30 Page 55 How our audit addressed the area of focus Area of focus Carrying value of the Twin America investment In considering managements impairment model for the carrying value of Twin America, we As described in note 31 to the consolidated financial tested and challenged key assumptions used in the model particularly in relation to assumed statements, the Group is subject to anti-trust litigation in future revenue and costs assumptions and the discount rate applied by management within its relation to its Twin America joint venture.
Although uncertainty over the expected settlement has We did this by comparing recent trading results to evaluate managements trading and cash been reduced as a consequence of developments in the flow assumptions used in their impairment model.
We compared managements growth litigation and agreements made in the US, the actions assumptions to independent economic growth forecasts.
required to resolve the litigation have contributed to We also applied sensitivities to managements forecasts to assess the impact on the carrying reduced revenue and profits.
There is a risk that the carrying value of the investment and considered the extent of change in those assumptions, individually value of the investment may be impaired as a result.
or together, that would cause the investment to be impaired.
Management has concluded that the carrying value is not We considered the methodology used by management within its impairment calculation for impaired at the balance sheet date, which is based on consistency with market practice.
judgement and involves modelling and projecting certain assumptions, the most significant of which are future revenue and costs growth.
In evaluating managements assessment we focused on these key assumptions.
How we tailored the audit scope The scope of our audit reflected the organisational structure of the Group, being 3 business areas: UK Bus, UK Rail and North America.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls and the areas of greatest audit risk.
As a result, we performed an audit of the financial information of all reporting units of UK Rail and North America and the 15 most significant reporting units by scale of UK Bus.
The audit work on all in scope reporting units, with the exception of Twin America and Virgin Rail Group, was performed directly by the Group engagement team.
For Twin America, the Group engagement team instructed component auditors from  US, identifying and explaining areas of focus for their work.
We also communicated with a firm from outside the  network of firms with respect to the audit of the complete financial information at the Virgin Rail Group joint venture.
The Group engagement team held meetings and calls with those component auditors to clarify and discuss their audit approach, materiality and reporting requirements.
In addition, we had meetings and calls with the component auditors as their audit work progressed so that we could effectively supervise, direct and understand the findings from their work.
This scope together with directed scope procedures over certain financial statement line items meant we performed audit work across the Group which accounted for 91% of Group profit before tax prior to exceptional items, 92% of Group Revenue and 73% of Group Total Assets.
In addition, the Group audit team performed audit procedures on the Group consolidation balances of East Coast Main Line Company Limited.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, including over the consolidation process, exceptional items, pensions, taxation, financial instruments, share based payments and presentation of the Group financial statements gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 8.7m 2014: 8.3m.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax of 173.1m prior to exceptional items being the charges related to the Twin America litigation and onerous property leases 2014: 5% of profit before tax of 166.7m prior to exceptional items.
Rationale for benchmark applied We based our materiality on this adjusted profit figure as we believe this is a measure used by shareholders in evaluating underlying business performance, and the exclusion of exceptional items provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 435,000 2014: 415,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
SC100764 continued Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out in Section 3.12, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 1 3 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate governance report set out in sections 4.13 and 4.14 of the Annual Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems and provided in section 3.11 about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or responsibility apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to the statement given by the Directors in Section 3.6, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance report arising from this Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and responsibility provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to section 5.4.
1 of the Annual Report, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
report arising from this responsibility Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
page 56 | Stagecoach Group plc 117804 STC Back PRINT 117804 STC Back V12 01 07 2015 14:30 Page 57 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Responsibility statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Stagecoach Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2015 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Graham McGregor Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Glasgow 24 June 2015 Stagecoach Group plc | page 57
