St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 100 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of St. Modwen Properties PLC In our opinion: Opinion on Financial Statements of the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the th St. Modwen Properties PLC Parent Companys affairs as at 30 November 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the related Group notes 1 to 22 and Parent Company notes A to P. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
As explained in the Accounting Policies note to the Group Financial Statements, in addition to Separate opinion in relation to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has IFRSs as issued by the IASB also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the Going concern and the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within the Directors Report and directors assessment of the the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within Risk Management.
principal risks that would threaten the solvency We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: orliquidity of the Group the directors confirmation on page 36 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 38 to 41 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement on page 97 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Financial Statements and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: and the directors explanation on page 37 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we Independence confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on Our assessment of risks of our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement material misstatement team.
In 2015, as part of the one-off property transactions risk we have also considered the risk around the correct accounting for the material prior period error, as disclosed in the Accounting Policies note to the Group Financial Statements.
Last year our auditors report included covenant compliance and liquidity disclosure risk, which is not separately included in our report this year, since the Groups headroom has significantly grown over the years with significantly improved trading results, and reduced gearing.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 101 245 4699 100164 165176 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We met with the third-party valuers, appointed by the directors, and assessed the Valuation of investment property competence, capabilities and objectivity of those external valuers.
Valuation of investment property is an area of We selected a sample of investment properties based on value, absolute and judgement which could materially affect the Financial percentage movement, and some random properties.
For this sample, we assessed Statements.
The Groups investment property and challenged the reasonableness of the significant judgements and assumptions portfolio, as detailed in note 8, together with the applied in the valuation model.
We assessed the completeness and accuracy of the data Groups share of joint ventures and associates is held provided by St. Modwen to the valuers for the purposes of their valuation exercise.
The Groups accounting policy is described on page 111 and further details of With the assistance of expert members of our audit team who are chartered surveyors, investment properties in note 2c.
Thedirectors we reviewed the significant assumptions in the valuation process, tested a sample of employ external valuers to assist in determining the properties by benchmarking against external appropriate property indices, understood fair value, who make a number of key estimates and the valuation methodology and the wider market analysis.
We reviewed the information assumptions, in particular assumptions in relation to provided by the valuers both in the meeting and contained in the detailed valuation market comparable yields and estimates in relation to reports: and we undertook our own research into the relevant markets to evaluate the future rental income increases or decreases, void reasonableness of the valuation inputs and the resulting fair values.
periods, occupancy rates, lease incentives, break clauses, lease lengths and purchaser costs.
Valuation of inventories We identified the various components of the Groups inventories and we sampled the balance of 183.7m and challenged managements appraisal documentation for a The Groups accounting policy on inventory is representative sample of 145m.
We have challenged whether the expected revenues disclosed on page 112 and further details of inventory in site appraisals have been updated to reflect the cost and yields seen on similar assets in note 12.
The Groups inventory balance of 183.7m in the investment property portfolio and challenged the key assumptions within the 2014: 201.0m includes assets for resale those appraisals to supporting evidence through test of the management forecasts and being actively marketed and properties being valuation reports.
Where a site has been appraised by management over a period developed with a view to sale.
oftime, we have also sought to understand the changes to assumptions over time.
Inaddition we have also: The Group has continued to use its own internal appraisal monitoring process during the year to assess reviewed a sample of marketed sites and post year-end sales prices to assess whether the net realisable value NRV of those properties held any inventory held is marketed below its valuation: within inventories through the preparation of challenged the lack of NRV write-downs identified in the current period and challenged appraisals for each site which calculate forecast whether evidence exists to reverse NRV write-downs recorded in prior periods revenues and costs.
through review of documentation supporting the status of the project and managements plans: and The risk here is that the NRV could be overstated by for a representative sample of income generating sites valued by the external valuers using inappropriate forecast revenue and forecast we assessed valuation yields used in appraisals for developments against yields used cost to complete.
on the investment property portfolio in line with the work set out above on valuation Moreover, management appraisals also include a of investment properties.
Our real estate experts assisted us in this review.
number of judgements, assumptions and estimates For a representative sample we tested properties which have been transferred from regarding future costs and revenues.
Given the investment property to inventories and from inventories to investment property during quantum of the inventories balance recorded by the the year based on the documents, supporting managements plans for future use of the Group in its Financial Statements, a misstatement in property, both to assess whether those transfers met the IFRS transfer criteria, and also this balance could have a material impact on the that the properties transferred to inventories are properly valued.
th Financial Statements as a whole.
At 30 November 2015, a limited proportion of inventory included on the Balance Sheet mainly income generating inventory is valued externally this involves significant judgements as demonstrated under valuation of investment property.
The risk also involves proper classification and valuation of inventory items transferred to and frominvestment properties on a change in use oftheproperty.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 102 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of St. Modwen Properties PLC continued We have analysed managements accounting judgement paper on the Swansea student One-off property transactions accommodation development accounting, which summarised the facts and background The Group has restated the way that it accounts for its of the transaction, as well as previous accounting treatment, possible alternative Swansea student accommodation development.
treatments and the reasons for a restatement.
We have audited managements calculation of the correction, through review of the supporting contracts, challenging the Previously the Group position focused on the details of the calculation and resulting disclosures made in the Financial Statements.
provision of construction services to an M&G fund and Wealso audited other property transactions on a representative sample basis to treated the contract as a development agreement with confirm there were no similar arrangements, which might have resulted in similar prior M&G.
During the current year, on revisiting the period errors.
underlying judgements and facts behind the development, it became clear that the Group continues to retain the risks and rewards of owning the entire property, with M&G receiving a fixed subject only to RPI return.
In its 2015 Financial Statements the Group has restated its 2014 comparatives in respect of this as is disclosed on pages 116 and 117, resulting in the reversal of 5.4m of development profits recognised in the year ended th 30 November 2014 and 2.1m recognised in the th year ended 30 November 2013: recognition of a finance lease obligation of 22.6m as at th 30 November 2014: the recognition of an asset of 22.7m, for the proportion of the property that had previously been derecognised and reflected as development expenditure on behalf of M&G.
This has been classified as an investment property.
Investment property revaluation gain of 8.4m was recognised in th the year ended 30 November 2014.
In addition, property acquisitions and disposals can be We assessed the NCGM transaction and evaluated the accounting treatment adopted significant and complex transactions for the Groups by management on initial recognition and on revaluation to fair value, as well as results in a given period.
The most significant added available alternative treatments.
We involved our real estate experts to review and value movement in the year was the recognition of the challenge valuation assumptions used by the external valuer in their valuation.
In our New Covent Garden Market NCGM site in Nine Elms, testing we: London, for the regeneration of the 57 acre site, which assessed the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the external valuers: achieved unconditional planning status in April 2015. reviewed the contractual conditions and ensured they were satisfied to render the The Group recognised the interest in land as NCGM contract unconditional: investment property when the contract became assessed whether the interest in land under the contract meets the definition of unconditional, with a liability recorded at initial investment property under IFRS, and when they should be recognised: recognition reflecting the obligation that was taken on in exchange for the land.
We have identified it as a tested the value of the initial recognition of the liability arising from the contract significant risk area for our annual audit, considering becoming unconditional including challenge of the key assumptions in the model: the risks around contractual terms, initial classification, reviewed the asset valuation methodology applied by the Groups external valuers as initial measurement and subsequent valuation of well as assumptions used: property the model for which uses many assumptions challenged the key assumptions in the model used in initial recognition of the liability and inputs, initial measurement of the liability, as well arising from the contract becoming unconditional: as alternative accounting treatments.
The NCGM value reviewed managements plans as part of the going concern analysis to ensure no th as at 30 November 2015 was 440m, which was held contradictory evidence exists as to the classification of the property interests as in a joint venture as investment property.
The results investment property on the grounds of uncertain future use: and of the joint venture were accounted for by the Group held a meeting attended by senior members of our core engagement team, our real under equity method.
estate experts, who are also chartered surveyors, and the external valuers of the Group.
During this meeting, the valuation basis and assumptions used were challenged by our experts and the audit team.
Our experts also reviewed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions used by the external valuers in the valuation of the NCGM property to illustrate how the property value responds to changes in those assumptions.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 103 245 4699 100164 165176 We tested the Group tax workings and considered the current and deferred tax Accounting for taxation implications of property acquisitions, disposals and valuation movements which As set out in the Groups use of estimates and occurred during the year.
We utilised our tax specialists to appraise the likely outcome judgements on pages 115 to 116, tax planning is often of uncertain tax positions, including reviewing any correspondence with HMRC and an integral part of transactions as the Group is a considered the adequacy of disclosures made in the Annual Report.
Further details of provision are disclosed in note 5.
Where tax planning has been challenged by HMRC, or management believe there is a risk of such challenge, provision is made for the best estimate of the potential exposure based on the information available at the Balance Sheet date.
We tested a representative sample of revenue recognised under IAS 11 during the year Revenue recognition to ensure the Group policy is in line with the standards.
We assessed whether the stage We have defined this risk for the Group as arising from of completion at the Balance Sheet date was reasonable by vouching the assessment of revenue recognition from development income under stage of completion to independent certification where possible or to managements IAS 11 Construction Contracts and IFRIC best estimate and contractual terms, recalculating any profit recognised and through Interpretation 15 Agreements for the Construction our audit of inventories assessing the costs to complete for reasonableness.
This is due primarily to the fact that judgement is required as to whether revenue can be recognised on a contract basis.
Judgement is also exercised in determining the costs to complete for each site and the stage of completion at the Balance Sheet date.
The significant risk in relation to revenue recognition also arises from rental income and property disposal transactions occurring near the period-end being recognised in the wrong period.
The Groups accounting policy on revenue is disclosed on pages 113 to 114 and further revenue details in note 1.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages61 and 62.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 9.0m 2014: 7.0m, which is approximately 1% of equity 2014: 1% of equity.
We consider the Groups equity to be the most appropriate benchmark for materiality, which is one of the main areas of interest for the investors in property companies.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.18m, 2014: 0.14m as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
Our Group audit scope is consistent with our scope in the previous year.
As the Group An overview of the scope of our audit auditors we are responsible for the majority of the Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures, notably KPI and VSM Uxbridge Group.
The subsidiaries and joint ventures forwhich the Group audit team are not auditors amount to 0.54% 2014: 0.23% of theGroups assets, 0.74% 2014: 0.06% of Group revenue and 0.69% 2014: 0.03% ofthe Groups profit before tax, as such, there are no component auditors reporting into Group.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 104 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of St. Modwen Properties PLC continued In our opinion: Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Matters on which we are required to report by exception we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns Adequacy of explanations received and adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or accountingrecords the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Corporate Governance Statement Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: AnnualReport materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that andauditor they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 105 245 4699 100164 165176 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Scope of the audit of the Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are Financial Statements free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Jonathan Dodworth Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Birmingham, UK st 1 February 2016
