SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Report on the financial statements Strategic Strategic Report.
Our opinion Independent In our opinion, SuperGroup Plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 25 April 2015 and of the Groups profit Our Our Gover Governance.
and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: Auditors the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Financial Statements.
the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Report.
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial to the members of SuperGroup Plc statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited SuperGroup Plcs financial statements comprise: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 25 April 2015: the Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group and Company statements of changes in equity: the Group and Company cash flow statements for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. www.
co. uk 89 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our audit approach Overview Independent Overall Group materiality: 3.2 million which represents 5% of underlying profit before tax.
We conducted an audit of the complete financial information of three reporting units: DKH Retail Limited, C-Retail Limited and SuperGroup Plc due to their size and risk characteristics.
Auditors Materiality In addition, we conducted the statutory audits of three reporting units located in the UK such that the audit work was complete prior to finalisation of the Group financial statements, as well as some specific procedures in the US, which included attending physical inventory observations at the Report.
Audit scope We also audited central activities, including the US business combination and goodwill impairment to the members of SuperGroup Plc testing.
US business combination, including classification of exceptional items arising from the business Areas combination.
of focus Reallocation of goodwill between cash generating units.
Inventory and accounts receivable provisions.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
co. uk 90 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Strategic Strategic Report.
We read the relevant legal documentation for the business US business combination, including classification Independent combination to understand each element of the transaction of exceptional items arising from the business and whether it related to an identifiable asset or liability, Our Our combination or whether it was an item that should be included in the Gover Governance.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 60, the critical statement of comprehensive income.
We found that each Auditors accounting estimates and judgements in note 2 to the accounts element of the transaction had been correctly classified.
on page 111, and note 33 for the US business combination.
Financial We also agreed amounts paid by the Group to bank Statements.
The US business combination with SD USA LLC SD USA statements, and understood the terms of amounts held back Report.
included the termination of an existing licence agreement allowing in escrow to confirm they formed part of the consideration SD USA exclusive rights to the Superdry brand in the USA, paid.
Canada and Mexico North America, and the acquisition of the to the members of SuperGroup Plc trade and certain assets from SD USA, comprising principally We assessed the competency of managements external expert 15 Superdry stores.
The fair value of consideration paid for the who prepared the valuation models for both the pre-existing acquisition of the trade and assets of SD USA and settlement of relationship and reacquired right by evaluating the professional the pre-existing relationship was 22.5m, with 1.7m indemnity qualifications and reputation of the expert.
We found them to be held in escrow for a period of up to one year.
Management used an external expert to prepare the models used to value both the pre-existing relationship and reacquired right intangible asset.
The principal matters that we focused on were: Termination of licence agreement Termination of licence agreement This existing licence was granted to SD USA in 2008 and was for We used our valuation knowledge to test the results of the a 30 year period, allowing exclusive rights to distribute Superdry experts model by understanding the appropriateness of products in North America.
the methodology used, benchmarking the discount rate to comparable organisations and data sources, benchmarking The termination of the licence agreement required judgement in the growth rate to long-term economic forecasts for the US, relation to determining the gain loss on settlement of the prere-performing the discounting of cash flows and testing for existing relationship.
A model was prepared by managements mathematical accuracy.
We found the assumptions adopted expert and the two key judgements involved in this valuation and methodology applied by the expert to be acceptable were: consistent with our knowledge of the business.
1. determining the unfavourable contract terms with reference to We tested managements assessment of unfavourable current market terms: and contract terms by considering recent and similar licence 2. forecasting cash flows for the remaining 23 year licence agreements for royalty rates to understand the amount period.
by which the US licence was unfavourable, and found the conclusions reached to be reasonable based on this The unfavourable element of the terminated licence agreement comparable information.
was included as an exceptional item.
This required judgement in Cash flow forecasts used in the valuation model were agreed determining if it met the Group accounting policy definition.
to Board approved papers for the first five years, and we understood and challenged assumptions in the forecasts such as phasing of forecast store openings and capital expenditure forecasts.
We considered the classification of the loss on the pre-existing relationship as exceptional, and determined that it met the Group accounting policy definition.
co. uk 91 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Acquisition of trade and assets Acquisition of trade and assets Independent The acquisition of the trade and assets involved judgements in We checked and found that the cash flow forecasts used in relation to the identification and valuation of assets and liabilities the model were the same as those used in the pre-existing to be recognised.
In particular: relationship model as above.
Auditors The valuation of the re-acquired right intangible asset required We used our valuation knowledge to test the results of the judgement to determine the estimated future cash flows under experts model as described above.
For the purpose of the remaining licence period.
evaluating this specific item we benchmarked the discount rate to comparable organisations and data sources and Report.
The valuation of inventory included judgement to determine the the growth rate to long term economic forecasts for the fair value with reference to the quality of that inventory based on US, re-performed the discounting of cash flows, assessing management experience, current retail prices, costs of selling to the members of SuperGroup Plc the appropriateness of contributory asset charges based and average margins.
on a reasonably expected return on the underlying asset, and tested for mathematical accuracy.
We found the The resulting bargain purchase recognised in the statement of assumptions adopted and methodology applied by the comprehensive income is calculated as the difference between expert to be consistent with our knowledge of the business.
the fair value of identified assets and liabilities acquired and the fair value of consideration paid, less the amount attributed to We evaluated the fair value ascribed to inventory by the pre-existing relationship.
challenging managements assessment of the quality of inventory by reference to the age of that inventory, agreeing Other exceptional items arising from the US acquisition primarily margins by sales channel to recent actual experience.
We relate to onerous leases and fixed asset impairments.
Judgement also challenged judgements formed around costs to sell was required to determine whether the recognition criteria had by reference to actual costs experienced in the same sales been met at the balance sheet date, and whether these items met channels elsewhere in the Group.
We found these to be the Groups accounting policy description for exceptional items.
Having obtained audit evidence over the valuation of assets and liabilities acquired, we re-performed managements calculation of the resulting bargain purchase recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
We considered the classification as exceptional, and determined that it met the Group accounting policy definition.
For onerous lease and asset impairment provisions included as exceptional we considered the classification of costs as exceptional and determined that they met the Group accounting policy.
We also tested these costs by agreeing them to appropriate evidence to evaluate the onerous element of the lease and amounts by which fixed assets were impaired.
co. uk 92 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Strategic Strategic Report.
We understood the rationale for reallocating goodwill between Reallocation of goodwill between cash generating units Independent CGUs given the structural changes in the business, and Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 60, the critical determined it to be consistent with the accounting framework.
accounting estimates and judgements in note 2 to the accounts Our Our on page 111, and note 19 for goodwill.
We traced the three year historic revenue data used in the Auditors reallocation of goodwill between the Retail and Wholesale Management has reassessed the cash generating units CGUs CGUs back to historical accounting records and found it to used in their goodwill impairment testing as a result of structural Financial be accurate.
We then recomputed the allocation of goodwill changes in the way in which the European business is operated.
The structural changes include the movement of the wholesale Report.
operations from Belgium to the UK and the restructuring of key management personnel.
to the members of SuperGroup Plc As a result, the goodwill that arose on the acquisition of SuperGroup Europe SGE in 2011 has been reallocated between two CGUs being Retail and Wholesale based on a three year historic average of retail and wholesale sales made by SGE.
This allocation required judgement to determine the methodology upon which the allocation should take place.
We evaluated the slow moving and obsolete inventory Inventory and accounts receivable provisions provision by testing the season ageing of inventory at the Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 60, the critical balance sheet date and then recalculating the provision accounting estimates and judgements in note 2 to the accounts required with reference to the Group policy.
We also on page 111, note 22 for inventory and note 23 for accounts challenged the Group policy for provision rates by reference to receivable.
historic evidence of selling inventory below cost and or actual The valuation of inventory involves judgement in recording inventory write downs.
We found that the provision rates were provisions for slow moving or obsolete inventory.
The Group consistent with the evidence obtained as to past activity, and accounting policy is based upon the ageing of inventory by appropriately applied.
season, with a percentage provision applied which reflects the We evaluated the provision for accounts receivable balances actual historic rate of losses made.
In addition, specific provisions by testing the ageing of amounts due at the balance sheet are made for known product quality issues.
This requires date to understand and quantify the potential risk in overdue management judgement to assess the quality of product and the balances.
Recoverability was then tested by vouching cash expected realisable value.
receipts after the year end date.
For amounts that were past Accounts receivable provisions involve judgement in determining due and not yet recovered we understood and challenged the recoverability of receivables.
Provisions are made for specific the provision requirements with reference to that customers known issues such as counterparty risk.
historic payment performance, any credit insurance or bank guarantees in place, and the wider macro-economic situation.
We found that the provisions recorded were consistent with the evidence obtained.
co. uk 93 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the Independent industry in which the Group operates.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of a number of reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses within three segments Retail, Wholesale and Central Cost plus its centralised functions.
Auditors In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we identified three reporting units: DKH Retail Limited, C-Retail Limited and SuperGroup Plc the Company, which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information both due to their size and risk characteristics.
These reporting units were audited by the Group engagement team.
In addition, we also conducted the statutory audits of three non-significant reporting units located in the UK such that the audit work was complete prior to finalisation of the Group financial statements.
The audits of three further reporting units located in Belgium to the members of SuperGroup Plc were conducted by the PwC network firm in Belgium.
We also conducted specified procedures on the acquired US business including attending physical inventory observations at the acquisition date.
The audits of these nine reporting units, together with additional procedures performed on centralised functions and at the Group level, including audit procedures over the consolidation and impairment testing and in respect of accounting matters arising in relation to the US acquisition, as described in our area of focus above, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 3.2 million 2014: 3.0 million.
How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark We believe that underlying profit before tax is the key measure used by the shareholders as a applied body in assessing the Groups performance.
This benchmark, which excludes exceptional and remeasurement items, provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality by eliminating the non-recurring and or disproportionate impact of these items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.1 million 2014: 0.1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
co. uk 94 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Going concern Strategic Strategic Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 57, in relation to going concern.
have nothing to report having performed our review.
Independent As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using Our Our the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources Gover Governance.
to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were Auditors signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Financial However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Statements.
Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting to the members of SuperGroup Plc Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 87, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as to report arising from this a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for responsibility.
members to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 58 to 62, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the We have no exceptions Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters to report arising from this communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
co. uk 95 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Independent Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Auditors branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
to the members of SuperGroup Plc Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
co. uk 96 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 What an audit of financial statements involves Strategic Strategic An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Report.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Independent assessment of: Our Our whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently Gover Governance.
applied and adequately disclosed: Auditors the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and Financial Statements.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
to the members of SuperGroup Plc We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Lyon BSc FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 8 July 2015 www.
