Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Synergy Health plc only key judgemental areas that our audit is Wethen applied a range of sensitivities to Opinions and conclusions arising from concentrated on.
these key inputs, increase the discount rate, our audit reducing medium term revenue growth 1 Our opinion on the financial statements Our response Our audit procedures assumptions and the long term growth rates isunmodified included evaluating the controls relating and assessing the level of available headroom We have audited the financial statements of tothe preparation and approval of the as a consequence of reasonable changes to Synergy Health plc for the year ended 29 groups budgeting process upon which these key inputs.
March 2015 set out on pages 66 to 110. theforecasts are based.
We critically Inour opinion: assessed the budgets in order to obtain We have also assessed whether the groups anunderstanding of the risks inherent The financial statements give a true and disclosures about the sensitivity of the within them.
We considered the historical fair view of the state of the Groups and outcome of the impairment assessment to accuracy of forecasts in the past two years ofthe Companys affairs as at 29 March changes in key assumptions reflected our and considered the extent to which trading 2015 and of the Groups profit for the own sensitivity analysis.
conditions in both the Dutch linen and yearthen ended: Chinese sterilisation businesses in 2014 Identification of items as non-recurring The Group financial statements have and 2015 were assumed to continue in 5,812,000 beenproperly prepared in accordance theforecast period.
We challenged Refer to page 40 Audit Committee Report, with International Financial Reporting theassumptions in the budgets with page 71 accounting policy and page 77 Standards as adopted by the European referenceto historical trends, and financial disclosures.
Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : ourownexpectations based on our knowledge of the business and sector.
The risk The Group Income Statement The Company financial statements have includes a column that highlights items been properly prepared in accordance In the Dutch linen business we considered that are considered to be non-recurring with UK Accounting Standards: and the key inputs to be forecast revenue innature.
These items are disclosed growth, future operating profit margin and the financial statements have been separately to enable the presentation of an thediscount rate.
With respect to forecast prepared in accordance with the adjusted profit profit before amortisation revenue growth and future operating profit requirements of the Companies Act of acquired intangibles and non-recurring margin we have considered the extent 2006and, as regards the Group financial items for the year.
Adjusted profit is a key towhich the difficult trading conditions statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
performance indicator for the Group.
The experienced in 2014 and 2015 are assumed assessment as to whether income or 2 Our assessment of risks of material to continue in the forecast period and wehave expense should be i identified and ii misstatement challenged Dutch operational management recognised as non-recurring is a subjective In arriving at our audit opinion above on the over their plans to improve future operating and judgmental area, and there is a risk Group financial statements the risks of margin over the forecast period.
We have that costs and or income are not material misstatement that had the greatest considered longer term future growth appropriately classified.
effect on our audit were as follows: assumptions against externally published sources such as OECD forecasts.
With Our response Our audit procedures Impairment of assets in the Netherlands respect to the discount rate we utilised our included critically assessing the nature linen services business and Chinese own valuation specialist to provide a view of ofthe items presented as non-recurring sterilisation business.
We then applied and challenging the rationale for their Refer to page 39 Audit Committee report, a range of sensitivities to these key inputs, classification as non-recurring as well as page 73 accounting policy and page 81 increasing the discount rate, reducing both consideration of whether other items of financial disclosures.
future revenue and operating profit margin income or expenditure were appropriately The risk The Group has significant and assessing the level of available headroom omitted.
We challenged the Group Finance property, plant and equipment across as a consequence of reasonable changes Director and Group Financial Controller on anumber of different businesses.
Any healthcare linen services business in the individually material items classified as Netherlands continues to face challenging In the Chinese sterilisation business we non-recurring have been agreed to economic and market conditions with considered the key inputs to be forecast supporting documentation available to significant pressure on selling price and revenue growth in years 2-3, long term validate the quantum and classification of operating profit margin.
The Chinese growthrate and the discount rate applied.
We evaluated the sterilisation business has recorded With respect to validating the accuracy of completeness of those items identified as significant growth this year but remains forecast revenue growth we have compared non-recurring by comparing to movements inan early stage of its lifecycle and organic the level of achieved growth against the in provisions, matters identified through growth to this point has been slower than business plan for the last two years and review of board meeting minutes, anticipated.
There is a risk that the book helddiscussions with the Regional Finance component group reporting and inquiries value of the assets in these businesses Director responsible for creation of these with both those charged with governance exceeds their recoverable amount as budgets to understand their view of the key and group financial management around defined in accounting standards and inputs and sensitivities.
With respect to the litigation and claims.
should therefore be written down in value long term growth rate we have considered We also assessed whether the groups impaired.
Due to the inherent uncertainty thegrowth rates applied against externally disclosures about non-recurring items involved in forecasting and discounting published sources such as OECD long-term reflected our own understanding of future cash flows, which are the basis of forecasts.
With respect to the discount rate theseamounts.
the recoverable amount, this is one of the weutilised our valuation specialist to provide aview of the applicable discount rate.
63 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Synergy Health plc only continued Recognition of accounting entries for the uncorrected identified misstatements 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed acquisition of Bioster exceeding 125,000, in addition to other by the Companies Act 2006 is Refer to page 40 Audit Committee Report, identified misstatements that warranted unmodified page 71 accounting policy and page 92 reporting on qualitative grounds.
In our opinion: financial disclosures.
Of the groups sixty-two reporting The part of the Directors Remuneration The risk During the year, the Group components, we subject thirty-one to audits Report to be audited has been properly purchased the share capital of Bioster SpA for group reporting purposes and one to prepared in accordance with the and associated companies.
Accounting specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The Companies Act 2006: standards dictate that assets and liabilities latter was not individually financially significant The information given in the Strategic acquired in a business combination are enough to require an audit for group reporting Report and Directors Report for the measured at their fair value.
This includes purposes, but did present specific individual financial year for which the financial a requirement to identify and recognise risks that needed to be addressed or to statements are prepared is consistent intangible assets that may not have been provide further audit coverage over the total withthe financial statements: and previously recognised by the acquired population.
These Group procedures covered business, and to recognise assets and 86% of total Group revenue: 92% of Group Information given in the corporate liabilities in the acquired balance sheet at profit before taxation: and 84% of total governance statement set out on page fair value.
The identification and valuation Groupassets.
37with respect to internal control and of the acquired tangible and intangible riskmanagement systems in relation to The remaining 14% of total Group revenue, assets and liabilities as separate items from financial reporting processes and about 8% of Group profit before taxation and 16% goodwill can have a material impact on the share capital structures is consistent with of total Group assets is represented by financial statements and is an area that the financial statements.
thirtyreporting components, none of which involves judgment.
individually represented more than 15% 5 We have nothing to report in respect of ofany of total Group revenue, Group profit Our response Our audit procedures the matters on which we are required to before tax, or total Group assets.
The included an assessment of the acquisition report by exception majorityof these components are non-trading accounting entries presented by the Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required companies.
For these remaining components, Group, evaluating the procedures applied to report to you if, based on the knowledge we we performed analysis at an aggregated to identify and value additional assets and acquired during our audit, we have identified group level to re-examine our assessment liabilities on acquisition, agreeing key items other information in the Annual Report that thatthere were no significant risks of back to underlying data and challenging contains a material inconsistency with either materialmisstatement within these.
We inspected external that knowledge or the financial statements, duediligence reports performed on the amaterial misstatement of fact, or that is The Group audit team instructed component acquired company for any matters raised otherwise misleading.
auditors as to the significant areas to be that had not been considered when covered, including the relevant risks detailed In particular, we are required to report to assessing fair values.
We also inspected above and the information to be reported back.
youif: the sale and purchase agreement for The Group audit team approved component anyterms and conditions in relation to We have identified material inconsistencies materiality which was set at 1.5 million, having theacquisition which would give rise between the knowledge we acquired regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the todeferred or contingent consideration during our audit and the Directors Group across the components.
The work on and assessed whether Groups calculation statement that they consider that the twenty-two of the thirty-one components reflected such terms.
We assessed Annual Report and financial statements subject to audits for group reporting purposes theappropriateness of the valuation taken as a whole is fair, balanced and was performed by component auditors and techniques used to value the intangible understandable and provides the therest by the Group team.
assets and utilised our valuation specialist information necessary for shareholders to to evaluate the discount rate applied where The Group audit team visited component assess the Groups performance, business fair value is estimated based on a forecast locations in the UK, USA and Netherlands model and strategy: or future cash flows valuation model.
and attended in person the audit completion The section of the Annual Report meetings at each of these locations.
We also considered whether the groups describing the work of the Group Audit TheGroup audit team also attended the disclosures about the acquisition of Bioster Committee does not appropriately completion meetings for Germany, France, within the financial statements reflected addressmatters communicated by Switzerland, Italy, Ireland, Malaysia and ouranalysis.
We held telephone discussions with the other component audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 3 Our application of materiality and an teams during the year as we felt appropriate.
required to report to you if, in our opinion: overview of the scope of our audit At these visits and meetings, the findings The materiality for the group financial Adequate accounting records have not reported to the Group audit team were statements as a whole was set at 2.5 million.
been kept by the Company, or returns discussed in more detail, and any further This has been determined with reference to a adequate for our audit have not been work required by the Group audit team was benchmark of group profit before taxation of received from branches not visited by then performed by the component auditor.
We report to the us:or Audit Committee any corrected or 64 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or A corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required toreview: The Directors statement, set out on page 60, in relation to going concern: and The part of the corporate governance statement on pages 29-38 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 62, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and forbeing satisfied that they give a true and fairview.
A description of the scope of an auditof financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Tim Widdas Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants St Nicholas House Park Row Nottingham NG1 6FQ 2 June 2015 65 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
