49 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared inaccordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice:and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financialstatements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group and Parent Company balance sheets, the Group cash flow statement, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Parent Company reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds and the related notes 1 to 28.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements isapplicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying as issued by the IASB with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued bytheIASB.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the Chief Financial Officers Statement that the Group is agoingconcern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
50 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition We tested the operating effectiveness of automated and non-automated controls over the customer billing systems.
Our tests assessed the controls Revenue represents a material balance consisting inplace to ensure all services supplied to customers are input into and ofa high volume of individually low value processed through the billing systems.
transactions and we have identified the following types of transactions and assertions related to This enabled us to obtain assurance over billing systems accounting for over95% revenue recognition which give rise to key risks: of total Group revenue.
We subsequently applied a combination of substantive analytical review procedures and tests of detail to obtain assurance over the the completeness of revenue recorded as a result validity and completeness of the reported output of these systems.
of the reliance on output of the billing systems: We performed substantive testing on a sample of non-systematic adjustments the accuracy and completeness of revenue which are outside of the normal billing process and therefore carry higher levels recognised on transactions which are outside the of management judgement.
These included revenue deferrals and the write-back normal billing process, which by their nature carry to the income statement of credits applied to customer accounts.
a higher level of management judgement: and We have assessed the appropriateness of this policy and also performed the appropriateness of the allocation of the total substantive testing to confirm the fair value of elements delivered up front transaction value between multiple elements in isinexcess of the amounts billable and therefore appropriate application abundled transaction.
The Groups policy with oftheiraccounting policy.
respect to bundled transactions is to limit the revenue recognised for delivered elements to the amounts billed, with promotional credits deferred over the contractual term.
See note 1 in the financial statements for revenue recognition policy.
Supplier rebates We held discussions with the relationship managers for the major suppliers across the Group and reviewed supplier accounts to identify significant credits As disclosed in note 1 of the financial statements, from suppliers.
For significant credit items we reviewed the relevant contracts the Group periodically receives commercial income, to understand the terms and conditions associated with the transaction and bonuses or other rebates from suppliers.
There is associated commercial rationale.
Based on our review of the contracts, we have arisk that these are incorrectly accounted for or challenged managements recognition of the accounting treatment of credits recognised in the wrong accounting period.
recognised from suppliers and, where the credits were significant, held discussions with the counterparty to confirm our understanding of the commercial arrangement.
Disclosure of exceptional items and the presentation In addition to understanding the composition of exceptional items and agreeing of adjusted measures in the financial statements a sample of items to supporting documentation, we have challenged managements rationale for the presentation of items within the income statement as exceptional, The disclosure of exceptional items and their particularly around the areas of higher judgment such as ladder pricing to assess presentation on the face of the income statement if the exceptional credit is virtually certain and regarding dual running and customer represents an audit risk given the level of management migration costs to determine whether the costs recognised as exceptional meet judgement involved.
Areas of particular audit focus the criteria of the accounting policy for such items defined by the Group within in the current year are exceptional costs recognised note 9.
This includes assessing the incremental nature of the costs, the extent to in relation to amounts recognisable in respect of the which the costs are non-recurring, whether they are specific to individual projects historic termination charges settlement see note 9, and considering whether they should be classified as part of underlying operations.
operating efficiencies, dual running costs, asset impairments and customer migration costs all of Regarding the VAT disputes, we have reviewed correspondence with HMRC which we deem to carry a higher level of judgement.
andwith the support of our internal VAT specialists we have critically challenged managements assessment of the likelihood of success and the completeness Furthermore, the Group is challenging HMRCs of their provisioning and disclosure.
interpretation of the VAT Prompt Payment Discount rules.
Determining the likely outcome of any such Our work has also included a review, on a sample basis, of items included within disputes, and therefore required provisions, the income statement to identify income and expenses which may be exceptional isinherently uncertain.
by nature but not separately identified.
This has included consideration of credit balances within underlying results.
The nature of these costs has been defined in note 9 to the accounts.
51 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Acquisition accounting We have considered managements assessment that the acquired assets represent a business combination under IFRS3 and challenged managements There have been three significant acquisitions in inputs and assumptions used in determining the valuation and completeness theyear as described in note 13 which included two of the acquired intangible assets.
This challenge specifically included the customer base acquisitions and a share purchase consideration of the forecast cash flows expected to be generated by the acquisition with material fair value adjustments.
acquired assets, the anticipated rate of churn within the underlying customer Thetransactions give rise to cumulative goodwill base and forecast revenue and cost metrics.
We have also challenged the of 11m and other intangibles assets of 43m.
The appropriateness of the useful economic life attributed to the assets.
accounting treatment for these acquisitions gives rise to significant judgement around the fair value adjustments, including the valuation of intangible assets recognised, which include determining appropriate inputs and assumptions used in the underlying valuations.
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets We challenged managements assumptions used in the impairment model for goodwill and intangible assets, including the determination of cash-generating As disclosed in note 11 to the financial statements units, the forecast cash flow projections for each cash-generating unit and the the carrying value of goodwill on the Group balance discount rates applied.
In making this assessment of the cash flow projections sheet as at 31 March 2015 is 490m.
Management is we assessed historical forecasting accuracy and compared forecast profit required to undertake an impairment review annually margins to historical margins and benchmarked the discount rate and growth or, if more frequent, whenever there is an indication rates employed to available market data.
We critically assessed managements that the asset may be impaired.
This review incorporates position as to whether or not a reasonably possible change to key operating judgements based on assumptions of future cash assumptions could result in an impairment.
In doing so we considered the flows, including assumptions around revenue sensitivity of the asset valuations to these assumptions, in particular changes to growth, margins and forecast cash flows, the the long term growth rate assumed and the growth of the TV and Fibre customer selection of appropriate discount rates and the bases.
We used our specialist team to determine whether the discount rate used assessment of the Groups cash-generating units.
in the calculations was appropriate.
We also considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures set out in note 11 to the accounts.
Treatment and presentation of tax balances We have reviewed correspondence with HMRC supporting the availability oftheVNL losses.
With the use of our tax specialist team we have challenged The accounting treatment and presentation of the managements forecasts of future taxable profits to determine the appropriate measurement of deferred tax assets relating to losses quantum of VNL losses to recognise as a deferred tax asset.
acquired in Video Networks VNL of 29m which have been disclosed within note 7 is a judgemental area.
Specifically, the quantum of losses to be recognised as a deferred tax asset is dependent onfuture profitability and the judgements within and reliance on management forecasts.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed onpage 27.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not toexpress an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any oftherisks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
52 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Our application We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable ofmateriality that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
Weuse materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 6m 2014: 6m, which is approximately 7.3% 2014: 8.2% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
Our materiality was set by blending revenue and profit metrics.
This approach was taken to make allowance for the impact of subscriber acquisition costs related to TV customers which has reduced current year earnings.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 120,000 2014: 120,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that weidentified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including ofour audit group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the TalkTalk Consumer and TalkTalk Business operating units.
Each of these was subject to a full audit and represent over 95% 2014: over 95% of the Groups total assets and revenues.
Specific focused audit work was performed over Group functions, including those covering treasury and taxation.
Our audit work at each division was executed at levels ofmateriality which were lower than Group materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion: prescribed by the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in Companies Act 2006 accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which thefinancial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: received and accounting we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or records adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our information in the opinion, information in the Annual Report is: AnnualReport materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report isfair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
53 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Respective responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for of Directors and auditor thepreparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Ourresponsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us tocomply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Sharon Thorne FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 13 May 2015
