STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC Report on the Group financial The financial reporting framework that has The scope of our audit and our areas statements been applied in the preparation of the Group of focus financial statements is applicable law and We conducted our audit in accordance with Our opinion IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
International Standards on Auditing UK and In our opinion, Tate & Lyle PLCs Group Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
financial statements the Group financial Our audit approach statements defined below: Overview We designed our audit by determining give a true and fair view of the state of the materiality and assessing the risks of material Materiality Groups affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of its Overall Group materiality: 10 million which misstatement in the Group financial statements.
profit and cash flows for the year then ended: In particular, we looked at where the Directors represents 5% of profit before tax adding have been properly prepared in accordance back the share of tax of joint ventures and made subjective judgements, for example in with International Financial Reporting respect of significant accounting estimates that associates and exceptional items, as defined Standards IFRSs as adopted by the in Note 2 in the Group financial statements.
involved making assumptions and considering European Union: and future events that are inherently uncertain.
Audit scope have been prepared in accordance with the As in all of our audits, we also addressed the Our audit included full-scope audits of six requirements of the Companies Act 2006 risk of management override of internal controls, reporting components Tate & Lyle PLC, and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
including evaluating whether there was evidence Tate & Lyle International Finance, the US of bias by the directors that represented a risk Bulk Ingredients business, the US Speciality What we have audited of material misstatement due to fraud.
Food Ingredients business, Sucralose The Group financial statements comprise: The risks of material misstatement that had Singapore and Food Systems Germany the consolidated statement of financial the greatest effect on our audit, including the with specified audit procedures performed position as at 31 March 2015: allocation of our resources and effort, are at a further 13 reporting components.
the consolidated income statement and identified as areas of focus in the table below.
Taken together, the components at which consolidated statement of comprehensive We have also set out how we tailored our audit audit work was performed accounted for income for the year then ended: to address these specific areas in order to 87% of consolidated sales and 66% of the consolidated statement of cash flows provide an opinion on the Group financial consolidated profit before tax and covered for the year then ended: statements as a whole, and any comments we all components that individually contributed the consolidated statement of changes make on the results of our procedures should more than 15% of sales and profit before tax.
in equity for the year then ended: and be read in this context.
This is not a complete the notes to the consolidated financial Areas of focus list of all risks identified by our audit.
Commodity risk statements, which include a summary For each area of focus below, where of significant accounting policies and other SAP implementation Uncertain tax positions appropriate, we evaluated the design and explanatory information.
tested the operating effectiveness of key Retirement benefit obligations Impairment of SPLENDA Sucralose assets internal controls over financial reporting, including testing the operation of IT systems from which financial information is generated.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Commodity risk Refer to Notes 3, 18 and 19 in the Group financial We understood and evaluated managements process for managing the statements.
commodity price risk inherent within its commodity positions, and compared it to managements underlying risk management and accounting policy.
No matters The Groups accounting policy for its US business is to mark were identified that would indicate the risk management and accounting policies to market its commodity positions at each balance sheet are not being followed.
date, including forward sales and purchase contracts with We obtained managements forward pricing sheet for all commodities used in the customers and grain suppliers, and physical inventory, in line with common industry practice.
The Group manages fair value calculations.
For those commodities with an actively traded market, we assessed the consistency of the forward prices with those published by the Chicago the commodity price risk on sales and purchase contracts by taking certain long and short positions of physical Mercantile Exchange or similar exchange.
For those commodities where an active futures market does not exist principally co-products and for the basis adjustments contracts, and through the use of derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options contracts.
This made, we have understood and challenged managements methodology for determining these valuations, including the inputs and assumptions used.
To further is an area of focus due to the complexity of the calculations and the judgement involved in the valuation of certain assess the reasonableness of the estimated forward prices, we have performed commodities, most notably co-products that do not have an trend analyses against similar market or exchange traded commodities and actively traded futures market.
These co-products include compared certain ratios of co-product prices against historical ratios.
In addition to corn gluten feed, corn gluten meal and corn oil.
Additionally, testing the forward price estimates, we have audited the calculations of the fair value basis adjustments are made to certain commodity and associated unrealised gains and losses on the commodity-based positions.
We valuations to reflect market conditions, which necessitate found that managements forward price estimates and the calculation of fair value further management judgement.
of these contract positions were reasonable and supported by market observable data, where appropriate.
Where management had calculated values by reference The fair values of commodities pricing contracts were to non-market observable data, we found that these were within acceptable ranges.
assets of 58 million and liabilities of 25 million.
Where derivative financial instruments, including futures and options contracts with third-party brokers were used to manage the commodity price risk, we independently confirmed these positions with the brokerage houses, and recalculated the confirmed fair value of the positions held.
We found that the fair values of these derivative financial instruments were supported by these confirmations and recalculations.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus SAP implementation The Group continues to rationalise and simplify its finance We understood and evaluated managements project governance and data processes.
As part of this, the Group has designed and migration plan, and validated certain controls over the migration and go-live developed a common SAP system.
During the current year, processes, and found these to be operating effectively.
We understood and this common system was implemented in the US Bulk evaluated IT general controls and segregation of duties within the new Ingredients and US Speciality Food Ingredients businesses.
While IT general controls were largely operating effectively, we did These represent the two largest components of the not place reliance on automated controls in respect of managing segregation of Group audit.
duties risks, and instead we validated managements mitigating manual controls which we found to be operating effectively.
The implementation introduced heightened risk as controls and processes that have been established and embedded In addition to the validation of managements controls we also independently verified the migration of data for a sample of general ledger, sub-level and over a number of years were updated and migrated into the new environment.
Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any material unresolved matters in respect of the system implementation that There was an increased risk of breakdown in internal had an impact on the Group financial statements.
financial controls during the transition and an increased risk of inaccurate or incomplete migration of financial data, which in turn increased the risk of material misstatements in the Group financial statements.
Uncertain tax positions Refer to Notes 3, 10 and 28 in the Group financial statements.
Using our specialist tax knowledge, we evaluated and challenged managements judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order The nature of the Groups multinational and cross-border to assess the adequacy of the Groups tax provisions.
This included obtaining a operations exposes the Group to complicated tax detailed understanding of the Groups key technical tax matters and risks related regulations.
This requires management to exercise to business and legislative developments.
judgement in determining the appropriate amount of tax to provide in a number of jurisdictions.
In particular, certain We recalculated managements valuations of direct tax provisions and financing arrangements that the Group has entered into, determined whether the calculations were in line with the Groups methodology while not uncommon or unduly aggressive, have been and principles and whether they had been applied consistently with previous previously subject to enquiry by tax authorities.
We also examined managements ongoing analysis of its financing managements estimates of the likely result of enquiries by arrangements and considered recent correspondence with the tax authorities.
tax authorities could materially affect the quantum of tax From the evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning to be at provisions recognised in the Group financial statements.
the prudent end of an acceptable range.
Retirement benefit obligations Refer to Notes 3 and 29 in the Group financial statements.
We understood and evaluated the assumptions used by the Groups actuaries and management in calculating the retirement benefit obligations for the defined The Group has significant retirement benefit obligations in benefit pension plans in the UK and the US, and the unfunded retirement medical the UK and the US, including unfunded retirement medical scheme in the US.
At 31March 2015 the present value of We challenged each of the actuarial assumptions by comparing these to these obligations was 1,761 million 2014 1,525 million.
benchmark ranges based on market conditions and expectations at 31March These obligations were determined based on a number of 2015.
In each case we found that the actuarial assumption used was reasonable, actuarial assumptions and calculations, which were subject sat within our acceptable range, and was applied consistently with the prior year.
to significant judgement and estimate.
Changes in these In addition, we independently confirmed the pension assets held by the UK and assumptions can have a material impact on the quantum US schemes with third-party investment custodians and fund managers.
We did of obligations recognised.
not identify any exceptions in this work.
Carrying value of SPLENDA Sucralose assets Refer to Notes 6 and 37 in the Group financial statements.
Leveraging our specialist valuations knowledge, we obtained the Groups impairment analysis and tested the reasonableness of key assumptions, including As part of the re-focus and restructure of its SPLENDA anticipated future pricing within the revenue assumption, the terminal growth rate Sucralose business, the Group took the decision to write-off applied and the determination of the discount rate.
We challenged management the assets of its Singapore facility in advance of the to substantiate its assumptions, including considering the output of external anticipated closure of this facility in Spring 2016.
At the same advice the Group took as part of its strategic review of the SPLENDA Sucralose time, given the continued competitive pricing pressure on business.
this business, the Group undertook an impairment assessment of the carrying value of the SPLENDA We obtained and evaluated managements sensitivity analyses to ascertain the Sucralose assets at McIntosh, which had a carrying value of impact of reasonably possible changes and we performed our own independent 103 million at 31 March 2015, which principally comprises sensitivity calculations to quantify the downside changes to managements model property, plant and equipment and working capital.
required to result in impairment.
We focused on this area, as the impairment review contains As a result of our work, we determined that the decision to fully write-off the a number of significant judgements and estimates, of which Singapore facility at 31 March 2015 was appropriate and that managements the most significant is the anticipated future pricing the conclusion that the McIntosh facility was not impaired was also appropriate.
We Group will achieve on sales of SPLENDA Sucralose.
found that this judgement was supported by reasonable assumptions that would require significant downside changes before any impairment was necessary.
82 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION How we tailored the audit scope In identifying these areas of focus, we tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed sufficient work to be able to issue an opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is primarily structured across two divisions: Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients, with a central support function.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of the Groups reporting units, spread across these two divisions, which comprise the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions covering more than 250 individual components.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under our instructions.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those components to be able to conclude whether sufficient and appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
This involvement included oversight visits and review of working papers at the Groups significant components in the US and at the Global Shared Services audit in Poland, and attendance at clearance meetings.
In addition, we met with component management in China and Singapore.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of any misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 10 million 2014 15 million How we determined it 5% of profit before tax 51 million adding back the share of tax of joint ventures and associates 14 million and exceptional items 142 million, as defined in Note 2 in the Group financial statements.
Rationale for benchmark applied The Groups principal measure of earnings is adjusted profit before tax, which excludes exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and net retirement benefit interest from profit before tax.
The Group adjusts for exceptional items as it believes that doing so is necessary to provide an understanding of financial performance.
We have not used adjusted profit before tax, as defined above, as our benchmark since the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and net retirement benefit interest are recurring items.
Materiality is lower than last year due to the reduction in the Groups profit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to it misstatements identified during our audit above 750,000 2014 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 33, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Group financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or from this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 80, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report arising UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken from this responsibility.
as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 53, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report arising describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters from this responsibility.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC continued Adequacy of accounting records and This report, including the opinions, has been Other matter information and explanations received prepared for and only for the Companys We have reported separately on the Parent Under the Companies Act 2006 we are members as a body in accordance with Company financial statements of Tate & Lyle required to report to you if, in our opinion, we Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act PLC for the year end 31 March 2015 and on have not received all the information and 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, the information in the Directors Remuneration in giving these opinions, accept or assume explanations we require for our audit.
We have Report that is described as having been no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility for any other purpose or to audited.
any other person to whom this report is responsibility.
shown or into whose hands it may come John Waters Senior Statutory Auditor save where expressly agreed by our prior Directors remuneration for and on behalf of consent in writing.
Directors Remuneration Report  LLP Companies Act 2006 opinion Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors In our opinion, the part of the Directors What an audit of financial statements London Remuneration Report to be audited has been involves 27 May 2015 properly prepared in accordance with the An audit involves obtaining evidence about Companies Act 2006. the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements sufficient to give Notes: Other Companies Act 2006 reporting reasonable assurance that the Group financial a The maintenance and integrity of the Tate & Lyle Under the Companies Act 2006 we are statements are free from material PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: required to report to you if, in our opinion, misstatement, whether caused by fraud the work carried out by the auditors does not certain disclosures of Directors remuneration or error.
This includes an assessment of: involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility specified by law are not made.
We have no whether the accounting policies are for any changes that may have occurred to the exceptions to report arising from this appropriate to the Groups circumstances financial statements since they were initially responsibility.
and have been consistently applied and b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing adequately disclosed: Corporate governance statement the preparation and dissemination of financial the reasonableness of significant accounting Under the Listing Rules we are required to statements may differ from legislation in other estimates made by the Directors: and jurisdictions.
review the part of the Corporate Governance the overall presentation of the Group Statement relating to the Parent Companys financial statements.
compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have We primarily focus our work in these areas nothing to report having performed our review.
by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own Responsibilities for the financial judgements, and evaluating the disclosures statements and the audit in the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors We test and examine information, using As explained more fully in the Directors sampling and other auditing techniques, to Statement of Responsibilities set out on page the extent we consider necessary to provide 80, the Directors are responsible for the a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
preparation of the Group financial statements We obtain audit evidence through testing and for being satisfied that they give a true and the effectiveness of controls, substantive fair view.
procedures or a combination of both.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an In addition, we read all the financial and opinion on the Group financial statements in non-financial information in the Annual Report accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK to identify material inconsistencies with the & Ireland.
Those standards require us to audited financial statements and to identify comply with the Auditing Practices Boards any information that is apparently materially Ethical Standards for Auditors.
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
84 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015
