Taylor Wimpey plc Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 www.
co. uk Independent Auditors Report Opinion on financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk In our opinion: the Directors confirmation on pages 35 and 66 that they have Inventory Costing continued For a sample of individual plots, we tested additions to the inventory the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the balance to determine whether the costs have been appropriately These judgements impact the carrying value of inventory in the balance Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December Group, including those that would threaten its business model, capitalised, by tracing these additions to supporting invoices.
We also sheet and the profit recognised on each plot sold.
2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: future performance, solvency or liquidity: tested a sample of journals adding to the inventory balance using IT the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in the disclosures on pages 34 to 37 that describe those risks and explain interrogation techniques, to highlight any costs that should have been accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards how they are being managed or mitigated: expensed.
In addition, for a sample of sites we obtained details of the IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the Directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements about margin that had been recognised and corroborated whether the amount the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern recognised in the current period took into account all cost elements, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any including those that the Group is obligated to in the future as part Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over of the conditions of planning.
a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Net realisable value of inventory The Company conducted a detailed exercise in assessing the carrying financial statements: requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group value of inventory.
This exercise is undertaken by each Business Unit Refer to page 67 Audit Committee report, page 107 Critical financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the Directors explanation on page 35 as to how they have assessed and then subject to review and challenge by Head Office Management.
Accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and and page 117 financial statement disclosures.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as We tested the inventory NRV model and critically assessed the the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated judgements that had been made.
This included: to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be At the balance sheet date the Group held inventory that had been written and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over down to net realisable value of 139.5 million 2014: 296.6 million with checking the arithmetic accuracy of the calculations within the model Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures associated impairments of 167.7 million 2014: 206.2 million.
During and identifying any anomalies: Flow Statement and the Notes 1 to 31 relating to the Consolidated drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
the year the Group recorded a net exceptional expense of 0.6 million financial statements and 1 to 15 relating to the Parent Company financial performing a sensitivity analysis on the key judgements relating to the 2014: net release of 18.7 million as the inventory provision was statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis future expected sales price and costs to complete: increased, on a net basis, due to developments in the year relating the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
The net increase in the inventory provision has been assessing the estimated sales prices used by Management by testing IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, the historical sales prices that have been achieved: recognised as an exceptional item.
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue testing a sample of inputs into the Management prepared model Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom as a going concern.
The carrying value of inventory at the lower of cost and net realisable by reference to internal site specific information such as the costs Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting value NRV is dependent on key judgements and estimates that are Independence incurred to date and the estimation of costs required to complete Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
These include: We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical the sites: Going concern and the Directors assessment of Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the an estimation of expected sales prices, which are based on recent obtaining evidence to support the current status of a sample of sites, the principal risks that would threaten the solvency Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance sales prices achieved: including agreeing to planning consent and assessing whether the or liquidity of the Group with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the an estimation of costs to complete: site specific developments are reflected in the valuation: prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors the outcome of applications for planning consent: and for sites where the value has been written back we have obtained statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis Our assessment of risks of material misstatement the specific calculation prepared by Management, corroborated the the consideration of other site-specific factors.
of accounting contained within Note 1 to the financial statements and The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are specific developments at the site that have led to the write-back and the Directors statement on the longer term viability of the Group Changes to these assumptions could result in a material change in the those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation recalculated the value that should have been recorded as income: and contained within the Risk Section on page 35. carrying value of inventory and the associated movements recorded in of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement we engage with internal specialists who are quantity surveyors the income statement.
These risks remain consistent with the prior period.
to assess the costs to complete of a sample of sites within the As part of our audit of the Group, in addition to substantive tests, we also Management prepared model and whether, based on this specialist, the assumptions used by Management are reasonable.
evaluate the design and implementation of internal controls over financial reporting in each of the risk areas.
We have considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures regarding the carrying value of land, work in progress and the write-back to inventory.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Defined benefit pension scheme accounting We assessed the competence and objectivity of the qualified actuary Inventory Costing We tested a sample of sites as part of our visits to the Groups Business engaged by the Group to value the schemes defined benefits pension Units.
We determined whether shared costs were allocated across sites, Refer to page 67 Audit Committee report, page 107 Critical Refer to page 67 Audit Committee Report page 107 Critical position under IAS 19 Employee benefits.
phases and plots appropriately by assessing the reasonableness of the Accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty methodology used and we independently recalculated a sample.
and page 123 financial statement disclosures.
and page 117 financial statement disclosures.
We engaged our internal actuarial specialists to assess the We tested the operating effectiveness of controls in relation to: appropriateness of the methodology and assumptions used to account The value for inventory as at 31 December 2015 is 3,891.2 million The total value of the defined benefit pension scheme at the balance for the defined benefit scheme.
This included comparison of key data sheet date is a liability of 177.1 million 2014: 182.4 million and 2014: 3,490.1 million and as such is the most significant value on the approval of site budgets: with market benchmarks and to challenge the methodology used by the the Balance Sheet page 100. the liabilities specifically are valued at 2,066.2 million 2014: the regular review meetings where Management review actual costs scheme actuary.
We considered whether each of the key assumptions 2,186.2 million.
We consider the appropriate recognition of costs into inventory to be against detailed site budgets: and was reasonable in isolation and collectively in determining the pension Accounting for a defined benefit pension scheme and the value an area of significant risk.
liability at the balance sheet date.
the movement of costs across different phases and sites as a result of liabilities is dependent on significant assumptions, including an of these meetings or other factors identified during the construction There is significant judgement in: These accounting judgements are inherently complex: requiring a high assessment of the discount rate, price inflation and key demographic of the site.
level of Management judgement and specialist actuarial input.
figures including life expectancy and mortality rates.
A change in any identifying which costs, based on their nature, should be capitalised of these assumptions could cause a material change in the value of into inventory rather than expensed: and the liabilities overall and the net pension position on the Groups appropriately allocating these costs across sites, phases and plots balance sheet.
particularly shared costs such as infrastructure.
94 94 95 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 Taylor Wimpey plc www.
co. uk Annual Report and Accounts 2015 www.
94 95 95 Taylor Wimpey plc Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 www.
co. uk Independent Auditors Report continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued of these visits is to conduct procedures over selected controls that are In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk in place at each Business Unit and also to perform substantive testing of inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the certain balances.
In the current year we performed regional visits to Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced Revenue recognition We conducted testing in relation to the revenue recognised under IAS 11 five locations 2014: four.
and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately Construction contracts.
This testing involved both tests of detail and Refer to page 67 Audit Committee report, page 107 Critical discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee analytical procedures.
Accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In addition we also visit other Business Units throughout the entity which which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we and page 108 financial statement disclosures.
are chosen on a random basis and where we perform substantive In performing our tests of detail the following procedures have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
This was performed at four locations 2014: five.
were performed: We consider there to be a risk in the revenue accounted for Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor under IAS 11 Construction contracts which primarily relates to we assessed the judgements in relation to the future profitability of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the the accounting for affordable housing.
This revenue stream is an the site with reference to the site budget: and Act 2006 Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements area of increased judgement.
we recalculated the value that should be recognised at the balance In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
This was based on the percentage of completion and Key Management judgements include: is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited was determined with reference to a sample of costs agreed to estimating the expected costs to complete each site: accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies works certification and the total sales value as agreed to contracts.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality the future profitability of the site: and Act 2006: Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to At the analytical level we developed an expectation of the income the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report the percentage of completion at the balance sheet date.
that should be recognised in the year from this revenue stream, ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is Changes in these judgments can lead to a material change in the value and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated with reference to the level of completion.
consistent with the financial statements: and of revenue recognised.
professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
We assessed the competence and objectivity of the qualified surveyors the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared employed by the Group and the use of these experts to estimate the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. level of completion.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We visited a sample of sites in order to verify how surveyors measure the its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not Companys members those matters we are required to state to them degree of build completion of the developments.
identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the Directors Report.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone We have considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures regarding other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for this revenue stream and whether they are in accordance with IAS 11 Matters on which we are required to report by exception our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Scope of the audit of the financial statements The description of the risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 67. in our opinion: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not we have not received all the information and explanations we require the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether provide a separate opinion on these matters.
for our audit: or caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Our application of materiality An overview of the scope of our audit accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and received from branches not visited by us: or statements that make it probable that the economic decisions of a the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
assessing the risks of material misstatements at the Group level.
Based the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the accounting records and returns.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial in evaluating the results of our work.
the UK Housing division excluding joint ventures which represents the information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
principal segment within the Group and accounts for 98% 2014: 98% the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is We determined materiality for the Group to be 29.0 million 2014: 22.5 of the Groups net operating assets, 98% 2014: 99% of the Groups Directors remuneration apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, million, which is calculated based on 5% 2014: 5% of pre-tax profit for revenue and 98% 2014: 99% of the Groups pre-tax profit before the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our the year, excluding exceptional items, of 603.8 million 2014: 450.1 exceptional expense.
opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies million as described on page 98.
The increase in materiality is directly we consider the implications for our report.
made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited attributable to the increased underlying pre-tax profit for the Group.
PreWe audit all of the Groups UK subsidiaries, which are subject to audit is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have tax profit, excluding exceptional items, has been chosen for the basis for at a statutory materiality level, which in most cases is substantially lower nothing to report arising from these matters.
materiality as this is the measure by which stakeholders and the market than Group materiality.
This is performed subsequent to the audit of assess the wider performance of the entity.
The exceptional expense is the Group accounts.
Corporate Governance Statement excluded as this does not represent part of the underlying trading Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the For the Spanish operations, component auditors report to us on the risk performance of the business.
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance in relation to the net realisable value of the inventory located in Spain.
This Edward Hanson, FCA Senior Statutory Auditor with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have We use performance materiality to detect misstatements at a lower was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP nothing to report arising from our review.
level of precision: for the current year this is set at 20.30 million 2014: of the materiality of the Groups operations within Spain.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 15.75 million.
This is lower than materiality and is used to determine Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report London, United Kingdom For joint ventures, specified audit procedures are conducted by the UK the size of the samples that are selected for audit work and in forming Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are 29 February 2016 team.
This is based on our assessment of risk within these entities.
the conclusions that we make during the course of our procedures.
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and Report is: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.58 million 2014: 0.45 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, statements: or financial information of the remaining components not subject to warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit audit or audit of specified account balances.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of overall presentation of the financial statements.
The audit is performed centrally and includes all of the 24 regional performing our audit: or business units within the Groups UK Housing division.
We choose to otherwise misleading.
visit a sample of these business units selected on a rotational basis and with reference to size and complexity among other factors.
The purpose 96 96 97 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 Taylor Wimpey plc www.
