INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TED BAKER PLC ONLY OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT including how these compare to the experience in 1.
OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS previous years.
IS UNMODIFIED We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups We have audited the financial statements of Ted Baker PLC for the disclosures in respect of the levels of provisions against inventory.
53 week period ending 31 January 2015 set out on pages 58 to 94.
In our opinion: VALUATION OF RETAIL FIXED ASSETS the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Refer to page 20 Audit Committee statement, page 68 of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 accounting policy note and page 77-78 financial statement January 2015 and of the groups profit for the period then ended: disclosures.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared The risk: The Group has invested a significant amount of capital in accordance with International Financial Reporting included in non-current assets on the balance sheet outside the Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as UK in its retail store portfolio.
Given the relative immaturity of adopted by the EU : the brand outside the UK, the payback period is typically longer the parent company financial statements have been properly than for UK stores.
The Group had 333 2014: 310 stores and 20 prepared in accordance with International Financial 2014: 17 outlets at the 31 January 2015.
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union There is a risk that the carrying value of retail fixed IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance assets in these territories could be overstated if the profitability with the Companies Act 2006: and expectations are adversely impacted by trading and other the financial statements have been prepared in accordance conditions that were not anticipated in the initial business case.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as The level of judgement involved in assessing regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the impairment indicators on recently opened retail stores in foreign IAS Regulation.
markets is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL Our response: Our audit procedures included challenging the MISSTATEMENT Directors on the evidence on which they based their assessment In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements as to when an impairment indicator exists for loss making stores the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on and therefore a need for impairment testing arises.
This included our audit were as follows: comparing the performance of retail stores to the original business case, comparing relative performance of stores within VALUATION OF INVENTORY each region and considering whether the Directors assessment Refer to page 20 Audit Committee statement, page 68 was in line with our overall understanding of the maturity of accounting policy note and page 81 financial statement the brand in each location and available external data on future disclosures.
economic prospects of the respective market.
The risk: Inventory is carried in the Financial Statements at We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Sales in the fashion disclosures in respect of impairment of retail fixed assets.
industry can be extremely volatile with consumer demand changing significantly based on current trends.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN is a risk that the carrying value of inventory exceeds its net OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT realisable value.
The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was Our response: Our audit procedures were designed to challenge set at 2.4 m determined with reference to a benchmark of group the adequacy of the Groups provisions against inventory by profit before tax of which it represents 4.9%.
seasonal collection and included: We report to the Audit Committee any corrected Corroborating on a sample basis that items on the stock or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 120,000 ageing listing by season were classified in the appropriate impacting the income statement and 240,000 for balance ageing bracket: sheet reclassifications only, in addition to other identified Assessing the appropriateness of the provision percentages misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
applied to each season and challenged the assumptions made Of the groups 22 reporting components, the group by the Directors on the extent to which old inventory can be audit team subjected the 2 UK components to an audit for group sold through various channels: and reporting purposes and the 3 US components to specified riskConsidered the historical accuracy of provisioning and used focused audit procedures performed by component auditors in the information obtained as evidence for evaluating the the US.
appropriateness of the assumptions made in the current year Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 53 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TED BAKER PLC ONLY The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the groups results: NUMBER OF COMPONENTS GROUP REVENUE GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX TOTAL ASSETS Audits for group reporting purposes 2 67% 90% 76% Specified risk focused audit procedures 3 20% 8% 21% TOTAL 5 87% 98% 97% For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an the Corporate Governance section of the annual report aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there describing the work of the Group Audit and Risk Committee were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
does not appropriately address matters communicated by us The Group audit team instructed component to the audit committee.
auditors in the US as to the significant areas to be covered, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you including the relevant risks detailed above and the information if, in our opinion: to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the components materialities which ranged from 2.1m - 2.3m, parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group been received from branches not visited by us: or across the components.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Telephone conference meetings were held with Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in component auditors in the US.
At these meetings the Group agreement with the accounting records and returns: or team discussed the audit strategy and the findings reported to the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further law are not made: or work required by the Group audit team was then performed by we have not received all the information and explanations we the component auditor.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 4.
OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED the directors statement, set out on page 52, in relation to BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 IS UNMODIFIED going concern: and In our opinion: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 18 in the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the Corporate Governance section of the annual report relating audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 Companies Act 2006: and UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities 5.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF Statement set out on page 52, the directors are responsible for the THE MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that REPORT BY EXCEPTION they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have Councils website at www.
This identified other information in the annual report that contains report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is responsibilities, published on our website at www.
auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as In particular, we are required to report to you if: if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding we have identified material inconsistencies between the of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors the basis of our opinions.
statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and Robert Brent Senior Statutory Auditor understandable and provides the information necessary for for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor shareholders to assess the groups performance, business Chartered Accountants model and strategy: or 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL 19 March 2015 54 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 55 56 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 57
