Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC Our opinion Audit scope In our opinion, Tesco PLCs Group financial statements the We conducted audit work over the complete financial information financial statements : for 13 components across the UK, Europe and Asia.
In addition give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs specified procedures were carried out at the Groups shared as at 28 February 2015 and of its loss and cash flows for service centre in Bangalore.
the 53 week period the period then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International The components that were part of our audit scope as set out Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the above accounted for 99% 2013 14: 92% of Group profit before European Union: and tax before restructuring and other one off items and the reversal have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of of commercial income recognised in previous periods.
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Areas of focus What we have audited The following were areas of focus for our audit: Tesco PLCs financial statements comprise: recognition of commercial income: the Group balance sheet as at 28 February 2015: commercial income impact on prior years: the Group income statement and the Group statement impairment of property, plant and equipment: of comprehensive income for the period then ended: inventory: the Group cash flow statement for the period then ended: impairment of investments in associated undertakings: the Group statement of changes in equity for the period then provisions and reserves in Tesco Bank: ended: and management override of controls: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a compliance with laws and regulations.
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK and Ireland.
in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing statements and are identified as audited.
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and estimates that involved making assumptions and considering IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal Our audit approach controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement Overview due to fraud.
Materiality Overall Group materiality for 2014 15 was 50 million, which The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect was based on applying professional judgement, taking into on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, consideration a number of profit based measures and the overall are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also scale of the business.
Overall Group materiality in 2013 14 was set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas 150 million.
in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 75 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recognition of commercial income Refer to page 37 Audit Committee Report, page 88 Accounting As with any significant audit risk, we understood and evaluated Policies.
the controls that the Group has in place around commercial income.
Given the announcement in September 2014 we did not Tesco has agreements with suppliers whereby discounts and rebates seek to place any significant reliance on the operating effectiveness are received retrospectively according to the quantity of goods of the controls and our work in 2014 15 in the UK and around the bought and promotional and marketing activity performed in stores world principally comprised substantive testing.
Our response to this risk included an understanding of the work We focused on this area as this income contributes a significant carried out by Tesco Internal Audit and also the scope and results amount to the Group results and also due to the fact that these of the work carried out by Deloitte, who were appointed by the agreements can include a number of characteristics that require directors to perform an independent review of the commercial judgement to be applied in determining the appropriate income misstatement.
accounting based on the terms of the agreement.
There may also be incentives for buyers to manipulate the timing of when In the UK we also used our specialist forensic knowledge to help commercial income is recognised to meet internal targets.
corroborate the misstatement of commercial income announced by the Group, provide information relating to prior periods and Our audit procedures focused, in particular, on the following assess the reliability of support provided by management.
judgements: the period which the agreements cover and hence the correct Our audit approach and results of our work on Commercial Income period for recognition: were discussed on a number of occasions with the Audit Committee.
the determination of volume achieved and the applicable rebate income earned: and As part of our review of component teams audit work, the Group the appropriate recognition of income related to one off engagement team was specifically involved in determining the audit agreements and marketing and promotional activity.
approach in this area in order to be satisfied that sufficient focus was placed on the more judgemental areas.
As a result of this This risk was heightened during the period following the involvement we were satisfied that, whilst complex, this area was Groups announcement on 22 September 2014 relating to well understood and there was sufficient focus on this area of risk.
the misstatement of commercial income.
As a result of this announcement our audit in 2014 15 also considered the impact Our audit procedures across individual countries included a on prior period financial statements of the issues identified combination of the following substantive testing, on a sample basis: during the current period.
detailed testing of commercial income recognised in the period, with particular attention to whether the income was recognised in the correct period and the appropriateness of accrued commercial income at the period end.
This involved selecting a sample of amounts invoiced and accrued in the period and agreeing them to supporting documentation and third party evidence.
Where available we inspected underlying contractual terms and or related third party correspondence for a selection of arrangements.
We also held a number of discussions with members of Tescos commercial buying team to understand the nature of individual agreements: confirming the quantum and nature of a sample of individual commercial income agreements directly with suppliers.
Where confirmations were not received from suppliers we examined alternative supporting documentation: testing that amounts have been recognised in the correct period through examining active promotional deals in-store and online either side of the period end and ensuring that the related income was recognised in the correct period: testing credit notes issued during the period and post period end to determine whether the income to which they related has been appropriately reversed: testing supplier statement reconciliations prepared by management for a sample of suppliers: and inspecting the Groceries Supplier Code of Practice GSCOP reporting and any complaints from suppliers.
The above audit procedures did not identify any matters that resulted in a significant audit adjustment.
76 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Commercial income impact on prior periods Refer to page 37 Audit Committee Report, page 88 Accounting We challenged and evaluated managements quantitative and Policies and page 99 notes.
qualitative analysis of amounts relating to prior periods and, whilst judgemental, we considered that assessment to be reasonable.
The Group has stated in its financial statements that commercial The estimated impact on 2013 14 profits was 53 million, which was income recognised in previous periods was overstated by 53 below our profit based materiality of 150 million that we million in 2013 14 and by 155 million in the periods prior to determined applicable for the 2013 14 audit.
The directors have concluded that it is not possible to on the 22 February 2014 and 23 February 2013 balance sheets was determine the exact amounts relating to prior periods and exactly 208 million and 155 million respectively, both of which are less which periods are affected.
Management has however produced than 0.5% of the Groups total assets at each respective period end.
a quantitative and qualitative estimate of the amounts relating The basis on which we considered materiality relating to prior period to prior periods.
items is explained further below.
Having estimated the amounts of potential misstatement relating After considering carefully the nature and the quantum of the to prior periods, the directors then assessed whether these estimated amounts relating to prior periods we concurred with the amounts are material such that the prior period financial directors that these amounts, whilst significant, were not material statements would require restatement.
The directors concluded and the prior period financial statements did not require restating.
that the amounts relating to prior periods, whilst significant, were The estimated impact on prior periods has been charged to the not, from an accounting perspective, material and consequently income statement in the current period and the Group has that it is not necessary to restate the 2013 14 financial statements.
separately identified this as a one-off item.
We concurred with this accounting treatment and are supportive of the detailed disclosures made in the Annual Report about the impact of the misstatement on the prior periods financial statements.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment Refer to page 37 Audit Committee Report, page 88 Accounting We evaluated managements impairment calculations in local Policies and page 108 notes.
territories, assessing the future cash flow forecasts used in the models, and the process by which they were drawn up, including The directors have recorded an impairment charge of 4,292 comparing them to the latest Board approved budgets, and million against the carrying value of property, plant and we tested the mechanics of the underlying calculations.
We equipment across the Group.
understood and challenged: the assumptions used in the Groups five-year Plan and the We focused on this area because the determination of whether long term growth rates by comparing them to economic and or not an impairment charge for property, plant and equipment industry forecasts: was necessary involved significant judgements by the directors the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital and other about the future results of the business and assessment of future inputs and comparable organisations: and plans for the Groups property portfolio in a number of territories.
the assumptions used by the external valuers to determine the fair market value of the assets.
In particular we focused on the reasonableness and impact of key assumptions including: In performing the above work we utilised our specialist forecasting the cash flow forecasts derived from internal forecasts and and valuations knowledge to provide challenge and external market the assumptions around the future performance: data points to assess the reasonableness of the assumptions used the discount rate and the long term growth rate including by management.
the assessment of risk factors and growth expectations of the relevant territory: and We performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of growth the assumptions used in the valuations prepared to support rates within the cash flow forecasts to ascertain the extent of the fair value of certain assets and also the assessment of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively the external valuers as managements expert.
would be required for the assets to be further impaired and also considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising.
Whilst recognising that cash flow forecasting, impairment modelling and property valuations are all inherently judgemental, we concluded that the assumptions used by management were within an acceptable range of reasonable estimates.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 77 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Inventory Refer to page 37 Audit Committee Report, page 88 Accounting We examined the basis of the new methodology with respect to Policies and page 113 notes.
slow moving inventory provisions and the appropriateness of the provisioning percentages applicable to individual categories of The Group held inventory of 2,957 million at 28 February 2015. inventory.
We determined that the new methodology of estimating The valuation of inventory was a focus of our audit for the inventory provisions was acceptable.
This change in methodology following reasons: represents a change in estimate and consequently recording the the Group has changed its provisioning methodology for impact in the current period income statement is appropriate.
We slow moving inventory from an approach based on inventory also agreed that the disclosure of the impact of this change as a ageing to one based on forecast inventory usage.
The new one-off cost is appropriate.
method of estimating provisions for realisable value requires judgement as it applies provisioning percentages to estimates We examined the changes the Group has made to its assessment of future sales.
The impact of this change in estimate has of costs directly related to bringing inventory to its final destination been charged to the income statement in the current period and hence included in the cost of inventory.
The new methodology and, at 323 million, is material: and remains compliant with Accounting Standards.
We concurred with the Group has also revised its methodology for including the directors that the amounts relating to the changes made to the directly attributable overheads within its determination of types of costs which are capitalised in inventory are not material the cost of inventory.
These overheads relate to additional to the Groups financial statements and consequently recording costs incurred through the distribution and in-store processes the impact of this change in accounting policy along with the of bringing inventory to its final destination.
This change impact of the change in estimate in the current period income has involved both a change in accounting policy in respect statement is acceptable.
We also agreed that the disclosure of of the type of overheads included and also a change in the impact of these changes as a one-off cost is appropriate.
estimate of the quantum of costs to include.
The directors have determined that the element relating to the type of We attended physical inventory counts in all countries within the overheads included, which, as a change in accounting policy scope of our audit.
In the UK we attended 93 physical inventory would normally be reflected retrospectively in the prior period counts during the period, performing our own sample counts and financial statements, is not material.
The directors have checking that the accounting records reflected these physical therefore recorded the impact of this change in accounting counts.
The counting differences identified, which were immaterial, policy 59 million in the current period income statement were adjusted in the accounting records and these differences were along with the impact of the change in estimate of the at a level consistent with the normal shrinkage provisions held quantum of costs to include 109 million.
In addition, given the value of the inventory balance in the UK retail business 1,637 million our UK component team identified the existence of inventory to be a particular area of focus for its audit.
Impairment of investment in associated undertakings Refer to page 37 Audit Committee Report, page 88 Accounting We assessed and challenged the valuation approach and Policies and page 112 notes.
assumptions used by the third party valuer commissioned by the directors.
This included understanding and challenging the During the period the Group completed the transaction with independence, scope of work, growth rate and discount rate China Resources Enterprises Limited CRE to combine their assumptions of the directors third party valuation expert.
The Group holds a 20% equity interest in the enlarged retail operations and accounts We have considered the historic and forecast macro-economic and for this interest as an associated undertaking.
food retail sector performance and conditions in China.
Following a reduction in the trading performance of the We have also considered the implied revenue and profit multiples combined business in China management has performed generated by the external valuation and compared them to other an impairment review of the carrying value and recorded comparable companies operating in the food retail sector in China.
an impairment charge in the current period of 630 million.
Whilst recognising that valuing businesses is inherently judgemental We focused on this area due to the significant and complex we concluded that the valuation determined by the directors from judgements both valuation techniques and underlying internal the third party valuation was within an acceptable range.
and external assumptions required over determining the fair value of the Groups associate in China.
78 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provisions and reserves in Tesco Bank Refer to page 37 Audit Committee Report, page 88 Accounting We assessed and challenged managements assumptions for loan Policies and page 125 notes.
and credit card impairment, particularly the level of recovery on historically defaulted receivables and the level of more recent We focused on this area because the directors make complex defaults, testing whether they are supportable by reference to and subjective judgements over both timing of recognition internal historical financial information, external market data of provisions for impairment and other regulatory matters or robust management rationale.
and the estimate of the quantum of any such amounts.
We assessed and challenged the assumptions made by management The areas we particularly focused on were: in calculating the provisions for customer redress.
We examined loan and credit card impairment provisions which are judgemental historical data to assess whether trends in customer claims have and material.
Judgement is required to assess factors such as the been appropriately reflected in the provisions.
We read legal advice loss given default, probability of default and loss emergence period received by Tesco Bank to corroborate the basis on which the before arriving at an impairment provision: provisions were calculated.
provisions for customer redress PPI and Consumer Credit Act which is an area where there continues to be a high level We evaluated the work performed by independent actuaries of judgement with changes to key assumptions as actual and challenged the key assumptions the directors have made experience is taken into consideration having the potential for insurance reserving by using our market knowledge of the to materially alter the level of provision recognised: and UK Motor and Household insurance products.
Tesco Underwriting Limited insurance reserving which continues to be an area of judgement, with a number of As a result of our work we considered the above provisions assumptions inputting into the overall reserve amounts.
and reserves in Tesco Bank to be within an acceptable range of reasonable estimates.
Management override of controls Refer to page 37 Audit Committee Report.
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, with a particular focus on changes introduced since the Groups As described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 32 announcement in September 2014 relating to the commercial and 33, matters surrounding the commercial income issue are income misstatement.
Our procedures included: now the subject of an investigation by the Serious Fraud Office SFO in the UK.
We considered the impact of the override of understanding the overall governance and oversight process controls relating to those matters.
As explained above we focused including the independence and objectivity of those charged on this area and our testing was designed to ensure we with governance and the quality and timeliness of the information appropriately addressed the risk of material misstatement.
In particular we considered how the oversight process had been impacted by the several recent changes in Board The challenges faced by the Group this year have caused the and senior management positions: directors to examine closely those areas of the financial consideration of the Groups code of conduct and whistle-blowing statements where higher levels of management judgement processes and the communication of these across the Group.
There is a risk that an undue level of conservatism the September 2014 announcement, the Board has initiated a could have been applied when drawing conclusions from this Group wide communication programme emphasising the examination.
We considered this risk when auditing judgemental importance of culture, integrity and ethics.
We read the associated areas, and in our overall review of whether the financial communications and considered the impact of the programme: statements presented a true and fair view.
examining the scope and results of the work carried out by Internal Audit.
Following the September 2014 announcement, Internal Audit completed its scheduled programme of work to perform a review of the UK commercial income process, and to examine controls around other areas of significant accounting judgement.
We took account of the results of this work when planning and performing our audit procedures: and evaluating the specific changes made to the commercial income processes and controls, and the staff training used to launch these changes.
These changes were made mid-way through the accounting period and did not operate fully throughout the period.
We therefore did not place any significant reliance on these controls as part of our 2014 15 audit of commercial income.
We also tested manual journal entries and incorporated an element of unpredictability in the timing of our work and the selection of our samples into our testing plans.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement.
These estimates included the areas of impairment and provisioning as set out in the areas of focus above.
As shown by our overall opinion on the financial statements, we were satisfied that the level of conservatism remains within an acceptable range.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 79 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Compliance with laws and regulations Refer to page 37 Audit Committee Report.
We met with Tesco internal and external legal teams to understand and discuss the status of any legal claims.
Tesco is currently under investigation by the SFO in the UK following the September 2014 announcement relating We read the minutes of Board meetings and the Executive to the commercial income misstatement.
The outcome Committee to consider whether the directors are aware of of this investigation will not be known for some time.
However amounts that should be provided for.
should fines be levied as a result, these could be material.
We read the disclosures made in the Annual Report relating to the We focused on this area given the level of judgement required SFO investigation.
by the directors in assessing whether a provision for future fines is required at this time.
We obtained confirmation from the directors via the management representation letter that no provisions are required at this stage.
How we tailored the audit scope The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and In identifying these areas of focus and in ensuring that we financial statement items accounted for centrally, including performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting, goodwill financial statements as a whole, we took into account: the impairment, and share based payments were also audited by geographic structure of the Group: the accounting processes and the Group engagement team at the head office.
controls: and the industry in which the Group operates, and tailored the scope of our audit accordingly.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of The Groups accounting process is structured around a local materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
finance function in each geographical location and a shared These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to service centre in Bangalore, India that carries out shared services determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and activities for some of the locations.
Each of the local finance extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of functions report into the central Group finance function.
The misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements local finance functions consist of 19 operating and head office as a whole.
In addition, we used our quantitative assessment of reporting units and a number of joint ventures and associates.
materiality when assessing the impact of identified misstatements The geographical locations and the shared service centre maintain arising during the period that could have an impact on the current their own accounting records and controls and report to the period and or the prior period.
Group finance team through an integrated consolidation system.
where misstatements were identified which related to the In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we current period income statement the quantitative materiality determined which locations were significant to the Groups results set out in the table below 50 million was used to determine either due to size or their risk characteristics.
Accordingly we whether misstatements should be adjusted.
For misstatements identified six trading units and the head office reporting unit for that did not impact profits and only affected the balance sheet which we determined that we needed to conduct audit work over we did not consider it appropriate to use a standard, profit the complete financial information.
These seven reporting units based measure of materiality and our quantitative assessment were the UK, Turkey, Korea, Thailand, Tesco Bank, Dunnhumby had regard to whether the misstatement was above 5% of and the Group head office and accounted for 99% of the Groups the balance sheet line to which it related and or 1% of total profit before tax before restructuring and other one-off items and assets: and the reversal of commercial income recognised in previous periods, where misstatements were identified in the current period of which the main UK trading business contributed 20%.
Audits which related to financial statements issued in prior periods of the complete financial information were also performed for a for example the commercial income issue described above further six trading units where there are local statutory reporting we considered the quantitative materiality of these items in requirements.
These trading units were Republic of Ireland, Czech two ways by considering the impact on previously reported Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary and Malaysia.
In each profits against the profit based materiality we determined in geographical location we used PwC component auditors to audit the previous period in 2013 14 this was 150 million and also and report on the complete financial information of the unit in that the impact on the previously reported balance sheet using the location.
In relation to the shared service centre in Bangalore each balance sheet metrics referred to in the previous bullet.
component auditor instructed specified audit procedures be performed over the balances and transactions processed that were For all misstatements we also considered whether their nature relevant to their reporting location and required for the purposes or other qualitative factors meant that they were material.
of auditing the complete financial information for that location.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality Where the work was performed by component auditors, under for the financial statements as a whole as follows: our instruction, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting locations to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
80 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Overall Group Materiality 50 million 2013 14: 150 million.
How we determined it Professional judgement having applied benchmark percentages to a number of profit measures and considering the overall scale of the business.
Overall Group materiality in 2013 14 was 150 million, which represented approximately 5% of profit before tax adjusted for restructuring and one-off items.
Rationale for benchmark Given the significant reduction in the Groups profits compared to the prior period we considered applied materiality in a number of different ways, including: the methodology we used in the prior period, namely 5% of statutory profit before tax adjusted for restructuring and one-off items.
This would have resulted in an indicative overall materiality of 22 million: and our standard benchmark of 5% applied to a three period average of statutory profit before tax adjusted for restructuring and one-off items.
This would resulted in an indicative overall materiality of 117 million.
In our professional judgement, we concluded that the higher end of the range 117 million would encompass amounts which, if impacting reported profits, could influence decisions made by the companys members as a body, and which therefore would be considered material.
We also concluded, in our professional judgement that amounts at the lower end of the range 22 million would not influence such decisions, given the scale of Tescos operations.
We therefore determined that an appropriate level of materiality for performing the 2014 15 audit would be within this range, whilst at neither the upper nor lower ends.
Based on our professional judgement, we selected an overall materiality level of 50 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
to them misstatements identified during our audit above As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors 2.5 million 2013 14: 7 million as well as misstatements use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Going concern Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 71, in relation to going concern.
Other required reporting We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Consistency of other information As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded Companies Act 2006 opinion that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least ISAs UK and Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or from this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 74, in accordance with Code Provision We have no exceptions to report arising C. 1.1, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and from this responsibility.
understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 37 to 39, as required by Code Provision We have no exceptions to report arising C. 3.8, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address from this responsibility.
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 81 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC continued Adequacy of information and explanations received What an audit of financial statements involves Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from to report arising from this responsibility.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration circumstances and have been consistently applied specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report and adequately disclosed: arising from this responsibility.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and Corporate governance statement the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate directors judgements against available evidence, forming Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the our review.
Responsibilities for the financial statements We test and examine information, using sampling and other and the audit auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain Our responsibilities and those of the directors audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Statement on page 74, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information that they give a true and fair view.
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for implications for our report.
the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Other matter We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility We have reported separately on the parent company financial for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report statements of Tesco PLC for the 53 week period ended is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 28 February 2015 and on the information in the Directors agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 5 May 2015 82 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
