110 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR AUDIT APPROACH Our opinion Context In our opinion: Thomas Cook Group plc is a British global travel company listed on Thomas Cook Group plcs Group financial statements and Company the London Stock Exchange.
The Group operates from approximately financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair 15 source locations across Europe.
The context for our audit has view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at been set against the continued execution of the Groups strategy 30 September 2015 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the tobecome more resilient and focused on profitable growth, through Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Wave 1 programme and the launch of the New Operating Model the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in project, given the effect of external factors and events which impact accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the travel industry as a whole.
This was particularly relevant for the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and work performed on the carrying value of goodwill and deferred tax the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with assets, the recoverability of hotel prepayments and presentation of therequirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards separately disclosed items.
thegroup financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The areas of audit focus where work performed by component teams What we have audited was most relevant were the recoverability of hotel prepayments The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and and the accounting for aircraft leases and associated maintenance Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: provisions.
The judgements in respect of the recoverability of goodwill and deferred tax assets, treasury derivatives, the Groups defined the Group and Company balance sheet as at 30 September 2015: benefit pension schemes and the presentation of items as separately the Group income statement and statement of other comprehensive disclosed are primarily taken at a Group level.
income for the year then ended: the Group and Company cash flow statements for the year Overview then ended: Overall Group materiality: 15.5m which is the Group and Company statement of changes in equity for the year based on 5% of the underlying profit from then ended: and operations, being profit from operations the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of Materiality adjusted for the impact of separately significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Full scope audits performed on 35 of 120 Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
units from across the four geographic Audit scope These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are operating divisions.
The reporting units where we performed The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the audit work accounted for 70% of the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as Areas of Groups underlying profit from operations focus adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial and 81% of the Groups revenue.
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the The Group team visited all three of Companies Act 2006. the Sub-Consolidation component teams being UK, Northern Europe and Continental Europe and the Airlines Germany component team to attend the clearance meetings and to discuss the audit findings.
Carrying value of goodwill and deferred tax assets.
Aircraft leases and associated maintenance provisions.
Treasury operations and use of derivative instruments.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 111 including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards to fraud.
on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus CARRYING VALUE OF GOODWILL ANDDEFERRED TAX ASSETS Refer to page 124 Accounting policies and pages 141 and 157 notes.
We evaluated the process by which the Directors prepared their cash The Group holds significant goodwill and deferred tax assets on the flow forecasts and confirmed that they reflected the latest Board balance sheet of 2,388m and 197m respectively.
Determining the carrying approved three-year plans.
We performed a critical review of the historical value of these assets is dependent on complex and subjective judgements accuracy of budgets and forecasts by, for example, comparing the actual by the Directors about the future results of the business.
performance of the business in the current year against the board approved budgets.
These procedures enabled us to determine the quality In particular, in respect of goodwill we focused on the value in use of and accuracy of the forecasting process.
the UK Cash Generating Unit CGU which accounts for 67% of the total goodwill balance.
Similarly, for deferred tax we focused on the UK which The key assumptions within the UK forecasts are the continuing successful holds a net deferred tax asset of 141m.
implementation of the business development and profit improvement initiatives which drive the resulting growth rates.
In assessing the The value of these assets is highly dependent upon the Directors appropriateness of the Directors assumptions we benchmarked certain views of the future results and prospects of the business including the external data used in the discount rate calculation against rates used by successful implementation of the ongoing UK transformation and business comparable companies.
We also considered factors such as independent development and restructuring initiatives that form part of the New forecast growth rates for the wider travel industry and progress against Operating Model.
plans associated with the business development and profit improvement If forecast results are not achievable, the valuation of the goodwill and initiatives.
therecognition of the deferred tax assets may not be appropriate.
We applied sensitivity analysis to the Directors calculations to ascertain the extent to which reasonable adverse changes would, either individually or in aggregate, require the impairment of goodwill or the fide-recognition ofdeferred tax assets.
As a result of our work, we concurred with the Directors conclusion that no goodwill impairment charges were required and that it was appropriate to recognise a deferred tax asset for the UK.
AIRCRAFT LEASES AND ASSOCIATED MAINTENANCE PROVISIONS Refer to pages 125 and 131 accounting policies and page 158 notes.
We examined the terms included within new or extended aircraft lease Significant fixed assets for aircraft of 605m and provisions of 241m contracts to check that they were appropriately accounted for as operating formaintenance and contractual end of lease obligations are held on or finance leases.
We examined the appropriateness of the maintenance and other This was an area of focus for our audit due to the size of these balances contractual end of lease provision calculations prepared by management and the inherent level of estimation included in the calculation of the byperforming an assessment of new obligations, verifying key maintenance provisions which are based upon forecast aircraft usage assumptions such as the quantum and timing of maintenance andmaintenance costs.
expenditureto contracts, confirming flying hours to the aircraft log books maintained by the engineering department and understanding Furthermore, there is judgement needed to determine whether leases anysignificant provision releases.
are operating or financing in nature.
Further complexity arises in respect of aircraft where contractual terms have been amended, including the Our procedures did not identify any aircraft that had been incorrectly extension of lease terms.
classified or any material misstatements within the associated aircraftprovision.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 112 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus SEPARATELY DISCLOSED ITEMS Refer to page 129 accounting policies and page 137 notes.
We challenged the Directors rationale for the presentation of separately The value of separately disclosed items which are presented within a disclosed items, assessing this against the Groups accounting policy, separate column on the face of the income statement has reduced this plans for the New Operating Model and consistency of treatment with prior year but remains high.
These items are excluded from the Directors periods.
reporting of the underlying results of the business.
We also considered items that were recorded within underlying profit that The nature and use of separately disclosed items is explained in the we considered to be exceptional in nature and challenged management Groups accounting policy and includes costs associated with the Group asto whether they should be presented within separately disclosed items.
Transformation Programme Wave 1 and the newly initiated New Operating We assessed the appropriateness, consistency and balance of the Model programme including redundancy, consultancy, personnel and Directors presentation of these items within the financial statements.
Other items within separately disclosed items include significant legal and onerous lease provisions, the write off fees associated with the Groups refinancing and the impact of certain asset disposals.
We focused on this area because separately disclosed items are not defined by IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and therefore judgement is required by the Directors to identify such items.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as separately disclosed is important to maintain comparability of the reporting year on year.
RECOVERABILITY OF HOTEL PREPAYMENTS Refer to page 131 key sources of estimation uncertainty for further information.
We assessed the Directors ability to utilise the hotel deposits and Significant prepayments to hoteliers are held on the year end balance prepayments based on actual and forecast bookings at the hotels.
Weexamined contracts to ensure that contractual agreements were inplace to roll forward prepayments to future seasons.
The recoverability of these balances requires the Directors judgement including consideration of current booking levels, historical trend data, We evaluated the Directors contingency plans regarding certain aged future forecast bookings, the credit-worthiness of the hoteliers and the prepayments, with particular focus on those deemed to be at higher risk impact of external factors.
due to geographic location or the credit risk associated with the hotel owner together with any security held by the Group.
We challenged the recoverability of certain deposits and whether appropriate provisions hadbeen recorded.
Our work did not identify any hotel prepayments that we did not consider to be recoverable.
TREASURY OPERATIONS AND USE OF DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS Refer to pages 125 and 126 accounting policies and 151 notes for related disclosures.
We used our specialist treasury knowledge to test the valuation for fuel The Group uses a number of hedging structures including options to and foreign currency derivatives by recalculating their fair value using manage its exposure to adverse movements in fuel prices and foreign observable market data.
We evaluated the values held in the hedging reserve and tested the manual The accounting for options and related derivatives is complex and we adjustments made to correct for timing differences between the maturity therefore focused on this area to assess whether hedge accounting of the hedging instrument and the underlying exposure.
had been properly applied and the impact of hedging had been properly We examined the hedge documentation and the hedging structures in presented.
place to check whether they had been accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting policies and presented appropriately in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Our work performed did not identify any material misstatements.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 113 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION VALUATION Refer to pages 127 and 131 accounting policies and page 163 notes for details of the Group defined We used our pension specialists to evaluate the Directors assessment benefit schemes.
of the assumptions made in relation to the valuation of the liabilities and The Group has defined benefit pension plans with net post-retirement assets in the Groups pension plans liabilities of 279m which is significant in the context of the overall balance We also focused on the valuations of pension plan liabilities and the sheet of the Group.
pension assets as follows: The valuation of the pension liabilities requires significant levels of We agreed the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of the judgement and technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
pension liability to our internally developed benchmarks Changes in a number of the key assumptions including salary increases, We assessed salary increase and mortality rate assumptions against inflation, discount rates and mortality can have a material impact on the national and industry averages.
calculation of the liability, particularly for the Airlines Germany pension We obtained third-party confirmations on the ownership and valuation schemes which are unfunded.
ofpension assets There is also an element of judgement in the measurement of fair value We checked that there was no impact of specific events, such as changes ofpension assets due to the nature of financial investments.
to schemes and redundancies that should have been incorporated into the Directors calculation.
We tested underlying inputs, such as employees in the scheme, to the liability valuation used by the scheme actuary.
We also evaluated and tested managements controls and processes over pension data such as leavers to the plan.
The assumptions used by the Directors were materially within our independent expected ranges.
How we tailored the audit scope Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures Group operates.
on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and inevaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on The Group is organised into four geographic operating divisions: Airlines thefinancial statements as a whole.
Germany, Continental Europe, Northern Europe and the UK.
With the Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality exception of Airlines Germany, each operating division comprises forthefinancial statements as a whole as follows: numerous management entities which sub-consolidate at a geographic operating division level and then ultimately at a Group level.
financial statements are ultimately a consolidation of 120 reporting units materiality representing the Groups operating businesses within these geographicHow we 5% of underlying profit from operations, being profit based divisions and the centralised functions.
determined it from operations adjusted for the impact of separately The reporting units vary in size and we identified 35 reporting units, disclosed items.
from across the four geographic operating divisions, which required an Rationale for We believe that the underlying profit from operations audit of their complete financial information due to their individual size.
benchmark provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for These 35 reporting units were audited by eleven country component applied determining materiality and is the key metric against teams and the Group engagement team.
These reporting units which the performance of the Group is most commonly accounted for 70% of the Groups underlying profit from operations measured.
Component For each component in our audit scope, we allocated Specified procedures and audits of financial statement line items were materiality a materiality that was less than our overall Group performed on certain balances in a further 19 reporting units including materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across the Groups IT development company because of internally generated components was between 1m and 11m.
intangible assets, the Russia operation because of its size and two Group financing companies because of the material bonds, cash and We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them derivatives held by these companies.
misstatements identified during our audit above 1m 2014: 1m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted Our audit work at these reporting units, which included visits by the reporting for qualitative reasons.
Group engagement team to the three Sub-consolidation component teams and the Airlines Germany team and attendance at their clearance meetings, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group and Company financial statements as a whole.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 114 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC CONTINUED Going concern The directors assessment of the prospects of the group andof the principal risks that would threaten the solvency Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors orliquidity of the group statement, set out on page 85, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have the Directors confirmation on page 57 of the Annual We have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, nothing Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to that they have carried out a robust assessment of the material to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
principal risks facing the Group, including those that add or to draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
would threaten its business model, future performance, attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe We have those risks and explain how they are being managed nothing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the ormitigated.
material to Group and Company has adequate resources to remain in operation, add or to draw and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from attention to.
the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit the Directors explanation on page 57 of the Annual We have we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, nothing is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions as to how they have assessed the prospects of the material to can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to Group, over what period they have done so and why add or to draw theGroups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
they consider that period to be appropriate, and their attention to.
statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due Consistency of other information over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary Companies Act 2006 opinion qualifications or assumptions.
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term ISAs UK & Ireland reporting viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are inour opinion: in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering information in the Annual Report is: We have no whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by materially inconsistent with the information in the exceptions us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having audited financial statements: or to report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Adequacy of accounting records and information and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: explanations received or is otherwise misleading.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, inour opinion: the statement given by the Directors on page 87, in We have no accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate exceptions we have not received all the information and explanations we Governance Code the Code, that they consider the to report.
require for our audit: or Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, understandable and provides the information necessary or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from for members to assess the Groups and Companys branches not visited by us: or performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 7981, as We have no required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work exceptions We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address to report.
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 115 Directors remuneration What an audit of financial statements involves Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the assurance that the financial statements are free from material Companies Act 2006. misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Other Companies Act 2006 reporting whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in andCompanys circumstances and have been consistently applied our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified and adequately disclosed: by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made this responsibility.
bythe Directors: and Corporate Governance Statement the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions Directors judgements against available evidence, forming ofthe Code.
our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a Our responsibilities and those of the Directors reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures set out on page 86, the Directors are responsible for the preparation or a combination of both.
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial audited financial statements and to identify any information that is statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for orinconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do PAUL CRAGG not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown for and on behalf of  LLP or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors byourprior consent in writing.
