Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of UBM plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: UBM plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit and the Parents loss for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991: and The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom accounting standards, including FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
What we have audited UBM plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Profit and loss account for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 Related notes 1 to 16 to the financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 8.2 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Revenue recognition as a result of inappropriate cut off via manipulation of deferred revenue: Recognition of deferred tax assets: Valuation of acquired intangible assets: Accounting for the conditional sale of PR Newswire: and Carrying value of goodwill.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of seven components and audit procedures on specific balances of a further five components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 85% of Revenue.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 9.0m which represents 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of UBM plc continued Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Revenue recognition as a result of For each material revenue stream at full and specific We concluded that revenue for the group is inappropriate cut off via manipulation of scope locations, we identified and assessed the materially correct and has been recognised in deferred revenue design of key controls to validate that revenue compliance with group policy and IFRS.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 62 : recognition was appropriate and applied in Accounting policies page 105 : and Note 3.1 of accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
the Consolidated Financial Statements page 105 For a number of components, we tested the operating effectiveness of controls, including IT application We focused on this area due to the significant controls.
value of revenue for the Group, with continuing revenue of 769.9m 2014: 550.5 and We performed substantive procedures on a sample of discontinued revenue of 204.7m 2014: transactions for each revenue stream from source 195.8m.
data through to general ledger to test that appropriate revenue recognition had been applied.
For the Events businesses, customers can be We performed other substantive, transactional testing invoiced many months before event takes place, and analytical procedures to validate the recognition with revenue deferred until the event takes place.
of revenue throughout the year.
As such, there is the potential for error and for management manipulation of the timing of To address the risk of management override as a recognition of revenue.
result of manipulation of deferred revenue, we performed cut off procedures by testing items from For the PR Newswire and Other Marketing revenue recognised during the year and subsequent Services businesses, contracts are entered into to year end to gain assurance over the completeness with customers which can extend over the year and existence of deferred revenue balances.
end, resulting in the potential for error and for For revenue recorded through journal entries outside management manipulation of the timing of of normal business processes, we performed testing revenue recognition.
to establish whether a service had been provided in the financial year to support the revenue recognised.
Recognition of deferred tax assets With support from our taxation specialists, we We concluded that managements judgements Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 62 : evaluated managements rationale for the forecast in relation to deferred tax asset recognition and Accounting policies page 107 : and Note 3.6 of periods selected in determining the likelihood of the the disclosures made are appropriate.
We the Consolidated Financial Statements page 107 Group generating suitable future profits to support noted that the assumptions and judgements the recognition of deferred tax assets.
We considered applied in the forecast models mean that the UBM has recognised a net deferred tax asset of the appropriateness of managements assumptions range of possible outcomes is broad.
18.2m 2014: 6.3m that relates to tax losses based on the known facts and circumstances, and other temporary differences.
In addition, including the reliability of forecast models, for each there are significant unused tax losses for which tax jurisdiction.
In particular, we assessed the no deferred tax assets have been recognised in impact of the acquisition of Advanstar and the respect of the UK, US and Luxembourg as set anticipated disposal of PR Newswire on the Groups out on page 109. future capacity to utilise available US tax attributes.
We focus on this area as the assessment of the We evaluated the historical accuracy of forecasting amount of deferred tax assets to be recognised taxable profits and the integrity of the forecast for tax losses involves judgements and models and, as a result of these procedures, we estimates in relation to future taxable profits and formed our own view on the Groups capacity to hence the capacity to utilise available tax assets.
obtain effective relief for tax losses and other temporary differences over the forecast period in the UK, US and Luxembourg.
We considered the appropriateness of the Groups disclosures in note 3.6 in respect of deferred tax.
88 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Valuation of acquired intangible assets With involvement of an EY business valuation specialist, We concluded that the methodology applied to Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 62 : we reviewed managements assessments of the fair value allocate the purchase price is appropriate and Accounting policies page 113 : and Note 4.2 of of the asset and liabilities acquired, and in particular the that the assumptions used to determine the fair the Consolidated Financial Statements page 113 methodology applied in the valuation of intangible assets.
value of intangible assets acquired are within Specifically: an acceptable range and that the intangible In 2015, UBM has finalised the purchase price We reviewed the methodology applied to identify the assets are appropriately stated in the 31 allocation exercise of the fair values of the assets categories of intangible asset.
December 2015 and 2014 consolidated and liabilities of Advanstar, which was acquired statements of financial position.
We have validated that the cash flow forecasts used in December 2014 for 699m.
in the valuation are consistent with information In 2015, UBM has acquired Hospitalar for 31m approved by the Board and have reviewed the and has recognised the preliminary fair values of historical accuracy of managements forecasts.
the acquired assets and liabilities in its 31 We have challenged the key assumptions such as the December 2015 consolidated statement of discount rates and royalty rates by comparing them financial position.
to relevant market rates and historic UBM acquisitions to verify that management had been The risk is incorrect identification and consistent in its approach to valuations.
measurement of the acquired intangible assets since the valuation is based on valuation We evaluated the adequacy of the acquisition techniques, which involve significant judgement disclosures in the Groups financial statements.
about the future results of the business, the discount rates applied to future cash flows and royalty rates used.
New in 2015 Accounting for the conditional We corroborated that the PR Newswire business met We concluded that the PR Newswire business sale of PR Newswire the IFRS 5 criteria to be recorded as held for sale and disposal had met the IFRS 5 criteria to be Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 62 : a discontinued operation.
recognised as held for sale and as a Accounting policies page 135 : and Note 6.4 of discontinued operation.
The income statement We confirmed that no impairment to the assets and the Consolidated Financial Statements page 135 and statement of financial position amounts, liabilities was required based on the agreed including the fair value of the deal-contingent sales price.
In December 2015, UBM announced the forward exchange contract are appropriately conditional sale of PR Newswire for $841m.
We tested the extraction of the PR Newswire assets recognised and disclosed.
The assets and liabilities have been recognised and liabilities that are disclosed as held for sale in the as held for sale on the 2015 statement of consolidated statement of financial position, from the financial position and the results are classified Groups consolidated ledgers.
as a discontinued operation in the We tested the reclassification of the PR Newswire income statement.
income statement amounts from continuing to discontinued operations in the consolidated income statement and the impact on other disclosures within the consolidated financial statements.
We tested that only those costs directly attributable to the disposal transaction were treated as part of discontinued operations.
We considered whether it was appropriate to include the fair value movement on a deal contingent forward exchange contract, entered into in contemplation of this transaction completing, as an exceptional item within discontinued operations.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of UBM plc continued Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Carrying value of goodwill We reviewed managements impairment model for We concluded that the carrying value of Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 62 : assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
We challenged goodwill is supported at 31 December 2015 Accounting policies page 111 : and Note 4.1 management on CGU identification, cash flow forecasting, and that the level of the impairment of the UBM of the Consolidated Financial Statements discount rates and growth rates.
Specifically: Americas Print CGU is appropriate.
page 111 We have validated that the CGUs identified are the lowest level at which management monitors goodwill.
We focused on this area due the size of the We have validated that the cash flow forecasts used goodwill balance of 1,195.3m 2014: 1,201.8m in the valuation are consistent with information and because the directors assessment of value approved by the Board and have reviewed the in use of the Groups Cash Generating Units historical accuracy of managements forecasts.
CGUs involves judgement about the future results of the business and the discount rates We have evaluated the implied growth rates beyond applied to future cash flow forecasts.
2016 by considering evidence available to support these assumptions and their consistency with findings from other areas of our audit and by performing sensitivity analyses.
The discount rates and long term growth rates applied within the model were assessed by an EY business valuation specialist, including comparison to economic and industry forecasts.
For the UBM Americas Print CGU, we performed sensitivity analyses by stress testing key assumptions in the model, to consider the degree to which these assumptions would need to change before an impairment of other CGU assets is triggered.
For all CGUs, we performed sensitivity analyses by stress testing key assumptions in the model to consider the degree to which these assumptions would need to change before an impairment charge is triggered.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures provided in the Group financial statements.
The risks of material misstatement are the same as in the prior year, unless indicated otherwise.
In addition, in 2014, our auditors report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to Changes in finance systems and processes, including capitalisation of, and subsequent accounting for, software costs.
We have not included this in our 2015 auditors report as the most significant elements of the finance transformation occurred in 2014, with only UBM Asia implementing the CORE financial system in 2015.
The majority of the associated costs were incurred prior to 2015 and the 2015 costs are not material.
90 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements The scope of our audit Changes from the prior year Tailoring the scope Following the acquisition of Advanstar in December 2014, in 2015 Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our a full years profit has been consolidated into the Groups income allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for statement.
We have designated Advanstar as a full scope audit each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to location in 2015 2014: specific scope.
Following the signing of the form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take conditional sale agreement for the sale of PR Newswire in December into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and 2015, its results are disclosed as discontinued in the Consolidated effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business income statement and its assets and liabilities are held for sale in environment and other factors such as recent Internal Audit review the Consolidated statement of financial position.
In light of the findings when assessing the level of work to be performed at disposal, we have reassessed the audit scope for PR Newswire to each entity.
In addition, we have included an additional China component as specific scope for 2015.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage Involvement with component teams of significant accounts in the financial statements, we selected In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we 12 2014: nine components covering entities within the UK, the determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each Netherlands, Hong Kong, China, and the United States, which of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, represent the principal business units within the Group.
Primary Team or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the seven full Of the 12 components selected, we performed an audit of the scope components, audit procedures were performed on three complete financial information of seven 2014: four components of these directly by the Primary Team and of the five specific scope full scope components which were selected based on their components, audit procedures were performed on one of these size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining five 2014: five directly by the Primary Team.
For the remaining four full scope and components specific scope components, we performed audit four specific scope components, where the work was performed procedures on specific accounts within that component that we by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence significant accounts in the financial statements either because had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned accounted for 85% 2014: 84% of the Groups Revenue, with full visits that has been designed to ensure that the Auditor and other scope components accounting for 64% 2014: 45% and specific members of the Primary Team visit each of the full and specific scope components accounting for 21% 2014: 39%.
The audit of scope locations.
During the current years audit cycle, planning specific scope components may not have included testing of all visits were undertaken by the Primary Team to the component significant accounts of the component but will have contributed teams in PR Newswire and UBM Asia.
These visits involved to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
In discussing the audit approach with the component team, addition to these 12 components, the primary team performed discussing key risk areas and any issues arising from their work, specified procedures over cash balances at three components.
meeting with local management and attending planning meetings.
In addition, year end visits were undertaken by the Primary Team to The risks of material misstatement of recognition of deferred tax the component teams in PR Newswire and UBM Asia.
These visits assets, valuation of acquired intangible assets, accounting for the involved discussing the results of the audit, discussing key risk conditional sale of PR Newswire and carrying value of goodwill areas, meeting management, attending closing meetings and were subject to full audit procedures by the Primary Team.
reviewing key audit working papers on risk areas.
The Primary Team interacted regularly with the component teams where Of the remaining components that together represent 15% the appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key Groups revenue, none are individually greater than 3% of the working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction Groups revenue.
For these components, we performed other of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our journals and intercompany eliminations and foreign currency opinion on the Group financial statements.
translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the The chart below illustrates the coverage obtained from the work audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the performed by our audit teams.
audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Revenue Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the 15% economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 9.0m 2014: 21% 6.9m, which is 5% 2014: 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
We believe that profit before tax and exceptional items 64% Full scope components provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining Speci ed scope materiality and is the most relevant performance measure to the Other proceedures stakeholders of UBM.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 91 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of UBM plc continued Materiality continued Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Continuing operations profit before tax of 119.6m disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Starting Discounted operations profit before tax of 18.1m basis assurance that the financial statements are free from material Total profit before tax of 137.7m misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate Adjusted to add back: to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and Adjustments net continuing exceptional excluding tax items of 13.0m have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the net discontinued exceptional items of 29.3m to determine total profit before tax and exceptionals of 180.0m reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Take 5% of this adjusted profit before tax, giving materiality Materiality of 9.0m in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality.
the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any Our initial materiality was based on forecast profit before tax and apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider exceptionals.
Actual materiality was 1.5m higher than our initial the implications for our report.
We did not adjust the allocated performance materiality applied by each component in performing our audit procedures.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement Performance materiality set out on page 83, the Directors are responsible for the The application of materiality at the individual account or balance preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with misstatements exceeds materiality.
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% 2014: 50% This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, of our planning materiality, namely 4.5m 2014: 3.5m.
We have in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law set performance materiality at this percentage due to the risk of the 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state continued implementation of the UBM-wide finance and reporting to the Companys members those matters we are required to state system, CORE, which went live in Asia during 2015. to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, undertaken based on a percentage of total performance or for the opinions we have formed.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group In addition, the Company has also instructed us to: as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that Report to you our opinion on whether the information given in component.
In the current year, the range of performance the Strategic Report and Directors Report is consistent with the materiality allocated to components was 0.9m to 1.7m 2014: Group and Parent Company financial statements: 0.9m to 1.5m.
Report to you our opinion on whether the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement is in compliance with Reporting threshold Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
6 of the An amount below which identified misstatements are considered Financial Conduct Authority FCA is consistent with the financial as being clearly trivial.
statements: and Report to you our opinion on whether the section of the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them Directors Remuneration Report that is described as being all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.4m 2014: 0.3m, audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences basis of preparation as described therein.
below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We did not increase our reporting threshold Our opinion on other matters requested by the Group and following the increase in final materiality.
the Company In our opinion: We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light The information given in the Strategic Report and Directors of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Report is consistent with the Group and Parent Company financial statements: The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement is in compliance with Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
6 of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA is consistent with the financial statements: and The section of the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as being audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation as described therein.
92 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the We have no exceptions reporting Annual Report is: to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Jersey We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions Law 1991 proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns adequate for our audit to report.
have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no exceptions requirements the directors statement, set out on page 47, in relation to going concern and longer-term to report.
viability set out on page 37: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to reporting to draw attention to in relation to: add or to draw attention to.
the Directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Alison Duncan for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, London 24 February 2016 1.
T he maintenance and integrity of the UBM plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
L egislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93
