INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TULLOW OIL PLC 3 Opinion on Financial In our opinion: Statements of Tullow the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Oil plc Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expense, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Accounting Policies with related notes 1 to 31 and the Company Accounting Policies with related notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Going concern and the As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the Directors assessment appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note af to the of the principal risks Financial Statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group that would threaten the on page 55. solvency or liquidity of We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Group the Directors confirmation on page 114 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on page 52 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note af to the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: the Directors explanation on page 78 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest risks of material effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts misstatement of the engagement team.
The Audit Committee has requested that while not required under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we include in our report any significant key observations in respect of these assessed risks of material misstatement.
com 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TULLOW OIL PLC CONTINUED Carrying value of Exploration and Evaluation E&E assets Risk description The carrying value of E&E assets at 31 December 2015 is $3,400.0 million, and the Group has written off E&E expenditure totalling $748.9 million in the year.
See note 11 for further details.
The assessment of the carrying value requires management to exercise judgement as described in the critical accounting judgements section of the Annual Report on page 128.
Managements assessment requires consideration of a number of factors, including but not limited to, the Groups intention to proceed with a future work programme for a prospect or licence, the likelihood of licence renewal, and the success of drilling and geological analysis to date.
How the scope We evaluated managements assessment of E&E assets carried forward with reference to the of our audit criteria of IFRS 6: Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources and the Groups accounting responded to policy see page 126.
In 2015, the Group has continued to review their exploration strategy and the risk geographical areas of exploration focus in the context of a lower oil price environment.
Our work has considered both of these factors.
The audit procedures we performed included obtaining an understanding of the Groups ongoing E&E activity by interviewing operational and finance staff at all key locations, and gathering audit evidence to assess the value of E&E assets carried forward.
Such evidence included approved project budgets, and confirmations of ongoing appraisal activity and the licence phase.
Where an asset has been impaired we have challenged management on the events that led to the impairment, including reference to future budgeted expenditure.
Where an asset has demonstrated indicators of impairment but has been retained on the balance sheet, we have gathered evidence in respect of the status of appraisal activity, allocation of budget and any conclusion on commerciality.
Key observations We are satisfied that the assets have been treated in accordance with the criteria of IFRS 6 and Tullows E&E accounting policy.
In some circumstances the costs of wells from exploration continue to be held on the balance sheet for a significant period of time while development consent is obtained, for example in Uganda where development is considered to be highly likely.
Based on the audit evidence we have gathered we are satisfied that management has reached these conclusions appropriately.
Carrying value of PP&E assets Risk description The Group holds PP&E assets of $5,204.4 million at 31 December 2015 and has recorded impairments of PP&E of $406.0 million in 2015.
See note 12 for further information.
As described in the critical accounting judgements section of the Annual Report on page 128, the assessment of the carrying value of PP&E assets requires management to exercise judgement in identifying indictors of impairment, such as a decrease in oil price or a downgrade of proved and probable reserves.
When such indicators are identified, management must make an estimate of the recoverable amount of the asset which is compared against the carrying value.
The calculation of the recoverable amount requires judgement in estimating future oil and gas prices, the applicable asset discount rate, and the cost and production profiles of reserves estimates.
How the scope We examined managements assessment of impairment indicators, which concluded that the of our audit fall in commodity prices represented an indicator of impairment for all oil and gas assets held responded to within PP&E.
the risk The assumptions that underpin managements calculation of the recoverable amount of oil and gas assets are inherently judgemental.
Our audit work therefore assessed the reasonableness of managements key judgements of the recoverable amount of each asset.
Specifically our work included, but was not limited to, the following procedures: benchmarking and analysis of oil and gas price assumptions against forward curves, peer information and other market data: agreement of hydrocarbon production profiles and proved and probable reserves to third party reserve reports: verification of estimated future costs by agreement to approved budgets and where applicable, third party data: and the recalculation and benchmarking of discount rates applied with involvement of Deloitte industry valuation specialists.
116 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 3 Key observations From the work performed, we are satisfied that the assets have been treated in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36: Impairment of Assets.
When considered in aggregate, we consider the assumptions adopted to be within a reasonable range.
Management has disclosed the impact of sensitivities of both the discount rate and commodity prices in the PP&E note on page 138.
Provision for tax claims Risk description The nature, rate and type of taxation which is applicable to hydrocarbon exploration and production activities varies widely by jurisdiction.
In addition, the Group is subject to various claims from local tax authorities in the normal course of its business.
Significant judgement is required to estimate the appropriate level of provision for the tax claims against the Group as the validity and ultimate outcome of such claims can be uncertain.
As such, the Group has included tax provisions in their disclosure of key sources of uncertainty on page 129.
How the scope We have challenged the assumptions made by management regarding each significant claim with of our audit Tullows tax team, such as their assessment of the likely outcome of the claim, and their estimate responded to of any future settlement value.
We have also evaluated the provisions and potential exposures the risk together with tax specialists within the audit team from the relevant jurisdictions.
Our audit work included review of correspondence with the relevant tax authorities and we used our knowledge of the specific tax regimes to challenge the Groups assumptions and judgements regarding the level of provisions made.
Key observations We are satisfied that the judgements made by management are reasonable, based on the audit evidence gathered.
The settlement of the Ugandan Capital Gains Tax dispute in the year has significantly reduced the overall tax exposure.
There remain a number of claims where the Group believes there is a low probability of adverse outcomes due to the locations and industry in which the Group operates.
Going concern Risk description The Group is dependent upon its ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet scheduled loan repayments and covenant requirements and hence to operate within its existing debt facilities.
Commodity price volatility in the oil and gas sector has placed increased pressure on these cash flows and the ability of the Group to comply in the future with covenant ratios.
How the scope Managements going concern forecasts include a number of assumptions on future cash flows, of our audit associated risks, and covenant compliance.
Our audit work has focused on evaluating and responded to challenging the reasonableness of these assumptions and their impact on the forecast period.
the risk Specifically, we obtained, challenged and assessed managements going concern forecasts, and performed procedures, including: Challenging management as to the reasonableness of pricing assumptions applied, based on the benchmarking of market data: Verifying the consistency of key inputs relating to future costs and production to other financial and operational information obtained during our audit: Reviewing key loan agreements, and past and forecast loan covenant calculations, and obtaining and reviewing correspondence with the lead arrangers of the RBL and RCF facilities with regards to the risk of non-compliance with financial covenant ratios: and Performing sensitivity analysis on managements base case, including applying potential downside scenarios such as lower oil prices and business interruption.
Key observations Management has concluded that the going concern basis remains appropriate after performing a detailed forecast of the liquidity and covenant compliance for a period of 12 months from the date of approval of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
In reaching their conclusion, they have considered the impact of possible downside scenarios and their ability to take mitigating actions if required, in advance of any such scenario threatening the maintenance of liquidity or covenant compliance.
We are satisfied that managements going concern assessment is appropriate as stated above.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 81.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
com 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TULLOW OIL PLC CONTINUED Our application of We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it materiality probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $60 million 2014: $80 million, which is below 6% of pre-tax loss, and below 2% of equity.
The decrease in materiality in 2015 reflects the decrease in the Groups net assets following the impairments recorded in the year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all audit differences in excess of $1.6 million 2014: $1.6 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the Our Group audit scope for the current and prior year included a full audit of all seven 2014: eight scope of our audit reporting unit locations, based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups business operations at those locations.
These seven reporting units account for 100% of the Groups total revenue, profit before tax and net assets.
The materialities used for these components ranged from $20 million to $35 million.
The Group team audits the UK, Kenya and Uganda reporting units directly.
Their involvement in the work performed by component auditors varies by location and includes, at a minimum, a review of the reports provided on the results of the work undertaken by the component audit teams.
In addition, the Senior Statutory Auditor or senior members of his Group audit team visited the following reporting locations in the year: Gabon, Ghana, Kenya, and Uganda to direct and review the audit work performed by the component auditors.
At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Opinion on other In our opinion: matters prescribed the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared by the Companies in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Act 2006 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Matters on which Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records we are required to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: report by exception we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
118 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 3 Respective As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible responsibilities of for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair Directors and view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in auditor accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements of the Financial sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material Statements misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Dean Cook MA FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 9 February 2016 www.
