239795 UKCPT pp24-pp42 25 04 2016 10:58 Page 37 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of UK Commercial Property Trust Limited Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law 2008.
What we have audited UK Commercial Property Trust Limiteds financial statements comprise: Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2015 Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 December 2015 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31 December 2015 Related notes 1 to 19 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material Fair valuation of the property portfolio misstatement Recognition of rental income Calculation of management fees Audit scope We performed an audit of the financial statements of UK Commercial Property Trust Limited, and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 Materiality Materiality of 11.27 million which represents 1% of net assets 2014: 10.8 million.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 37 239795 UKCPT pp24-pp42 25 04 2016 10:58 Page 38 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of UK Commercial Property Trust Limited continued Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Fair valuation of the property Based on the work performed, we have We performed the following procedures: portfolio as described on page 31-33 in no matters to report.
We identified and performed walkthe Audit Committee Report.
throughs on controls over the valuation The valuation of the portfolio at process operated by Standard Life 31 December 2015 was 1,312 million Investments the Manager, as 2014: 1,216 million.
described in their AAF 01 06 Internal Controls report dated 30 September 2015 The valuation of the properties held in the the AAF, in order to gain an investment portfolio is the key driver of understanding of the process and identify the Groups net asset value and total the key points in the process where the return.
Incorrect property valuation could valuation of investment properties could have a significant impact on the net asset be materially misstated.
This report value of the Group and, therefore, the included the period 1 January 2015 to return generated for shareholders.
For the period 1 October 2015 to 31 December 2015 we enquired of the Manager and observed the month end valuation process, to confirm that no substantive changes had occurred in the valuation process since 30 September 2015.
We engaged our own valuation experts to discuss and challenge the valuation of a sample of properties by assessing the reasonableness of the valuation methodologies used.
We independently corroborated the key inputs and assumptions relating to equivalent yield and rental rates consistent with published market data and comparable transaction evidence through market activity.
We read all third party valuation reports to agree the appropriateness and suitability of the reported values and confirmed that the changes in value from the previous accounting period were consistent with our expectations.
We assessed the independence and competence of the valuers.
We agreed the value of all the properties held at 31 December 2015, and as reported in the financial statements, to the open market valuations included in the valuation reports provided by the Groups independent valuers.
38 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 239795 UKCPT pp24-pp42 25 04 2016 10:58 Page 39 Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Based on the work performed, we have Recognition of rental income as We performed the following procedures: no matters to report.
described on pages 31-33 in the Audit We understood the rental income process Committee Report.
through walk through procedures to During the year, the Group recognised identify any non-standard patterns arising 69.6 million 2014: 70.6 million of as a result of discounted rent free periods rental income.
and other lease incentives Rental income received by the Group We performed detailed substantive during the period directly drives the analytical review procedures on rental Groups ability to make a dividend income to identify any items that did not payment to shareholders.
Incomplete or meet our expectations and income inaccurate rental income recognition, budgets.
taking into account any lease incentives, On a sample basis, we agreed rental rates could have a significant impact on profit to tenancy agreements and bank or loss of the Group, which could then statements.
For a sample of tenancy impact the dividend paid to shareholders.
agreements with lease incentives, we recalculated the lease incentive and assessed the appropriateness of the accounting treatment in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Calculation of management fees as We performed the following procedures: Based on the work performed, we have described on pages 31-33 in the Audit no matters to report.
We identified and performed walkCommittee Report.
throughs on controls over the During the year, the Group paid management fee process operated by the 8.8 million 2014: 8.2 million in Manager, as described in their AAF in management fees.
order to gain an understanding of the process and identify the key points in the process where the management fee could be materially misstated.
This report included the period 1 January 2015 to 30 September 2015.
For the period 1 October 2015 to 31 December 2015 we enquired of management and observed the quarter four management fee process, to confirm that no substantive changes had occurred since 30 September 2015.
We performed a recalculation of the management fee for all four quarters in accordance with the Investment Management Agreement IMA.
We validated the inputs used in the calculations by using Board Papers Interim Accounts and financial statements figures within the recalculation.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 39 239795 UKCPT pp24-pp42 25 04 2016 10:58 Page 40 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of UK Commercial Property Trust Limited continued The scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for the Group.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of controls, including controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed.
The Group consists of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined planning materiality for the Group to be 11.27 million which is 1% of net assets 2014: 10.8 million, 1% of net assets.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of our risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
We derived our materiality calculation from a proportion of net assets as we consider that to be the most important financial metric on which shareholders judge the performance of the Group.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 75% of planning materiality, being 8.5 million 2014: 75% of materiality, namely 8.1 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report all audit differences in excess of 0.56 million 2014: 0.54 million as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 36, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
40 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 239795 UKCPT pp24-pp42 25 04 2016 10:58 Page 41 This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial We have no reporting information in the annual report is: exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Guernsey We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no Law 2008 reporting exceptions to adequate accounting records have not been kept: or report.
the Group financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no requirements exceptions to the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 25, and report.
longer-term viability, set out on page 10: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 41 239795 UKCPT pp24-pp42 25 04 2016 10:58 Page 42 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of UK Commercial Property Trust Limited continued Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to We have nothing reporting add or to draw attention to in relation to: material to add or to draw your the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a attention to.
robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
David Robert John Moore, ACA for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Guernsey, Channel Islands Date: 20 April 2016 42 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
