84 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Independent auditors report Independent auditors report To the members of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Opinion on financial statements of In our opinion: Ultra Electronics Holdings plc the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related notes 1 to 48.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Going concern and the Directors assessment As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the of the principal risks that would threaten appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting and the Directors statement on the the solvency or liquidity of the group longer-term viability of the Group, which are both contained within the strategic report on page 27 to the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 27 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 37 to 41 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the statement of accounting policies on page 123 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 27 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 85 Independent auditors report continued Our assessment of risks of material The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect misstatement on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Ithra related provisions Refer to page 129 critical accounting Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the judgements and key sources of estimation design and implementation of controls over the uncertainty assessment of Ithra related accuracy of Ithra related provisions.
provisions : and page 66 Audit Committee To challenge managements judgements we have report significant judgements considered.
reviewed correspondence relating to the contract termination by the customer, and subsequently During the period, the Oman Airport IT with the liquidator appointed for Ithra.
In Contract was terminated and subsequently Ithra addition, we have reviewed legal correspondence a jointly owned subsidiary in Oman was placed between the Group and its external legal counsel.
At 31 December 2014, the Group recognised a 37.2m provision against We have obtained third party evidence for all contract receivables and a 9.7m provision for known costs to be incurred including specific other termination costs.
At 31 December 2015 legal and supplier liabilities.
management continues to provide for all known For costs incurred during the year, we have traced liabilities, where they can be reliably estimated.
a sample back to supporting third party evidence, A liquidator was apponted for Ithra and is and used these actual costs incurred to challenge pursuing claims against the customer on behalf the accuracy of anticipated costs to come.
of interested parties, consequently there We have continued to assess the recoverability remains significant uncertainty regarding the of contract balances and associated costs of likely outcome of these negotations.
recovering these contract balances through our The material and uncertain nature of these review of correspondence relating to the balances means that we consider the accuracy negotiations and the likely timing of any receipt of these estimated values to be a key audit risk.
Revenue recognition Refer to page 128 critical accounting judgements Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the and key sources of estimation uncertainty design and implementation of controls over longassessment of contract accounting : page 125 term contract accounting.
accounting policies revenue recognition : and To confirm that revenue and profit recognised page 66 Audit Committee report significant to date are based on the current best estimate judgements considered.
of the degree of work performed under the Revenue recognition is a risk area, specifically contract, we selected a sample of contracts and in relation to: reviewed the contract risk registers and evidence for the progress made against the Significant long term contracts.
Subject to contract, such as milestone completion, to meeting certain criteria, Ultra Electronics provide evidence over the judgement taken adopts long term contract accounting for a when providing for the cost of mitigating number of its contracts.
Revenue recognised technical risks and meeting future milestones.
on this basis in the year was 371.6m.
In these We also sought to verify the costs to complete circumstances, a number of judgements are by agreeing to evidence of committed spend, undertaken which specifically impact the extent budgeted rates or actual costs incurred to date.
of revenue and profit recognised, including: determing the total contract value: estimating We understood and challenged managements the costs to completion and within this assumptions by referring to evidence including judgements relating to the provision for the cost signed contract terms and latest project status of mitigating technical risks and meeting future reports, and discussed contract progress and milestones: and assessing the percentage of future risks with contract engineers.
We also contract completion at the balance sheet date.
assessed the reliability of management estimates through consideration of the historical accuracy of prior period management estimates.
For each contract selected for testing, we made enquiries as to any unusual contract terms or side agreements separate to the original contract, in addition to detail testing of a sample of billings and costs incurred to date.
Introduction 86 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Independent auditors report Independent auditors report continued To the members of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Our assessment of risks of material Risk How the scope of our audit responded misstatement continued to the risk Revenue recognition continued Delivery of goods, due to the complex Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the contractual terms with regards to the transfer design and implementation of controls around of risk and reward that arise within the revenue recognition.
Aerospace and Defence industry and therefore We reviewed contractual evidence to understand whether revenue has been appropriately how the specific terms in respect of the transfer recognised.
The complexity is increased as of risk and reward had been met.
Then we individual business units enter into different performed a sample test of sales recognised either contractual terms with different customers for side of the year end, and outstanding trade similar products.
receivables to substantiate whether the appropriate terms of the relevant contracts had been satisfied and that the risks and rewards associated with the contract had passed to the customer.
We used external evidence, such as shipping documentation or client acceptance documentation to confirm that revenue had been recognised in the appropriate period.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Refer to page 129 critical accounting judgements Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the and key sources of estimation uncertainty design and implementation of controls over goodwill impairment : page 126 accounting monitoring the carrying value of goodwill and policies intangible assets : and page 66 acquired intangibles.
Audit Committee report significant We challenged managements revised approach judgements considered.
to the level at which goodwill is monitored for impairment purposes through a review of the The Group recognised 375.9m of goodwill and level at which cashflows are internally reported 173.6m of acquired intangibles at 31 December by management, evidence of the Groups 2015.
There is a risk regarding the potential capabilities through its go-to-market strategy, impairment of the carrying value of these assets and confirmation of managements revised internal given the judgements management are required process for monitoring goodwill for impairment.
to make in respect of the assumptions used to We further challenged the risk of management bias determine their recoverable amount.
This is by recalculating the annual assessment of goodwill further heightened by the challenging economic impairment under the previous methodology environment in which the Group operates and the where goodwill was allocated to individual CGUs.
decline in organic revenue and organic underlying operating profit for the Group in 2015.
We challenged the assumptions used by management in their impairment assessment by The key judgements include identification of using valuation specialists within the audit team to cash generating units and challenging the level benchmark the discount rate against independently at which management monitor goodwill for available data, together with peer group analysis, impairment purposes given the change in our understanding of the secured orders methodology in the period from an individual underpinning the Groups cashflow forecasts, CGU level to a group of CGUs, growth rates in and the historical performance of the businesses.
future cashflow forecasts both short term and longer term, discount rates applied to these Having audited the assumptions, we checked forecasts, and determining the impact of that the impairment model had been prepared reasonably possible changes in these assumptions.
on the basis of managements assumptions and was arithmetically accurate.
We challenged the appropriateness of managements sensitivities based on our work performed on the key assumptions, and recalculated these sensitised scenarios.
With regards to the disclosures within the Annual Report, we are satisfied that they appropriately reflect the facts and circumstances within managements assessment of impairment over goodwill and acquired intangibles, with sufficient explanation provided for the change in level at which goodwill is monitored.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 87 Independent auditors report continued Our assessment of risks of material Risk How the scope of our audit responded misstatement continued to the risk Acquisition accounting Refer to page 129 critical accounting Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the judgements and key sources of estimation design and implementation of controls over uncertainty acquisition accounting : acquisition accounting.
page 124 accounting policies business For the current year acquisitions, we made use of combinations : and page 66 Audit Committee our valuations specialists to support our review report significant issues considered.
of the acquisition accounting, and in particular the valuation of acquired intangible assets During the year, the Group entered into two identified.
We obtained calculations for the fair business combinations, being the Electronic value adjustments for these acquisitions and Products Division of Kratos Defense & Security assessed whether the period of assessment was Solutions and Furnace Parts LLC.
In aggregate, correct as well as confirming that the adjustment 172.5m was paid in respect of these acquisitions.
was supported by actual trading data.
There is a risk that acquisitions are not There was no contingent consideration on the accounted for correctly in line with IFRS 3 current year acquisitions.
We confirmed this Business Combinations.
The risk relates to the against the signed sale and purchase agreements.
assumptions and assertions used by management to forecast future trading performance to For historical acqusitions we compared the determine both the fair value of acquired assets forecast contingent consideration positions to and future contingent consideration payments.
the post year end trading results, approved budgets and historical levels of settlement.
Pensions Refer to page 129 critical accounting Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the judgements and key sources of estimation design and implementation of controls over the uncertainty pensions : page 125 accounting accounting for defined benefit pension schemes.
policies pensions : and page 66 Audit We included pension specialists within our audit Committee report significant issues considered.
team to assess the appropriateness of the The Group operates four defined benefit assumptions through benchmarking to industry pension schemes, for which there is judgement data, and methodology used to value the defined required in determining the valuation as benefit pension schemes at the balance sheet date.
recorded at the balance sheet date, in In addition, we circularised the independent accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
At actuary and investment managers responsible 31 December 2015, these four schemes had a for managing the pension fund to confirm the total net IAS 19 deficit of 84.8m.
source inputs into the pension valuation.
This The valuation is based on a number of assumptions provided assurance over the completeness of on both a micro and a macro-economic level as the pension assets and the valuation for which disclosed in the notes to the accounts.
we further agreed a sample to publically available asset valuations.
The risks described above have not changed from prior year, with the exception that we have no longer included the significant risk in relation to completeness of warranty provisions due to the nature of the Groups warranty commitments going forwards.
The description of risks should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 66.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Introduction 88 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Independent auditors report continued Independent auditors report continued To the members of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We have used professional judgement in determining an appropriate materiality benchmark.
This includes consideration of alternative benchmarks.
Underlying pre-tax profit is a key performance measure for the Group and it is therefore an appropriate basis on which to determine materiality.
However we do adjust underlying pre-tax profit as presented by management, by deducting amortisation of acquired intangibles.
The Group has established a track record of making acquisitions and hence we consider amortisation of acquired intangibles to be relevant when considering our basis for determining materiality.
On this basis, we determined materiality for the group to be 5.7 million 2014: 6.2 million, which represents 7% 2014: 7% of adjusted underlying pre-tax profit.
The decrease in materiality is due to a larger amortisation of acquired intangible assets in 2015 due to the acquisitions in the period.
The determined materiality equates to 2% 2014: 2% of equity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 114,000 2014: 124,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 24 2014: 25 locations, 14 2014: 14 of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining 10 2014: 11 were subject to either an audit of specified account balances or specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
These 24 2014: 25 locations represent the principal business units and account for 85% 2014: 87% of the Groups net assets, 90% 2014: 91% of the Groups revenue and 85% 2014: 91% of the Groups underlying operating profit.
They also provided an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the 24 2014: 25 units was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team follows a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the significant overseas components locations at least once every three years.
Every year, regardless of whether we have visited or not, we include the component audit partner and other senior members of the component audit team in our team briefing, direct the scope of their work for the purposes of our Group audit, discuss their risk assessment and review documentation of the findings from their work Opinion on other matters prescribed by In our opinion: the Companies Act 2006 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 89 Independent auditors report continued Matters on which we are required to Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records report by exceptions Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the and auditor preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team [and independent partner reviews].
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Kerr Mitchell FCA, Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom 26 February 2016 6.
