INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS NETHERLANDS KPMG ACCOUNTANTS N. V. UNITED KINGDOM KPMG LLP TO: THE GENERAL MEETING OF UNILEVER N. V. TO: THE MEMBERS OF UNILEVER PLC ONLY For the purpose of these reports, the terms we and our denote KPMG Accountants N. V. in relation to the Netherlands responsibilities and reporting obligations to the General Meeting of Unilever N. V. and KPMG LLP in relation to UK responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of Unilever PLC.
The Unilever Group the Group consists of Unilever PLC, Unilever N. V. and the entities they controlled during the financial year.
The reports of KPMG Accountants N. V. and KPMG LLP are presented in the left and right hand columns of this report respectively.
Where separate columns are not presented, the content of the reports of KPMG Accountants N. V. and KPMG LLP are identical.
The financial statements the Financial Statements comprise: the consolidated financial statements of the Group the Consolidated Financial Statements : the parent company financial statements of Unilever N. V. the NV Company Accounts : and the parent company financial statements of Unilever PLC the PLC Company Accounts, each of which are defined below.
Materiality was set at Unqualified 350 million audit opinion 2014: 350 million Materiality Key audit Revenue recognition Audits at a Audit scope Indirect tax provisions component level matters and contingencies resulting in a coverage of 70% Direct tax of revenue provisions and 2014: 63% contingencies OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 1.
OUR OPINIONS ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ARE UNMODIFIED We have audited the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015, the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended and notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In addition, KPMG Accountants N. V. has audited the NV Company Accounts which comprise the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015, the company profit and loss account for 2015 and the notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information and KPMG LLP has audited the PLC Company Accounts which comprise the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 and the notes to the PLC Company Accounts, including the summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In our opinion: In our opinion: the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair the Consolidated Financial Statements and the PLC Company view of the financial position of the Group as at 31 December Accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups 2015 and of its result and its cash flows for the year then and of Unilever PLCs affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting the Groups profit for the year then ended: Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS as the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly adopted by the EU and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the prepared in accordance with International Financial Netherlands Civil Code: and Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union the NV Company Accounts give a true and fair view of the IFRS as adopted by the EU : financial position of Unilever N. V. as at 31 December 2015 the PLC Company Accounts have been properly prepared in and of its result for 2015 in accordance with United accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, Kingdom accounting standards, including FRS 101 including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Reduced Disclosure Framework and Part 9 of Book 2 both the Consolidated Financial Statements and the PLC of the Netherlands Civil Code.
Company Accounts have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as Basis for our opinion regards the Consolidated Financial Statements, Article 4 We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, of the IAS Regulation.
including the Dutch Standards on Auditing.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the responsibilities section of our report.
International Accounting Standards Board IASB As explained in the accounting policies set out in the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is Consolidated Financial Statements, the Group, in addition to sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRS as adopted by the EU, has also applied IFRS as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements 85 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS CONTINUED 2.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial Statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit key audit matters were as set out below and are unchanged from 2014.
These are the matters that, in our professional judgement, had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We have communicated these matters to the Audit Committee.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context and solely for the purposes of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not express discrete opinions on these matters.
Revenue recognition The risk Revenue is measured taking account of discounts, incentives and rebates earned by customers on the Groups sales.
Due to the multitude and variety of contractual terms across the Groups markets, the estimation of discounts, incentives and rebates recognised based on sales made during the year is considered to be complex.
Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of the underlying products have been transferred to the customer.
There is a risk that revenue may be overstated because of fraud resulting from the pressure local management may feel to achieve performance targets at the reporting period end.
The Group focuses on revenue as a key performance measure which could create an incentive for revenue to be recognised before the risks and rewards have been transferred.
Our response Our audit procedures included considering the appropriateness of the Groups revenue recognition accounting policies including those relating to discounts, incentives and rebates and assessing compliance with the policies in terms of applicable accounting standards.
We tested the effectiveness of the Groups controls over calculation of discounts, incentives and rebates and correct timing of revenue recognition.
We assessed sales transactions taking place at either side of the balance sheet date as well as credit notes issued after the year end date to assess whether that revenue was recognised in the correct period.
We also developed an expectation of the current year revenue balance based on trend analysis information taking into account historical weekly sales and returns information and our understanding of each market.
We then compared this expectation to actual results.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in note 2 in respect of revenue.
Indirect tax provisions and contingencies The risk Provisions for indirect tax require the Directors to make judgements and estimates in relation to the issues and exposures.
In Brazil one of the Groups largest markets the complex nature of the local tax regulations and jurisprudence make this a particular area of significant judgement.
Our response Our audit procedures included testing the effectiveness of the Groups controls around the recording and re-assessment of tax provisions.
Furthermore, our procedures included using our own indirect tax and legal specialists to consider the level of provisions required in light of the nature of the Groups exposures, applicable regulations and the Groups correspondence with the authorities.
We assessed relevant historical and recent judgements passed by the court authorities in considering any legal precedent or case law, as well as assessing legal opinions from third party lawyers.
We also gained an understanding of the Groups provisioning methodology and challenged assumptions using the knowledge and experience of our own specialists.
In addition, we obtained formal confirmations from the Groups external counsel, where appropriate.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in note 19 made in relation to indirect tax provisions and contingencies.
Direct tax provisions and contingencies The risk The Group has extensive international operations and in the normal course of business the Directors make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures.
This is a key judgement due to the Group operating in a number of tax jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer pricing and other tax legislation.
Our response Our audit procedures included testing the effectiveness of the Groups controls around the recording and continuous re-assessment of tax provisions.
Our own tax specialists performed an assessment of the Groups correspondence with relevant tax authorities, to consider the completeness of tax provisions for all associated risks.
We also challenged the assumptions used, taking into consideration our own tax specialists knowledge and experience.
In addition, we assessed relevant judgements passed by authorities in considering any need for a provision, as well as assessing relevant opinions from third parties.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in note 20 in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
For each risk noted above refer to related disclosure within the Report of the Audit Committee page 60, accounting policies and financial disclosures within the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
86 Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Materiality Based on our professional judgement the materiality for the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole was set at 350 million 2014: 350 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation of which it represents 4.8% 2014: 4.6%.
We also take misstatements into account that are in our opinion material for qualitative reasons.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it any corrected and uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 25 million in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Scope of our audit The Group operates through a significant number of legal entities, these form reporting components which are primarily based on country.
To provide sufficient coverage over the Groups significant risks, we performed audits for Group reporting purposes of 13 components 2014: 13 components, as well as audits of revenue and the related accounts receivable balances at a further 10 components 2014: 5 components.
The further 10 components were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes but were included in the scope of our Group reporting work in order to provide further coverage over the Groups revenue.
The Group has 5 centralised operating centres that perform accounting and reporting activities alongside related controls.
Together these operating centres process a substantial portion of the Groups transactions.
The outputs from the centralised operating centres are included in the financial information of the component entities they service and therefore they are not separate reporting components.
Each of the operating centres is subject to specified audit procedures.
Further audit procedures are performed at each reporting component to cover matters not covered at the centralised operating centres.
Together this results in audits for Group reporting purposes on those reporting components.
The percentages of the Groups Revenue, Profit before Taxation and Total Assets represented by the components within the scope of our work and procedures performed at corporate level are as follows: GROUP REVENUE GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION TOTAL ASSETS 5% 9% 2014: 22% 2014: 3% 25% 30% 51% 2014: 30% 39% 86% 2014: 37% 2014: 51% 2014: 57% 2014: 75% 19% 36% 2014: 12% 2014: 13% Audits for Group Reporting Purposes Audits of Account Balances Other Components The remaining 30% of Group Revenue and 25% of Group Profit before Taxation is represented by a significant number of components, Other Components none of which individually represents more than 2% of Group Revenue and or Group Profit before Taxation.
A substantial portion of these Other Components utilise the five operating centres and are therefore subject to audit procedures performed at these operating centres.
In addition, for these Other Components, we performed analysis focusing specifically on revenue and operating margins at the aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there are no significant risks of material misstatement within these components.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the significant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved component materiality levels, which ranged from 5 million to 275 million 2014: 5 million to 275 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on all components was performed by component auditors.
The Group audit team visited locations in the USA, India, Indonesia, Switzerland, Brazil, South Africa, Russia, Singapore, China, Mexico, Thailand, Australia, Poland, Kenya, Philippines and Zimbabwe 2014: the USA, the UK, the Netherlands, India, Indonesia, Switzerland, Brazil, South Africa, Germany, Turkey, Russia, Singapore, China, Mexico and Argentina.
Telephone and or online meetings were also held with the auditors of these components and the majority of all other components.
The findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail with component auditors, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements 87 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS CONTINUED 4.
OTHER REPORTING Our report on the Report of the Directors and the other Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies information is unmodified Act 2006 is unmodified Pursuant to the legal requirement under Part 9 of Book 2 In our opinion: of the Netherlands Civil Code: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited we have no deficiencies to report as a result of our has been properly prepared in accordance with the examination whether the Report of the Directors, to the Companies Act 2006: and extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors with Part 9 of Book 2 of this Code, and whether the Report for the financial year is consistent with the Consolidated information as required under Part 9 of Book 2 has been Financial Statements and the PLC Company Accounts.
annexed: and Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the further we report that the Report of the Directors, to the course of the audit of the Financial Statements and from reading extent we can assess, is consistent with the Consolidated the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: Financial Statements and the NV Company Accounts as we have not identified material misstatements in those required by Article 2:391 sub 4 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
reports: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in Engagement accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We have been engaged by the General Meeting at 14 May 2015 as auditor of Unilever N. V. since the audit of year 2014 and we are We have nothing to report on the disclosure of principal risks the statutory auditor since that date up until today.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Independence the directors viability statement on pages 53 to 54, concerning We are independent of the Unilever Group in accordance with the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the the Regulation regarding the Independence of Auditors in directors assessment and expectations of the Groups the case of Assurance Engagements Verordening inzake fide continuing operation over the three years to 2018: or onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten the disclosure in note 1 of the financial statements ViO and other relevant independence regulations in the concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
Furthermore we have complied with the Regulation Code of Conduct and Professional Practice Auditors We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which Verordening gedrags-en beroepsregels accountants VGBA.
we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Consolidated Financial Statements and or the PLC Company Accounts, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by Unilever PLC, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the PLC Company Accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 84 and pages 53 to 54, in relation to going concern and longer term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 50 to 52 relating to Unilever PLCs compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
88 Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES Directors and Audit Committees responsibilities Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the preparation and fair presentation of the Consolidated Statement set out on page 84, the Directors are responsible for Financial Statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the EU and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, and the PLC Company Accounts and for being satisfied that they give for the preparation of the Report of the Directors in accordance a true and fair view.
with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code: the preparation and fair presentation of the N. V. Company Scope of an audit of financial statements Accounts in accordance with United Kingdom accounting A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements standards and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code: is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at and www.
such internal control as management determines is This report is made solely to Unilever PLCs members as a body necessary to enable the preparation of the Financial and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers Statements that are free from material misstatement, regarding our responsibilities which can be accessed on our whether due to fraud or error.
com uk auditscopeukco2014b, and are In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be responsible for assessing the Groups and Unilever N. V. s ability read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, to continue as a going concern.
Based on the financial reporting the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
frameworks mentioned, the Directors should prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements and NV Company Accounts using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group and or Unilever N. V. or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors should disclose in the Financial Statements events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the Groups and or Unilever N. V. s ability to continue as a going concern.
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups financial reporting process.
Auditors responsibilities Our objective is to plan and perform the audit assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion.
Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all errors and fraud.
For more information about an audit of financial statements, we refer to the NBA website: www.
SIGNING Eric van Leeuwen Paul Korolkiewicz External auditor Senior Statutory Auditor KPMG Accountants N. V. for and on behalf of KPMG LLP Amsterdam Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 17 February 2016 London 17 February 2016 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements 89
