Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 121 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Vedanta Resources plc Opinion on financial statements of Vedanta Resources plc The Group has recognised PP&E assets with a net book value of In our opinion: US$17,937.9 million at 31 March 2015 and has recorded impairments against PP&E of US$2,214.4 million in 2015. the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 March For more information see Notes 2 b, 5 and 17 in the financial 2015 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: statements that provide further details and disclosures to this the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in matter.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: How the scope of our audit responded to the risk the parent Company financial statements have been properly We have: prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted audited managements assessment as to whether indicators of Accounting Practice: and impairment exist for operating assets, specifically, in relation to the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Rajasthan producing assets, the Lanjigarh expansionary the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the project, the iron ore operations in Goa and Karnataka and the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
KCM copper operations in Zambia: obtained and assessed the valuation models used to determine The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income the higher of value in use or fair value less cost of disposal of the Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, relevant asset by challenging the key assumptions made by the Consolidated and parent Company Balance Sheets, the management in relation to these models, including: Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of the expected timings of approvals and renewal of licences: Changes in Equity, and the related Notes 1 to 59.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the source of reserve and production estimates: Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by resources to reserves conversion ratios where applicable: the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been exchange rates: and applied in the preparation of the parent Company financial operating and capital expenditure estimates statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
by reference to independent third party evidence and consultation with operational management: Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors benchmarking and analysis of commodity, oil and gas price statement contained within the strategic report that the Group is a assumptions against forward curves and analyst data: going concern.
We confirm that: recalculated and benchmarked discount rates applied to third we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern party evidence and involvement of Deloitte valuation specialists: basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements testing the mechanical accuracy of the models used: is appropriate: and assessed whether assumptions had been determined and applied we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast on a consistent basis across the Group: and significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going assessed the procedures performed by management during the concern.
year to progress the approval of environmental clearances where these remain outstanding.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability Impairment of evaluation and exploration E&E assets to continue as a going concern.
Following significant downward pressure on oil, gas and other commodity prices, which are a key assumption in the valuation of Our assessment of risks of material misstatement the recoverable value of E&E assets, a new risk has been included in The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are our audit opinion in 2015. those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the The assessment of the carrying value of E&E assets requires engagement team.
management to exercise judgement around complex areas, as described in the Groups critical accounting judgements on page Risk 144.
Economic value can often be difficult to determine given the Impairment of property, plant and equipment PP&E assets relatively early stages of development.
The areas of judgement There is a risk associated with the assessment of the recoverable include the groups intention to proceed with a future work amount of certain operating assets included within PP&E, programme for a prospect or licence, the likelihood of licence specifically: renewal or extension and the success of drilling and geological the Rajasthan producing assets within the Oil & Gas business analysis.
following a significant decrease in oil prices: the Lanjigarh expansionary program within the Aluminium The net book value of E&E assets at 31 March 2015 is US$5,414.1 business unit which remains on hold pending environmental million after the Group has written off E&E assets totalling clearances being obtained: US$4,480.0 million in the year.
the operations in Goa and Karnataka within the Iron Ore business For more information see Notes 2 b, 5 and 17 in the financial unit as a result of lower iron ore prices and mining approval statements that provide further details and disclosures to this pending in Goa following state-wide bans on iron ore mining: and matter.
the KCM operations in Zambia following lower copper prices and continuing operational challenges.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 122 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of Vedanta Resources plc We evaluated managements assessment of the potential Litigation, environmental and regulatory risk impairment indicators on its E&E assets with reference to the criteria As is the norm in extractive industries, there are a significant of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources and number of legal claims in the Group and a risk exists that the Group the Groups successful efforts accounting policy see page 137.
In may not have provided adequately for liabilities.
There is also a risk 2015, the Group has reconsidered its exploration strategy and of the Groups reputation being brought into disrepute resulting in locations for future exploration focus in the context of a lower oil financial and reputational damage.
and commodity price environment and the availability of capital in these circumstances.
The Group continues to be involved in a high number of legal claims.
It is not unusual for claims to remain outstanding for a number of Our procedures included understanding the Groups ongoing E&E years, with the regulatory environment becoming increasingly activity, by participating in meetings with operational and finance complex and regulators focusing on the environmental and social management at all key locations and obtaining evidence including impacts.
These ongoing claims, environmental and regulatory reviewing minutes of board and executive committee meetings, enquiries are a threat to the future operations as well as the Groups confirmations of budget allocation, the results of on-going appraisal current financial performance and reputation.
activity and the licensing status to assess E&E assets.
For more information see Notes 30, 38 and 42 in the financial Where indicators of impairment were identified, we determined statements that provide further details and disclosures to these whether management provided in full for the projects that are matters.
notexpected to proceed or valuations were performed where the projects are progressing but the carrying value may not be fully We have: recoverable.
reviewed managements legal paper and challenged their assessment of the probability of success in these cases, the Where valuations were prepared, we challenged the key magnitude of any potential loss and their conclusions reached assumptions using the same approach as described under the through discussions with the head of legal and operational impairment of PPE assets above.
management: inspected external legal opinions where considered necessary Revenue recognition and other evidence that supports factual information in IAS 18 Revenue and the Groups revenue recognition policy permits managements responses: and revenue to be recognised only when the risks and rewards of focused our procedures on the terms and conditions of mining ownership have transferred from the seller to the buyer.
licenses and performed procedures to gain assurance over the compliance and validity of all mining licences and environmental The risk is related to: clearances.
inappropriate recognition of sales made during the year on a bill and hold or consignment basis: We have assessed the appropriateness of provisions and considered incorrect valuation of provisionally priced sales where the pricing the impact of the procedures performed above on the financial is only finalised based on market prices subsequent to the statements and whether the disclosures therein are in accordance balance sheet date : with IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
the value of regulated sales, and the resulting year-end receivable of US$114.0 million, made to the Grid Corporation of Odisha Taxation Limited Gridco where a dispute regarding the interpretation of There is a risk that the Groups aggregated taxation exposure in all the tariff agreement is pending appellate tribunal resolution: and jurisdictions, including the exposure to withholding taxes following past acquisitions, financing and transfer pricing arrangements, sales the calculation of Cairns oil and gas sales on an entitlement taxes and recognition of deferred taxation assets and liabilities, may basis.
not have been adequately valued and disclosed in the financial statements due to the complexities, timescales for resolution and For more information see Notes 2a and 4 in the financial statements the need to negotiate with various tax authorities.
that provide further details and disclosures to this matter.
In the current year, Cairn India received an order form the Indian Tax We have reviewed the application of the Groups revenue Authority for an amount of US$3,274.4 million relating to recognition policy and: withholding taxes not paid on the acquisition of Cairn India by the reviewed the terms of bill and hold agreements to conclude on previous owner, Cairn Energy plc.
the point at which risk and reward transfer takes place: recalculated the value of provisional pricing adjustments and At 31 March 2015, US$2,588.7 million has been recognised as a validating the assumptions used to third party data where deferred taxation liability, US$1,252.6 million has been recognised as possible: a deferred taxation asset and US$34.1 million has been recognised as a net current tax payable, with a total tax credit of US$1,852.5 challenged management in respect of whether the Gridco trade million recorded in the consolidated income statement.
receivables are recoverable through the review of state regulatory commission and the appellate tribunal rulings, review of the For more information see Notes 12, 31 and 38 in the financial underlying power purchase agreements and the external legal statements that provide further details and disclosures to these opinions received and the involvement of Deloitte power matters.
specialists to re-assess the tariff calculations: and reviewed the terms of Cairns profit sharing agreement and tested the underlying entitlement calculations.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 123 We reviewed the potential taxation exposures within the Group and, An overview of the scope of our audit through discussions with the Groups taxation department, the tax Total PBT % specialists within the audit team and review of relevant documentation, including external legal advice and correspondence with tax authorities, we evaluated the appropriateness of the provisions raised and contingent liability disclosures.
We considered, in the context of our tax specialists prior experience of similar issues, the Groups exposure to withholding taxes following past acquisitions, the current tax exposure following the Groups internal restructuring, transfer pricing arrangements and deferred taxation assets and liabilities recognised to assess whether these matters were appropriately reflected and disclosed in the financial statements.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the Full scope 90% Specic procedures 1% significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on Not scoped in 9% page 95.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the Total Revenue % context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be US$50 million 2014: Full scope 89% US$75 million, which is approximately 5% 2014: 5% of normalised Specic procedures 10% profit before tax, and below 1% 2014: 1% of equity.
Profit before tax Not scoped in 1% has been normalised by adjusting for specific one-off items: the impairment charges recognised on the PP&E and E&E assets during Net assests % the year following a significant decrease in commodity and oil and gas prices.
Normalised profit before tax is considered a more appropriate and less volatile measure reflecting the underlying scale of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of US$1.0 million 2014: US$1.5 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Full scope 92% Specic procedures 2% Not scoped in 6% http: .
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 124 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of Vedanta Resources plc Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Directors remuneration Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be primarily on the audit work at 16 locations.
12 of these were subject audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and to a full audit, whilst the remaining four were subject to an audit of returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
specified account balances where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and Corporate Governance Statement of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
These Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of 16 locations represent the principal business units and account for the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys 94% 2014: 100% of the Groups net assets, 99% 2014: 100% of the compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Groups revenue and 91% 2014: 100% of the Groups profit before Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
tax offset on consolidation by losses elsewhere in the Group.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking Our duty to read other information in the annual report audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are above.
Our audit work at the 16 locations was executed at levels of required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual materiality applicable to each individual entity and which were Report is: lower than Group materiality.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the course of performing our audit: or aggregated financial information of the remaining components not otherwise misleading.
subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the locations Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every five Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we years.
At each six month reporting date we include the component communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should audit partners and teams in our team briefing, discuss their risk have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, In our opinion: the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 2006: and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the information given in the strategic report and the Directors International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those report for the financial year for which the financial statements standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit Matters on which we are required to report by exception methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards in our opinion: review team and independent partner reviews.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Companys members those matters we are required to state to received from branches not visited by us: or them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility with the accounting records and returns.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 125 Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Kelly senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 13 May 2015 http: .
