Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Independent auditors report to the members of Whitbread PLC Opinion on the consolidated financial statements error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting In our opinion: policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall as at 26 February 2015 and of the Groups profit for the presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read year then ended: all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual the Group financial statements have been properly Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited prepared in accordance with International Financial financial statements and to identify any information that is Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially European Union: inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent the parent Company financial statements have been material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom implications for our report.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, response to that risk as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the The section below shows the risks of material misstatement IAS Regulation.
we identified that had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing What we have audited the efforts of the engagement team together with our audit We have audited the financial statements of Whitbread PLC response to those risks: for the year ended 26 February 2015 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement The risk of inappropriate revenue recognition of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement Note 3 page 102 of changes in equity, the consolidated balance sheet, the Focus We focused on this area due to the significant value consolidated cash flow statement, the parent Company of revenue for the Group, 2.6bn 2013 14: 2.3bn, the risk balance sheet, Group related notes 1 to 33 and the parent of revenues being recognised in incorrect periods through Company related notes 1 to 11.
The financial reporting cutoff errors and the risk of inappropriate management framework that has been applied in the preparation of the override of the amount of revenue recorded.
Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Response We carried out testing relating to controls over European Union.
The financial reporting framework that revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company recognition.
financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted We performed detailed testing on a sample of sales transactions Accounting Practice.
from origination through to the general ledger and in the reverse direction to ensure that revenue recognised was complete and This report is made solely to the Companys members, was recorded in the appropriate period to address the risk as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the of cut off errors.
These procedures were performed for each Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken of the Groups significant revenue streams of: so that we might state to the Companys members those sale of food, beverages and merchandise: matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted revenue from room sales and other guest services: and by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone franchise fees.
other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions We performed analytical procedures on revenue across we have formed.
each significant stream across the year.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor We performed cutoff testing on deliveries and services As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities provided around the yearend.
statement set out on page 84, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being We looked for and tested journal entries relating to revenue satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility for transactions close to the period end to ensure they were is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements valid entries.
We also analysed and selected journals for testing in accordance with applicable law and International Standards which appeared unusual in nature either due to size, preparer on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to or being manually posted.
We verified the journals to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards originating documentation to confirm that the entry was valid.
We evaluated the controls in the IT systems that support the Scope of the audit of the financial statements recording of revenue.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give We ensured that the financial statement disclosures were reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free in accordance with accounting standards, IAS 1 Presentation from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or of financial statements and IAS 18 Revenue.
Whitbread Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 accounts 2014 15 85 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 Independent auditors report to the members of Whitbread PLC continued Valuation of the defined benefit pension obligation Within International Standard on Auditing UK&I 240 there Note 31 page 130 is a presumption that there are risks of fraud in revenue Focus The actuarial assumptions used to value the defined recognition.
We have therefore evaluated which types of benefit pension scheme obligation are judgemental and revenue, revenue transactions or assertions give risk to such sensitive.
Due to the significance of the value of the pension risk in the current year and these are documented in the obligation, a small change in assumptions outside of the section above.
requirements of IAS 19 R may result in a material difference to amounts reported.
Our application of materiality Materiality is a key part of planning and executing our audit Response Using external data, we verified the strategy.
For the purposes of determining whether the appropriateness of the key actuarial assumptions used financial statements are free from material misstatement, by management in determining the pension obligation we define materiality as the magnitude of an omission or to ensure their assumptions were appropriate, met misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, in light the requirements of IAS 19 R and were in line with of the surrounding circumstances, could reasonably be market practice.
expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
As we develop our audit strategy, we This included a comparison of life expectancy with relevant determine materiality at the overall financial statement level mortality tables, benchmarking inflation and discount and at the individual account level.
Performance materiality rates against external market data, considering changes is the application of materiality at the individual account level.
in historical assumptions and evaluating managements expertise as required under auditing standards.
Planning the audit solely to detect individually material misstatements overlooks the fact that the aggregate of We used our pensions specialists to assist us with these individually immaterial misstatements may cause the financial procedures.
statements to be materially misstated, and leaves no margin for possible undetected misstatements.
We ensured that the financial statement disclosures were in accordance with IAS 19 R. When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determine a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged The risk of management override would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
Note 23 page 121 Focus We focused on the risk of management override of We determined materiality for the Group to be 23.2 million internal control in areas of judgement over property related which is approximately 5% of pretax profit 2013 14: 18.0 provisions, assumptions relating to the valuation of the million.
This provided the basis for determining the nature, defined benefit pension obligation and revenue recognition.
timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and Response We performed tailored procedures, including determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit analytical procedures and journal entry testing, sufficient to procedures.
address the identified risk in respect of subjective areas which were considered to be most susceptible to management On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our override which we considered to be property provisions, assessment of the Groups overall control environment, defined benefit pension liabilities and revenue recognition.
our judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account See points above for our response in relation to the risk of or balance for the Group should be 75% 2013 14: 75% inappropriate revenue recognition and the valuation of the of planning materiality, namely 17.4 million 2013 14: defined benefit pension obligation.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that the total uncorrected and undetected audit We agreed amounts of property provisions to underlying differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality contractual agreements and performed sensitivity analysis of 23.2 million for the financial statements as a whole.
on the assumptions in determining the final outcome including the discount rate, estimates of future sublet We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would rental income and periods of nonuse.
report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.0 million 2013 14: 0.9 million, as well as differences In 2014 we also focused on the accounting for current and below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting deferred taxation balances and assessment of uncertain on qualitative grounds.
Although this has remained an area of audit focus in the current year, this has had a lesser effect We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both on our overall audit strategy, due to the closure of a number the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above of uncertain tax positions and the implementation of a new and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Whitbread Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 accounts 2014 15 86 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 47 Governance p48 81 Consolidated accounts 2014 15 p83 135 Company accounts 2014 15 p137 142 An overview of the scope of our audit In particular, we are required to consider whether we have In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge consolidated financial statements, our Group audit scope acquired during the audit and the directors statement that focused on the two operating segment locations in the UK, they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and which were subject to full scope audits for the year ended understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately 26 February 2015.
The Group operates from head office discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and the audit of the Group is undertaken by one audit team.
Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
The audit of these two operating segment locations was performed at a materiality level calculated by reference to a Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relevant to you if, in our opinion: scale and risk of the individual business unit.
Together with the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Group functions, which were also subject to a full scope audit, parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have these locations represent the principal business units of the not been received from branches not visited by us: or Group and account for 97% of the Groups total assets, 97% of the Groups revenue and 95% of the Groups profit before tax.
the parent Company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not For the remaining components we performed review in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or procedures to confirm that there were no significant risks certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
by law are not made: or Opinion on other matter prescribed by the we have not received all the information and explanations Companies Act 2006 we require for our audit: or In our opinion: a corporate governance report has not been prepared the part of the directors remuneration report to be by the Company.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the information given in the strategic report and the the directors statement, set out on page 80, in relation directors report for the financial year for which the to going concern: and financial statements are prepared is consistent with the the part of the corporate governance report relating to financial statements: and the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the the information given in the corporate governance report UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
set out on pages 55 and 56 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Richard Wilson Senior statutory auditor Matters on which we are required to report by exception for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Statutory Auditor London Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report 27 April 2015 to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Notes financial statements: or 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Whitbread PLC website is the apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially in the course of performing our audit: or presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Whitbread Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 accounts 2014 15 87
