William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WILLIAM HILL PLC Governance Opinion on financial statements of William Hill PLC 97 In our opinion: Financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 29 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the 52 weeks then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of Group Accounting Policies, and the related notes 1 to 32, the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Parent Company Statement of Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 14.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the Statement of Group Accounting Policies in the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 64 regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report on page 50.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors' confirmation on page 46 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 47-50 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the Statement of Group Accounting Policies on page 106 of the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation on page 50 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WILLIAM HILL PLC Assessment of risks of material misstatement 98 The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of goodwill Our work focused on evaluating the design and implementation of key controls in this area and challenging the following key The Group has goodwill of 1,145.8 million which is tested annually assumptions used by management in conducting their for impairment against value in use of the Groups CGUs Retail, impairment review: Online, Stadia, US and Australia.
agreement of cash flow assumptions to board-approved budgets: The annual impairment test is a complex process requiring significant management judgement and is based on key validating the reasonableness of the cash flow forecasts by assumptions about future profitability and cash flows, selecting comparing value in use to the Groups market value: appropriate discount and long-term growth rates, which are assessing managements historical budgeting accuracy: disclosed in note 12 of the Group financial statements.
challenge of short-term growth rates used in the Groups and Our risk is focused on the sensitivity to those key assumptions components forecasts by reference to current performance used in the Groups impairment review, and the ultimate and plans: recoverability of goodwill.
consideration of the appropriateness of long-term growth rates by comparison to the historical average long-term growth rates achieved in the country of operation: using our internal valuation specialists to independently calculate appropriate discount rates for comparison with those used by management: and we have sensitised managements assumptions to reflect reasonably possible future alternative scenarios.
From the result of our procedures, we did not identify any impairment of goodwill for the Groups CGUs.
Validity of capitalised software development costs and We evaluated the design and implementation of internal controls associated useful economic lives UELs governing the capitalisation of costs and managements periodic review of the status of capital projects.
As disclosed in note 12 to the financial statements, 47.9 million of computer software additions has been capitalised in 2015 as a We tested a sample of capitalised software additions for result of the Groups strategy to differentiate through valuation as well as to determine whether the asset met technology development.
The investment in software development gives rise to a risk that We understood the nature of the asset in order to assess the costs are capitalised which do not meet the criteria for recognition reasonableness of the useful life selected.
under IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment and or IAS 38 We also assessed the business case for the capital project and Intangible assets and the risk that due to the pace of technological whether new assets created replaced existing assets and development that new assets are not amortised over appropriate indicated a risk of impairment or revised useful life for those useful lives.
Based on our work performed, we did not note any instances where capitalisation of software development costs was not appropriate.
Accuracy and completeness of revenue Together with our IT audit specialists we test the operating effectiveness of both automated and manual controls in the The Group has a number of income streams and platforms, the revenue cycle including cash reconciliations from the betting material being Retail, Online mobile and desktop and Australia.
General IT controls were tested for all key Revenue is derived from higher volume and typically lower value revenue and financial information systems involved in the revenue transactions and is dependent on the outcome of events process, as well as the interface between these systems.
We performed substantive analytical review procedures over the The completeness and accuracy of revenue recognised is Groups Retail and Online gaming revenue streams, and dependent on the configuration of underlying IT systems, how substantively tested the amount and validity of a sample of bets these interface with the financial information system, and the placed within the Retail divisions.
Our component auditors also effectiveness of the systematic and manual financial controls.
performed both substantive analytical review procedures and Due to the complexity of these processes there is a risk that substantive tests of detail for the Australian business.
For Online revenue errors may arise and go undetected or are not sportsbook revenues we used a data analytics approach to fully detected on a timely basis.
recalculate all simple bets, which comprise over 88% of revenue recognised.
For the remainder, we recalculated a sample of bets.
Our work was concluded satisfactorily.
William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 99 Valuation of uncertain tax provisions Our audit approach was to use our tax specialists to evaluate Financial the tax provisions recorded by management and potential tax The way in which William Hill organises its operations in different statements exposures.
We challenged managements judgements utilising jurisdictions requires management to make judgements and tax specialists in the UK, Australia and Gibraltar using their estimates in relation to interpretation of local tax laws and potential experience in country specific tax law and experience in similar tax provisions and exposures.
In assessing those judgements taken we also considered relevant correspondence with tax authorities.
We concluded our work satisfactorily.
In the current year, we have redesigned our revenue risk to focus on areas where a material misstatement is likely to occur and have removed the prior year reference to ante post bets which, whilst we continue to test such items, based on our cumulative audit experience, we have now concluded are unlikely to give rise to material misstatement.
We have removed the risk relating to the useful life of Australian brand intangible assets as these have been fully amortised in the year, and the risk relating to the valuation of pension liabilities as this risk was not one of the risks that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy in the current year.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk Management Committee discussed on page 67.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 12 million 2014: 15 million, which is below 5% 2014: 5% of profit before tax before exceptional items disclosed in note 3 to the Group financial statements, is 6% of profit before tax 2014: 6% and below 1% 2014: 2% of equity.
Profit before tax before exceptional items has been used to exclude volatility of such exceptional items from our determination.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Management Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.2 million 2014: 0.3 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Management Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at three locations: UK: Gibraltar: and Australia.
These locations represent the principal business units and account for over 97% of the Groups revenue, over 96% of operating profit and over 97% of the Groups net assets 2014: over 99% for all measures.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work on each of the three locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 6.0 million to 7.8 million 2014: 7.5 million to 9.75 million.
The Group auditor also performed analytical procedures over the Groups operations in the US, which were not significant to the Groups results.
At the Parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We include all component audit teams in our team briefing and discuss their risk assessment.
The audit procedures in the UK were performed by members of the Group audit team.
In the current year the Senior Statutory Auditor visited Gibraltar and a senior member of the Group audit team visited Australia.
For each of the businesses included within the programme of planned visits, the Group audit team discussed audit findings with the relevant component audit team throughout the audit engagement and reviewed relevant audit working papers.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WILLIAM HILL PLC Matters on which we are required to report by exception 100 Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Management Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Paul Franek FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 26 February 2016
