Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Financial statements 62 Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 1 February 2015 and of the Groups loss and cash ows for the 52 week period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Wm Morrison Supermarket PLCs financial statements comprise: the consolidated and Company balance sheet as at 1 February 2015: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the 52 week period then ended: the consolidated cash ow statement for the 52 week period then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the 52 week period then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identied as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 17.25m which represents 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Underlying profit before tax is dened in note 1.4 to the financial statements on page 78.
Audit scope Materiality We conducted the majority of our audit work in the UK, with a small amount of work undertaken by acomponent auditor in the Isle of Man.
A separate PwC component audit team undertook work on the UK Manufacturing subsidiaries.
Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 99% Audit scope ofGroup revenues.
Areas of focus Commercial income and promotional funding Impairment of property, plant and equipment Areas of focus Onerous lease provisions and onerous property commitments Capitalisation and impairment of intangible assets Stock valuation Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 63 The scope of our audit and areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identied as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specic areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identied by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Commercial income and promotional funding Our audit work in respect of commercial income and promotional funding comprised a combination of controls testing, substantive testing of a sample Refer to note 1.1 Accounting policies, page 75 Critical of income and funding recognised during the period, testing of amounts accounting estimates and judgements and notes 1.6, 5.2, recognised in the balance sheet and an assessment of the Groups disclosures 5.3 and 5.4. in this area.
Each element of our work is considered in more detail below.
The Group has two categories of commercial income: Controls testing marketing and advertising funding and volume based Our controls work encompassed understanding, evaluating and testing rebates on purchases.
managements key controls in respect of the recognition of both commercial income and promotional funding.
These key controls included the monitoring Commercial income is recognised as a deduction from cost of invoices raised and the accuracy of conrmations from suppliers.
We of sales and is earned over the period of the contractual found no significant deficiencies in these key controls, and our testing agreements with individual suppliers, as disclosed in the of managements key system controls contributed to our evidence in Groups accounting policy on page 76.
The total income determining whether commercial income and promotional funding had been recognised in a year is therefore based on the expected recorded appropriately and in the correct period.
entitlement earned up to the balance sheet date under each supplier agreement.
Income statement testing We requested conrmations directly from suppliers, in respect of a sample The Group separately recognises promotional funding on of commercial income and promotional funding.
This sample included 141 promotions that are partially funded by suppliers.
different suppliers covering 342 individual transactions.
The conrmations Promotional funding is an automated deduction from cost received allowed us to evaluate whether commercial income or promotional of sales, triggered when a sale is recognised.
The funding is funding had been appropriately recognised in the period, as well as assessing recognised when the transaction occurs in accordance with the validity of accruals made at the period-end.
We found three exceptions, the terms of supplier agreements.
The amount receivable all of which were manual input errors and not areas of judgement.
Two of is wholly based on sales volumes achieved, multiplied by these exceptions resulted in an under recognition of promotional funding of rates agreed with each supplier up-front.
34,000 and one resulted in an over recognition of promotional funding of We focused on commercial income because of the 20,000, giving a net position of 14,000 under recognition.
signicance of the amounts to the Groups gross profit, the We also analysed commercial income and promotional funding recognised significant number of transactions and agreements in place each month and compared it to the previous period to identify whether there with suppliers covering a range of periods and the industrywere any unusual trends in the amounts or timing of commercial income wide focus on this area of accounting.
and promotional funding recognised in each period.
We also considered We focused on promotional funding for the same reasons, managements own Key Performance Indicators in this analysis.
No unusual although we acknowledge that the level of judgement and trends were identied.
subjectivity in the calculations is negligible because of the Balance sheet testing level of automation.
We wrote to a further sample of suppliers, and obtained independent evidence The amount to be recognised in the income statement of the value and timing of commercial income and promotional funding to for commercial income requires management to apply evaluate that it had been recognised in the correct period.
We also agreed the judgement based on the contractual terms in place with accrued income to evidence of post-year end cash receipt, or offset from trade each of its suppliers together with estimates of amounts the creditors, where relevant.
Group is entitled to where transactions span the financial We performed cut-off procedures and credit note testing to provide further period-end.
evidence to support the timing of the recognition of both commercial The relative level of judgement in each of the categories income and promotional funding.
Cut-off work involved testing a sample of of commercial income and promotional funding is commercial income and promotional funding recognised both pre and post considered below: the period-end and evaluating by reference to documentation from suppliers that the timing of recognition was appropriate.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Financial statements 64 Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Commercial income marketing and Our credit note testing focused on credit notes raised after the period-end in advertisingfunding order to identify any instances of commercial income or promotional funding This income is varied with regards to the nature and timing being subsequently reversed.
We did not identify any exceptions from this work.
of the activity to which it relates, and is recognised in We tested the recoverability of invoiced commercial income and promotional accordance with written agreements with suppliers.
funding unsettled balances included within trade debtors in note 5.3 to the This income involves a significant number of agreements financial statements and where the Group does not have the right of offset and its recognition requires limited judgement or against trade creditors.
We assessed the ageing of both outstanding commercial estimation by management in determining the amount income and promotional funding debtors together with understanding the that the Group is entitled to.
Our focus was therefore on details of any disputes, and obtained explanations from management to assess assessing whether a written agreement for the marketing whether any provisions were appropriate.
and advertising funding existed, whether the relevant marketing or advertising had taken place and whether the Disclosures income recognised was recorded in the appropriate period.
We read the disclosures within the Annual Report in respect of commercial income and promotional funding and, based on our work, determined that Commercial income volume based rebates theyare consistent with accounting standards and the recent guidance on Volume based rebates are driven by the Group achieving thereporting of complex supplier arrangements issued by the Financial purchase volume targets set by individual suppliers for ReportingCouncil.
specic products over a pre-determined period.
There is therefore judgement involved in estimating the volume of purchases, particularly where rebate agreements span a financial period-end.
In order to narrow this judgement, management endeavours to structure agreements to coincide with the Groups financial period-end, thereby reducing or eliminating the degree of estimation.
In instances where the rebate agreement does not fully coincide with the period-end the key judgement that we focused on was the estimate of commercial income to be accrued at the period-end.
Promotional funding Promotional funding covers in-store promotions which are partially funded by suppliers.
Funding is automatically recognised as goods are sold.
The degree of judgement is limited because the amount receivable is wholly based on sales volumes achieved, multiplied by rates agreed with each supplier up-front.
Our focus was therefore on whether a written agreement for the promotional funding existed, whether the relevant promotion had taken place, and whether the funding recognised was recorded in the appropriate period.
Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment We obtained, understood and evaluated managements impairment models.
Our audit procedures included a detailed evaluation of the Groups budgeting Refer to note 3.1 Accounting policies, page 75 procedures upon which forecasts are based and an assessment of the principles Criticalaccounting estimates and judgements and of managements discounted cash ow models.
We tested the mathematical note3.3 Tangible assets.
accuracy of the calculations derived from each forecast model and assessed key At 1 February 2015 management assessed the Groups inputs in the calculations such as revenue growth and discount rate, by reference property, plant and equipment for an indication of to managements forecasts, data external to the Group and our own expertise.
The UK grocery retail market continues to We focused on these key assumptions because small subjective changes can evolve rapidly, with customers purchasing habits adapting have a material impact on the value in use assessment and any resultant to include convenience store and online offerings, and this impairment charge.
We found, based on our audit work, that the key has adversely impacted the market values of traditional assumptions used by management were supportable and appropriate supermarket freehold stores.
As such, the Group has faced inlightofthe current environment.
an environment where market values for retail space have declined.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 65 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Management considers each store to be a cash generating Management has determined their own view of estimated rental values and unit CGU and has calculated the recoverable amount of yields for each store which are the key assumptions used in their calculation of each CGU as the higher of value in use and fair value less market values.
Management derived these assumptions having considered costs of disposal.
The value in use is based on discounted available information such as industry data on market conditions, offers recently future cash ow forecasts over which the Directors make received for properties and information from an independent third party valuer.
judgements on certain key inputs including, for example, We evaluated managements supporting information, including the third party discount rates and long term growth rates.
The fair value valuation, and assessed this for reasonableness using our own property less costs of disposal is estimated by the Directors based expertise, with a particular focus on the assumptions and methodology used and on their knowledge of individual stores and the markets obtained third party evidence and market data to corroborate the assumptions.
they serve, likely demand from grocers or other retailers in We determined that the valuations performed by management are reasonable.
the event those stores were for sale and is further informed We note that models used by management are sensitive to changes in key by a valuation performed by a third party valuer.
The assumptions such as rental values and yields, revenue growth and discount rate key judgements made by management in this fair value which, if not achieved, could reasonably be expected to give rise to further calculation relate to the estimated rental values and the impairment charges in the future.
We also evaluated the competency, qualications, experience and objectivity We focused on this area because of these judgemental ofmanagements property valuation experts.
factors, the significant carrying value of freehold property and the size of managements impairment charge of In addition, we evaluated the adequacy of the disclosures made in note 3.3 of 1,113m in the year.
thenancial statements, including those regarding the key assumptions and sensitivities to changes in such assumptions.
We compared the disclosures against the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of assets and found them to be consistent.
Onerous lease provisions and onerous Having considered the possibility of impairment in the value of freehold propertycommitments properties see above, we also challenged managements calculations in respect of leasehold stores where the estimated future benets are notexpected to Refer to note 5.1 Accounting policies, page 75 Critical exceed the future lease commitments, resulting in an onerouslease.
accounting estimates and judgements and note 5.5.
We obtained managements models and considered the accuracy and Accounting standards require management to assess the completeness of key data by agreeing inputs such as store locations and lease Groups leasehold stores to identify where the expected expiry dates for a sample of stores to the original signed lease agreements, future benets from a store are less than the future lease noting no issues.
commitments, indicating that an onerous lease provision isrequired.
Under IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities We evaluated the Groups budgeting procedures upon which forecasts are and contingent assets such a provision is made for the based and assessed the principles of the Groups discounted cash ow model.
unavoidable costs of the contract, dened in the standard We tested the mathematical accuracy of the calculation derived from each as the least net cost of exit.
forecast model and assessed key inputs in the calculations such as revenue growth and discount rate, by reference to managements forecasts, data external We focused on this area because of the judgements to the Group and our own expertise.
The discount rate used is consistent with the required to be made by management in identifying Groups cost of debt and the requirements of IAS 37, which species that the rate thosestores requiring an onerous lease provision and should be liability specic.
theassumptions used in the models, such as the discount rate and those used in developing the associated cash We also considered the disclosures made in note 5.5 to the financial statements ow forecasts.
and determined that they are consistent with the requirements ofaccounting standards.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Financial statements 66 Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Capitalisation and impairment We obtained a breakdown of each individual internal development project ofintangibleassets capitalised in the period and reconciled this to the amounts recorded in the general ledger, identifying no significant reconciling differences.
Refer to note 3.2 Accounting policies and page 75 We tested a sample of costs capitalised in the period to assess whether these Critical accounting estimates and judgements.
had been appropriately treated in line with the Groups accounting policy The Group balance sheet includes capitalised intangible and accounting standards, most notably IAS 38 Intangible assets.
We also assets of 520 million, of which 496 million relates to met with management responsible for particular costs to obtain explanations software development costs incurred in connection with and an understanding of the projects the costs related to.
This enabled us to the Groups IT systems transformation project, details of independently assess whether project costs met the criteria for capitalisation which are shown on page 87 of the Annual Report.
The as set out in accounting standards.
We found the explanations obtained from Group has developed a significant amount of its own management to be consistent with our understanding of developments in software and systems which is used in the business.
the business and supported managements assessment that the costs met the relevant capitalisation criteria.
We focused on this area because of the signicance of the costs capitalised and the fact that there is judgement Where external third party contractors were used, we agreed the hours involved in assessing whether the criteria, set out in and charge out rates to the invoices issued by the contractor, and assessed accounting standards, required for capitalisation of such whether the costs were directly related to a capital project.
costs have been met, including the likelihood of the project To determine whether internal employee costs were directly attributable delivering sufficient future economic benets.
Where to projects, we obtained listings of hours worked on individual projects for the costs incurred are internally generated for example the employment costs capitalised.
We selected a sample of the individual employee costs there is further judgement required hours recorded and obtained an understanding of the work performed by in the calculation, such as the amount of time spent on the employee.
We also checked that the hours charged equated to the value the projects.
of costs capitalised by comparing the proportion of costs capitalised to the In light of the development of new software and systems, employees salary, without exception.
we also focused on whether the carrying value of existing We challenged management as to whether the development of new software capitalised software or systems was impaired.
or systems superseded or impaired any of the existing assets on the balance sheet.
We also applied our own understanding of both new and existing projects and considered whether, in our view, any existing software is no longer in use or whether its life had been shortened by development activity.
In performing this testing, we also re-visited the assumptions made by management in the prior period and compared them to actual outcomes in the current period, with no significant variances being identied by our work.
We performed analytical procedures on the amortisation charge to assess compliance with the Groups accounting policy, and determined that the charge incurred in the period was in-line with this policy.
Overall we found that the costs capitalised were supportable and consistent with the requirements of accounting standards for capitalising such costs.
No material impairment of the intangible assets was identied from our work.
We also considered whether the disclosures made in note 3.2 to the financial statements met the requirements set out in accounting standards and noted no issues.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 67 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Stock valuation We attended stock counts throughout the period at a sample of the Groups supermarkets, convenience stores, distribution centres and manufacturing Refer to note 5.1 Accounting policies, page 75 Critical locations.
In addition to performing sample test counts, we assessed the accounting estimates and judgements and note 5.2. effectiveness of the count controls in operation at each site.
We also evaluated the results of other cycle counts performed by management and third parties The valuation of stock was focused on because of the throughout the period to assess the level of count variances.
nature of the judgements made by management when assessing the level of provisions required.
As disclosed We tested the shrinkage assumptions determined by the count procedures by in note 5.1 to the financial statements, provisions are held comparing them to historical data.
The historical data included the results of the against stock for estimated losses related to shrinkage last three counts at each location, and our analytical procedures did not identify and obsolescence as well as a deduction for unearned any significant unusual uctuations in the data.
commercial income as the stock related to that commercial The obsolescence provision is calculated by applying a judgemental percentage income and promotional income has yet to be sold.
to the period-end stock levels, with this judgement being informed by historical As stock is counted by the Group on a cyclical basis, rather data on the levels of obsolescence as well as managements view of the current than in full at the period-end date, the shrinkage provision stock prole and age.
We assessed this provision by assessing the accuracy of at 1 February 2015 contains a degree of estimation.
the historical data and the explanations provided by management on the current prole, noting no issues.
We tested the unearned commercial income deduction by performing a recalculation using the prole of period-end stock and the trends of commercial income historically received, with no issues noted.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Groups accounting process is structured around a group finance function at its head office in Bradford.
Within the head office, supporting finance functions exist for each of the key business operating areas Group, Supermarkets including Manufacturing and Property, and these report to the Group finance team as appropriate.
The Group also maintains local finance teams at each of its key Manufacturing sites.
Other than group reporting from a component audit team from a PwC member rm in the Isle of Man auditing specic account balances only, and from a component team from the UK rm auditing the complete financial information of a UK Manufacturing subsidiary, both of which operated under our instructions, all work was conducted in the UK by the same audit team.
Our work also included, in this our first year as the Groups auditors, a review of the predecessor auditor working papers.
Where the work was performed by the component auditor, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
As part of our year-end audit procedures, we held detailed discussions with the Isle of Man and UK Manufacturing component audit teams, including holding a detailed planning meeting with them and attending the audit clearance meeting with management by conference call Isle of Man or in person UK Manufacturing.
Materiality The scope of our audit was inuenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 17.25m How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before tax dened in note 1.4 to the financial statements on page 78.
Rationale for benchmark applied We applied this benchmark because, in our view, this is the most relevant metric against which the performance of the Group is most commonly measured.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all individual misstatements identied during our audit above 875,000, as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Financial statements 68 Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC continued Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 44, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 33 and the Directors Report on pages 59 to 61 for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 36 to 46 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group andthe Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 61, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced to report arising from andunderstandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and this responsibility.
Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge oftheGroup and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 41, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions theworkofthe Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to to report arising from theAudit Committee.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 69 Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 61, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Steve Denison Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Leeds 11 March 2015 a Th e maintenance and integrity of the Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Financial statements 70
