Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc Report on the Company financial statements Other required reporting Our opinion Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, Our opinion information in the Annual Report is: In our opinion, Wolseley plcs Company financial statements thefinancial materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or statements, defined below: apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at31 July 2015 knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or and of its profit for the year then ended: and otherwise misleading.
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
Opinion on other matter In our opinion the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors What we have audited Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
The financial statements comprise: the Company balance sheet as at 31 July 2015: Opinion on additional disclosures the Company profit and loss account for the year then ended: and The Company voluntarily prepares a Directors Remuneration Report in the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006.
The Directors accounting policies and other explanatory information.
have requested that we audit the part of the Directors Remuneration Report The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation specified by the UK Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion the part of the Directors isUnited Kingdom Accounting Standards.
remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006.
What an audit of financial statements involves Responsibilities for the financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence and theaudit about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Our responsibilities and those of the Directors misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys on page74, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in and accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Companys members as a body in accordance with terms of engagement and Annual Report and Accounts 2015 the Annual Report to identify material for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any responsibility for any other purpose or toany other person to whom this report information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially isshown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our inconsistent with, theknowledge acquired byus in the course of performing prior consent in writing.
If we becomeaware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter Other matters on which we are required to We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Wolseley plc report byexception forthe year ended 31 July 2015.
Adequacy of accounting records and information andexplanations received We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company orproperreturns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches Stuart Watson Senior Statutory Auditor not visited by us: or for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records London andreturns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require 28 September 2015 forour audit.
Wolseley plc 166 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
