Governance 121 Independent auditors report to the members of WS Atkins plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: WS Atkins plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU the Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard Regulation.
What we have audited WS Atkins plcs financial statements comprise: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets as at 31 March 2015 the Consolidated Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flows for the year then ended the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the Financial Statements.
These are cross-referenced from the Financial Statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 5.6 million 2014: 5.3m which represents 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional items Materiality The focus of our work was on the United Kingdom and Europe, Audit scope North America, Middle East and Energy reporting units Timing and accuracy of contract revenue and profit recognition Areas of Goodwill impairment assessment, particularly in the Groups focus North America and Aerospace divisions Valuation of net retirement plan liabilities Provisions for uncertain tax positions Captive insurance claim provisions WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 122 Governance Independent auditors report continued to the members of WS Atkins plc The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the outcome of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Timing and accuracy of contract revenue We evaluated the IT systems used in the determination of revenue recognition by testing and profit recognition access and change management controls.
We also tested the internal controls over the Refer to the Audit Committee report page 86 timing of revenue recognition in the Financial Statements.
Based on the results of this and Revenue Recognition and Contract Accounting testing, we placed a high level of reliance on controls for the purposes of our testing of page 139. revenue and designed our further testing accordingly.
We focused on this area because the timing of We selected a number of contracts, using risk based criteria, which included individual revenue recognition, forecasts of costs to complete contracts: and the recognition of variations on fixed price with significant revenue recognised in the year or contracts have inherent complexities in the design, with forecast losses or engineering and construction industries.
with significant unbilled work in progress balances or The Group enters into contracts, many of which that had been identified by management as higher risk.
are complex and long-term in nature and can To assess whether revenue and profit is accurately recorded, we tested the forecast span a number of reporting periods.
costs to complete on a sample of contracts by obtaining an understanding from project The total amount of revenue and profit to be managers as to how they had estimated these costs, challenging the assumptions, for recognised under a contract can be affected by example by assessing forecast hours against historical and current run rates underpinning changes in conditions and circumstances over time, those estimates, evaluating the outturn of previous estimates and agreeing the actual such as: costs incurred post-year end to the forecast costs for the period.
We also assessed how the project managers determined that the stage of completion was correctly calculated variations to the original contract terms and the appropriateness of variations recognised through obtaining their calculations and cost overruns agreeing the inputs to documentary evidence or our independently formed expectation scope changes that require further negotiation as appropriate.
We found that the costs to complete and variations taken to value were and settlement.
Variations can arise from changing client For an additional sample, we tested the monthly monitoring of the total forecast revenue specifications, changes to the job based on for the contract, costs expected to be incurred in its completion, the profit recognised to unforeseen circumstances e. g. macroeconomic date and the working capital position on the contract.
This was tested by checking factors, as well as from inefficiencies on the part electronic sign off by a suitable individual.
No significant issues were noted from our work.
There can be some uncertainties, therefore, in determining the amounts to be To test the timing of contract revenue, we challenged senior managements judgements recovered from any additional work performed.
on the completeness of work for our sample of contracts by checking original contracts, amendments to contracts, where applicable e. g. due to agreed variations, and checking The timing of revenue recognition is subject to that the contractual milestones had been reached.
We also read and considered the judgements surrounding the costs expected to implications of correspondence with customers both upon the acceptance of work be incurred in completing the work, as revenue on done and relating to disputes.
fixed price contracts is recognised on a percentage completion basis.
There is also the opportunity No significant issues were noted from our work.
to misstate the amount of variations expected.
Given the degree of subjectivity involved in determining costs to complete and the magnitude of variations, there is also scope for error in the calculation of revenue and the opportunity to misstate the allocation of revenue between reporting periods.
The risk is, therefore, that contract revenue is not recognised in the correct period or that revenue and associated profit is misstated.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Governance 123 Independent auditors report continued to the members of WS Atkins plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment, particularly We evaluated the Directors future cash flow forecasts and the process by which they were in the Groups North America and aerospace drawn up, including comparing them to the latest Board-approved budgets, and testing divisions the underlying calculations.
We challenged the Directors key assumptions for: Refer to the Audit Committee report page 86 and short-term sales growth rates and profit margins in the forecasts by comparing them Note 14 Goodwill page 161. to short-term historical results and economic industry forecasts We focused on this area because the determination long-term growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to long-term historical of whether or not an impairment charge is required results and economic industry forecasts involves significant judgement, including the discount rate, by assessing the cost of capital for all cash generating units CGUs, forecasting the future results of the business by using our specialist valuations knowledge and comparing the Companys key inputs estimating future sales growth rates, profit margins to externally derived data.
and inflation rates and determining the discount We compared the current year actual results to the figures for the financial year ended rate for the calculations.
31 March 2015 included in the prior year impairment models to consider whether any We particularly focused on the goodwill held in forecasts included assumptions that, with hindsight, had been optimistic.
Actual respect of the North American business as this performance in the Atkins North America and European aerospace businesses was found accounts for 144.7m 59% of the total goodwill to be lower than expected so we checked and found that the Directors had appropriately of 244.4m and has historically had the least reflected this in the current year cash flow models.
relative headroom, but in respect of which no Using our own independent analysis, we assessed sensitivity analysis that had been impairment charge has been recognised in the year.
performed by management around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts, which were: We also focused on the Directors assessment of impairment within the aerospace business to check the discount rate that the impairment charge of 2.8m recognised the projected operating profit margins in the year is sufficient to reflect the downturn to identify how much each of these key drivers needed to change, either individually in this business.
or collectively, before the goodwill was impaired.
IFRSs require complex and often detailed disclosure Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually in the financial statements about goodwill and or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the impairment.
In addition to reviewing the need likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising.
for any impairment charge, we focused on We found that the discount rate applied by the Directors was in line with the cost of these disclosures because they form a valuable capital for North American businesses and the profit margins and shortand long-term communication, enabling users of the Financial growth rates were in line with those forecasts presented to the Board and those of the Statements to understand the basis for any US market.
impairment recognised or not recognised.
We considered the related disclosures in note 14 to the Financial Statements by checking that they were compliant with IFRSs and that their presentation was consistent with our understanding of the key issues in this area.
We found that they appropriately describe the inherent degree of subjectivity in the estimates and the potential impact on future periods of revisions to these estimates, including specific disclosures on the key assumptions most sensitive to reasonable possible change.
Valuation of net retirement plan liabilities We liaised with the Groups actuaries and used our own actuarial expertise to evaluate the Refer to Note 29 Post-employment benefit Directors assessment of the assumptions made in relation to the valuations of the liabilities liabilities pages 182 to 191. and assets in the pension plans.
We compared the assumptions around salary increases and mortality rates to national and industry averages.
We checked with the Groups The Group operates two significant defined benefit actuaries that there had been no significant events or settlements that would impact the plans and total net post-retirement liabilities of current pension balances and disclosures.
298.4m which are significant in the context of the overall balance sheet of the Group: the Atkins We tested the Groups contributions to the bank statements and the pensions paid out Pension Plan and the Railways Pension Scheme.
of the schemes by tracing them to the pension scheme bank accounts.
We focused on this area because the valuation We also tested the valuations of pension plan liabilities and assets as follows: of plan liabilities requires significant levels of to test the inputs to the calculation of the liabilities, we compared the discount and judgement and technical expertise in choosing inflation rates used in the valuation of the pension liabilities to our internally developed appropriate assumptions.
Unfavourable changes benchmarks and found that they were consistent can result in a number of key assumptions to test the valuation of the assets, we obtained third party confirmations on ownership including salary increases, inflation, discount rates and valuation of pension assets.
We found these confirmations to be consistent and mortality having a material impact on the with the amounts disclosed in the financial statements.
The evidence we obtained supported the carrying value of the net retirement There is also some judgement in the measurement plan liabilities.
of the fair value of pension assets giving rise to a risk of material misstatement in their valuation.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 124 Governance Independent auditors report continued to the members of WS Atkins plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provisions for uncertain tax positions We evaluated and challenged managements rationale for the level of provisions held.
Refer to Note 7 Income tax expense and Note 18 Where relevant, we obtained and assessed supporting documentation used by Deferred income tax pages 152 to 153 and management to formulate the provisions, and considered the reasonableness of 166 to 167. managements best estimate assessments.
To do this: We focused on this area due to the judgement we assessed the impact of tax rate changes and other factors on the current tax required in assessing the completeness and we considered the status of recent and current tax enquiries in the UK and the US, valuation of provisions to cover the risk of challenge and the macro-tax environment in each territory of certain of the Groups tax positions.
Provisions we considered the sensitivity of managements probability estimates used to calculate are held principally in respect of: the value of provisions, where relevant we discussed with management all issues known to us, and considered the sufficiency current tax deductions of provisions in light of the matters discussed.
The evidence we obtained supported the amounts provided for uncertain tax positions.
Captive insurance claim provisions We obtained the Groups schedule for the professional indemnity claims and checked it The Group operates a captive insurance company, was complete by comparing it to Board minutes and correspondence with the Groups which provides self-insurance against claims such legal counsel.
For each material claim we discussed the issue with the Groups internal legal as professional indemnity and income protection.
counsel and management of the captive insurance company in order to understand the The most significant provisions relate to alleged latest position of the proceedings and assess the Directors views as to the strength of the deficiencies found in work performed by the claim against the Group.
We obtained a schedule from management detailing the income protection claim We focused on this area because the determination provisions per underwriting year.
We discussed the controls in place around the claims of the size of the provisions held and the settlement cycles with management and obtained evidence that controls had been working during amounts are inherently judgemental.
We checked year end provisions to Board minutes and to claims schedules provided by the Groups claims specialists and evaluated the specialists as being suitably qualified or experienced.
We sought management explanation for significant movements in the period and substantiated managements claims by confirming with insurers, legal correspondence where possible and the Groups legal counsel.
From the evidence obtained, we consider the level of provisioning at the balance sheet date to be acceptable.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group reports its operating results and financial position in five segments, being United Kingdom and Europe, North America, Middle East, Asia Pacific and Energy.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of the Groups operating businesses and central functions.
The Groups operating reporting units vary significantly in size, the most significant being the United Kingdom and Europe segment.
For the purposes of our scoping we divided this reporting unit further by identifying those significant areas where we needed to focus our work.
This included performing work on the shared service facility, giving us evidence over the centralised processes in the UK, and the key UK operating businesses selected based on their size or risk characteristics e. g. rail.
We also performed an audit of the complete financial information of North America, the Middle East and UK Energy.
We issued instructions to our overseas teams, which included guidance on the areas of focus for the audit: we then had regular communication with them and a senior member of the Group team also attended all planning and clearance meetings, either in person or by telephone.
The Group engagement leader visited both North America and the Middle East for the clearance meetings.
Further specific audit procedures over Group functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, goodwill, treasury, post-retirement benefits and material litigation were performed at the Groups head office.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Governance 125 Independent auditors report continued to the members of WS Atkins plc Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 5.6 million 2014: 5.3 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional items, which for FY15 consisted of costs attributable to an unsuccessful acquisition pursuit.
Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with last year, we believed that profit adjusted for exceptional items best represents the Groups underlying performance as this eliminates items of income or expense that are one-off and significant in nature or amount.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them individual misstatements identified during our audit above 0.5m 2014: 0.5m as well as misstatements below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement page 71 in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Financial Statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the Financial Statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Figure 1: ISAs UK & Ireland reporting: Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements or arising from this responsibility apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit or otherwise misleading the statement given by the Directors page 71, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to arising from this responsibility be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit the section of the Annual Report page 84, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the We have no exceptions to report work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit arising from this responsibility Committee Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us or the Companys Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 126 Governance Independent auditors report continued to the members of WS Atkins plc Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Statement of Responsibility pages 70 and 71, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Financial Statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Martin Hodgson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 10 June 2015 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Financial Statements 127 Financial Statements Page no.
Consolidated Income Statement 128 17 Investments in subsidiaries 166 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 129 18 Deferred income tax 166 Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets 130 19 Financial risk management 167 Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flows 132 20 Financial instruments 174 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 133 21 Derivative financial instruments 176 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity 134 22 Other receivables 177 23 Trade and other receivables 178 Notes to the Financial Statements 24 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 179 1 Accounting policies 135 25 Cash and cash equivalents 179 2 Segmental information 146 26 Borrowings 179 3 Joint ventures 149 27 Trade and other payables 181 4 Operating profit analysis of costs by nature 150 28 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 181 5 Employee benefit costs 151 29 Post-employment benefit liabilities 182 6 Net finance costs 151 30 Other non-current liabilities 191 7 Income tax expense 152 31 Ordinary shares 191 8 Net profit on disposal of businesses 153 32 Share-based payments 192 9 Business combinations 155 33 Cash generated from continuing operations 195 10 Exceptional items 159 34 Analysis of net funds 195 11 Dividends 160 35 Contingent liabilities 196 12 Earnings per share EPS 160 36 Operating lease arrangements 196 37 Capital and other financial commitments 196 13 Parent Company Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income 161 38 Related party transactions 197 14 Goodwill 161 39 Subsidiary undertakings 198 15 Other intangible assets 164 40 Joint arrangements 199 16 Property, plant and equipment 165 Five year summary 200 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
