Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc Report on the Group financial statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill and other intangibles We evaluated the reasonableness of the Our opinion impairment assessment, particularly Directors future cash flow forecasts for In our opinion, Wolseley PLCs the Group financial statements in the Nordic region the Stark, Silvan, Stark Finland, Neumann thefinancial statements : and Beijer businesses.
This included Refer to page 68 Audit Committee understanding the process by which they Report, page 108 Accounting policies give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 July 2015 were drawn up, including comparing and critical estimates and judgements andof its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: them to the latest Board approved plans The sharp deterioration of first half have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial and forecasts approved by the Directors.
profitability in the Nordic region Wenoted no material exceptions.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and triggered the Directors to reassess We tested the reliability of the Directors have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirementsof therecoverability of goodwill and other budgeting process by comparing actual assets, which had a carrying value theCompanies Jersey Law 1991. and budgeted profits for the past four of 341 million prior to impairment.
We alsodeveloped independent Followingthis review, an impairment What we have audited expectations of the future cash charge of 234million was recorded The financial statements included within the Annual Report andAccounts flowsofthe businesses by examining withrespect to the Stark, Silvan, theAnnual Report comprise: historic performance and market data.
This analysis did not materially differ the Group balance sheet as at 31 July 2015: We have focused on this area because fromthe Directors conclusion.
the determination of whether or not an the Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive income We evaluated the Directors key impairment charge for goodwill and forthe year then ended: assumptions for the long-term otherassets was necessary involved the Group cash flow statement for the year then ended: growthrates and the discount rates used significant judgements by the Directors in the model by comparing them against about thefuture results and plans for the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and our own independently determined theNordic businesses.
the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant acceptable ranges.
We did not identify In particular we focused on the accounting policies and other explanatory information.
reasonableness and impact of key We also ascertained the extent of Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, assumptions including: change in those assumptions that, either rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced The cash flows derived from internal individually or collectively, would result from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
forecasts and the drivers behind future in further impairment.
We consider performance: and The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation that a reasonably possible change The discount rate and the long-term of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the in assumptions would not cause an growth rate including the assessment impairment in any businesses apart from European Union.
ofrisk factors and growth expectations Neumann and Beijer.
These businesses of the relevant territory.
remain sensitive to reasonably possible Our audit approach Under IAS 36 Impairment of changes in assumptions as disclosed Overview assets, where the impairment amountis bythe Directors in Note 12. in excess of the carrying value of goodwill, We examined the allocation of the excess Overall Group materiality: 38 million which there is also judgement in determining the impairment over the carrying value of represents 5% of continuing profit before tax proportional split to allocate to other asset goodwill against intangibles and other adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items.
classes based on a separate assessment assets to determine whether the Directors The components where we performed audit work of their recoverable amount, being the had complied with IAS36.
Where the Materiality accounted for 99% of Group revenues and 91% higher of value-in-use and fair value less Directors determined that assets were not of continuing Group profit before tax adjusted for coststosell.
impaired, we focused on the assumptions non-recurring exceptional items.
used in the valuations prepared to support Goodwill and other intangibles impairment the fair value of certain assets and also assessment, particularly inthe Nordic region.
the assessment of an external appraisals Recognition of supplier rebate income.
Audit scope The provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory.
The provision for product liability, employee disputes, contract and commercial issues andenvironmental exposures.
Areas of The provision for uncertain tax positions.
focus The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should beread in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Wolseley plc 158 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recognition of supplier rebate To test the Directors estimated rebate The provision for product liability, Under our direction, where applicable, income receivable, we agreed a sample of employee disputes, contract ourcomponent audit teams held rebate terms used in the receivable and commercial issues and discussions with in-country legal Refer to page 68 Audit Committee calculation to supplier contracts and environmental exposures advisers and obtained audit evidence Report, page 34 of the Finance Review confirmed the terms of a sample of locally regarding the status of ongoing and page 108 Accounting policies and Refer to page 68 Audit Committee contracts with the suppliers, noting no investigations and claims.
This evidence critical estimates and judgements Report, page 109 Accounting policies material exceptions.
We circularised was coordinated by the Group audit team and critical estimates and judgements As is common across the industry, the a sample of receivable balances with with Group legal counsel to understand and page 132 Notes Group has a number of supplier rebate the suppliers, which materially agreed the associated risks and thebasis for agreements in place, a number of which The Group is subject to litigation and to the balances recorded by the provisions recorded.
We identified no are annual and coterminous with the claims in relation to product liability, Directors.
In addition, we considered material exceptions to the amounts calendar year rather than the Groups employee disputes, contract and the historical accuracy of the Directors recorded bythe Directors.
Most of the Groups commercial issues and environmental rebate estimates by comparing cash We evaluated the Directors process volume rebates are based on a flat rate.
The outcome of these receipts to the year-end rebate receivable toidentify and quantify such exposures The remaining contracts are structured claims can be inherently uncertain, balances in prior periods.
Where there and obtained supporting evidence for such that the rebate percentage as the ultimate liability for potential were differences, we understood the thekey assumptions including reports increases as a proportion of the volume of legal claimsand other matters may cause and consideredwhether the from specialists where appropriate.
Where bedependent upon facts that are current year estimate would be affected.
this is the case the Directors are required currently uncertain or unknown, the This comparison did not identify any to make estimates of future purchases outcome of litigation proceedings and We obtained confirmations from differences that would lead to material forthe rebate year incalculating the possible settlement negotiations.
externallegal counsel and considered changes in the current year receivable.
income receivable at the year-end.
theappropriateness of the disclosure We agreed a sample of rebate income made inthe Group financial statements, Some of the agreements are also received during the year tocash receipts noting no material differences.
reimbursements of marketing costs rather and considered the patterns in overall than being tied to volume.
Whererebates rebate income over several years to The provision for uncertain tax We involved our specialists in the relevant can be linked to a reimbursement of identify any unusual trends or balances.
positions jurisdictions who have knowledge of the marketing expense, they are classified We noted no material exceptions or local tax law to understand the extent inoperating costs.
Refer to page 68 Audit Committee unusual trends or balances.
of possible exposure arising from the Report and page 110 Accounting policies Due to the complexity and supplier We assessed the appropriate Groups arrangements.
and critical estimates and judgements specific nature of each arrangement, presentation of volume and marketing We obtained the latest correspondence itis difficult to fully automate the rebate The Group operates in a number of rebates in cost of sales and operating between the Group and the relevant tax receivable calculation process and territories and recognises tax based on costs respectively by agreeing, for authorities and considered the views of hence the Directors are reliant on manual interpretation of local laws and regulations a sample of rebate income, that the the Groups external advisers on these processes outside the financial systems which are sometimes uncertain.
The key natureof the income in the underlying matters, noting that these supported and related controls.
Manualprocesses areas of judgement made by the Directors contract supported its presentation managements recorded position.
can lead to a higher risk of material on tax matters during the normal course inthe financial statements.
We noted misstatement due to error or fraud.
of business, and the key assumptions We met with the Directors and evaluated nomaterial exceptions.
we focused on, include transfer pricing the appropriateness of provisions made, We have focused on this area due to: arrangements on Group recharges and and identified no material exceptions to the significant amount of audit effort the level of debt funding within the Group.
required to test the accounting for Where the amount of tax payable thesearrangements, given the volume or receivable is uncertain the Group of agreements and manual nature of establishes provisions based on the thereceivable calculation: Directors judgement.
the judgement involved in estimating thereceivable for tiered agreements: and How we tailored the audit scope the judgement involved in the We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be classification of rebates in cost of able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account salesor operating costs.
the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The provision for slow-moving We tested the completeness of the data andobsolete inventory within the system used to generate the The Group is primarily structured into five geographic regions being the USA, inventory provision by agreeing a sample UK, Canada, Nordic, and Central Europe.
Each geographic region consists of Refer to page 68 Audit Committee of inventory in warehouses and branches Report and page 109 Accounting a number of businesses which we consider components for scoping the audit.
We also tested policies and critical estimates These businesses are Ferguson, Wolseley Canada, Wolseley UK, France Building the accuracy of the provision by reviewing andjudgements Materials, Stark, Silvan, Stark Finland, Beijer, Neumann, Wasco, and Tobler.
the calculation criteria and recalculating Each has a separate management reporting entity which is consolidated by Group The balance of gross inventories at it for a sample of products.
Wenoted 31July 2015 is 1,972 million, against management.
The Group includes head office companies in its consolidation, nomaterial exceptions as a result of which an obsolescence provision of principally Wolseley Limited, Wolseley Group Services, and Wolseley Insurance theseprocedures.
TheDirectors Limited, which we also considered to be components for the purposes of our audit.
We considered the appropriateness estimate this provision by comparing In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined that we ofthe provisioning methodology based the level of inventory held to future sales on historical experience and compared needed to conduct audit work over the complete financial information of these projections.
The provision is calculated forecast sales to the last 12 months to 14components.
With the exception of the head office companies which were within the Groups accounting systems determine reasonableness.
No material audited by the Group team, we used local PwC network firms to audit and using an automated process, however exceptions were noted.
reporton the component financial information.
these systems are not directly linked to the underlying ledgers and require Where the work was performed by component auditors, under our instruction, we manual interfaces and inputs into determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those thecalculation.
reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence We focused on the risk that the provision had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as was calculated incorrectly, due to the a whole.
In the current year the Group team visited the US and UK components parameters set within the system or to obtain an understanding of the local environment and any audit risks arising.
inaccurate input of the underlying data, We directed the work of component auditors, reviewed the component auditors and because of the judgement required working papers and participated in the closing meetings of all components.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and financial statement items accounted for centrally, including derivative financial instruments and share-based payments were also audited by the Group engagement team at thehead office.
Wolseley plc 159 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc continued Taken together, the businesses where we performed our audit work accounted Adequacy of information and explanations received for99 per cent of Group revenues and 91 per cent of continuing Group profit before Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in tax adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items and impairment of goodwill and ouropinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require intangibles.
Our audit procedures, together with additional procedures performed at for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the Group level, including audit of the consolidation, financial statement disclosures, derivative financial instruments and share-based payments, gave us the evidence Corporate governance statement that we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Materiality Governance Statement relating to the parent companys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set having performed our review.
certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent ofour audit procedures on the individual financial statement line Opinion on other matter items and disclosures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors and on the financial statements as a whole.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality forthe financial consistent with the financial statements.
statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 38 million 2014: 33 million.
Responsibilities for the financial statements How we determined it 5% of continuing profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring and the audit exceptional items and impairment of goodwill and intangibles.
Rationale for benchmark We believe that continuing profit before tax, adjusted for Our responsibilities and those of the Directors applied non-recurring exceptional items and impairment of goodwill As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out and intangibles provides us with a consistent year-on-year on page74, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial basis for determining materiality by eliminating the volatility statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require identified during our audit above 1.5 million 2014: 1.5 million as well as us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the qualitative reasons.
Companys members as a body in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Going concern Jersey Law 1991 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to The Directors have voluntarily complied with Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R 3 of the UK whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Financial Conduct Authority and provided a statement in relation to going concern agreed by our prior consent in writing.
set out in the Directors Report, required for UK registered companies with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
What an audit of financial statements involves The Directors have requested that we review the statement on going concern as An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the if the Group were a UK registered company.
We have nothing to report having financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial performed our review.
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is This includes an assessment of: appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made bythe Directors: one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we and have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements going concern.
against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Other required reporting We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to Consistency of other information draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness ofcontrols, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in ouropinion: Report and Accounts the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with information in the Annual Report is: We have no the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently exceptions to materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge materially inconsistent with the information in the audited report arising acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any financial statements: or from this apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially responsibility.
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired inthe course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Other Matter the statement given by the Directors on page 74, in accordance We have no We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of Wolseley plc with Provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code exceptions to for the year ended 31 July 2015. the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as report arising awhole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides from this the information necessary for members to assess the Groups responsibility.
performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in thecourse of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 68, as required We have no Stuart Watson by Provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the exceptions to for and on behalf of  LLP Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters report arising Chartered Accountants andRecognised Auditors communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
28 September 2015 Wolseley plc 160 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
