113 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Independent auditors report to the members of Worldpay Group plc Opinions and conclusions arising from The risk in the US and therefore different audit our audit The recognition of transaction-based procedures are used in each case.
Our revenue and settlement balances arising audit procedures included, amongst 1 Our opinion on the financial statements in the payment processing cycle may be others, the use of IT audit experts is unmodified misstated or not presented in the correct throughout the audit process.
We have audited the financial statements financial period.
Furthermore, the of Worldpay Group plc for the year ended settlement balances may be We tested general IT controls related to 31 December 2015 set out on pages 118 to inappropriately classified within the access to programs and data, program 166.
In our opinion: balance sheet.
change and development and computer The financial statements give a true operations in order to address the risk of and fair view of the state of the Groups The processing of payments, from which unauthorised changes being made to the and of the parent Companys affairs as the Group generates the vast majority of operation of IT application controls.
at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups its revenues, is dependent on highly loss for the year then ended: complex IT systems with a number of We critically assessed the design, The Group financial statements have different bases for calculating revenue implementation and operating been properly prepared in accordance and for settling funds.
There were in effectiveness of IT application controls with International Financial Reporting excess of 13 billion transactions processed and tested that the systems are Standards as adopted by the European in the year with total gross transaction configured appropriately.
We tested Union: value in excess of 400bn, all requiring a controls around customer set up and The parent Company financial correct IT outcome.
In addition, the changes to master data that are designed statements have been properly appropriate recognition of revenue and to ensure the appropriate rates are prepared in accordance with UK settlement balances is dependent on core assigned to each merchant in the system Accounting Standards, including FRS finance processes and controls accurately based on signed contract terms.
We also 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: reporting on and reconciling these tested the manual controls over the and transactions.
reconciliation of settlement accounts to The financial statements have been scheme, merchant and internally prepared in accordance with the There is a risk that a system may not be generated reports.
requirements of the Companies Act configured correctly from the outset such 2006: and, as regards the Group that revenues and settlement amounts WPUK and Global eCom: Data was financial statements, Article 4 of the are calculated incorrectly, that the output extracted from the systems and IAS Regulation.
from the operational systems does not revenue was recalculated for a sample correctly flow through to the financial of merchants based on transaction 2 Our assessment of risks of material information systems, and that data and contracted rates to test the misstatement unauthorised changes may be made to completeness, existence and accuracy In arriving at our audit opinion above on any of these systems, which may result in of revenue.
Further analytical the financial statements the risks of the misstatement of revenue and procedures were performed over the material misstatement that had the settlement balances.
entire merchant population, using greatest effect on our audit were as transaction data and contracted rates.
follows: The output from these operational IT Controls testing was performed to systems is used in the reconciliation of assess completeness and accuracy of Accuracy, cut-off and classification settlement funds.
The correct the key inputs used in these of transaction-based revenue and classification of amounts within the procedures.
settlement balances, Revenue balance sheet is dependent upon 3,963.0m, Merchant float 696.4m, achieving appropriate cut-off which We agreed scheme debtor, merchant Scheme debtors 534.5m, Merchant accurately reflects the status of all in creditor and merchant float amounts to creditors 1,230.9m.
third-party confirmations and critically Refer to page 90 Audit Committee assessed the year-end cut-off, paying statement, pages 127 and 143 accounting Our response particular attention to the classification policy and pages 129 and 145 financial Our audit procedures varied by business between settlement funds and own disclosure.
unit and therefore we have split our cash on the balance sheet based upon response into two sections.
Whilst the risk the underlying legal and commercial is consistent across all business units, the rights to funds.
nature of systems, processes and controls vary between the business in the UK and 114 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Worldpay Group plc continued WPUS: A sample of revenue was tested Financial statement disclosures: We CVRs: The measurement of the CVRs at through examination of merchant cash also assessed whether the Groups amortised cost requires the Directors receipts, confirmations and inspection disclosures in respect of revenue to estimate the future cash flows of transaction detail.
In conjunction recognition and settlement accounts related to the instrument.
Similar to the with this, a detailed trend analysis of provided sufficient detail for users to five shares above, there is a large range revenue by month was performed to understand the nature of settlement of potential outcomes in value terms, identify one-off or unusual transactions transactions.
and therefore there is a risk of material and trends.
misstatement in the carrying value of Valuation of Visa Europe membership this financial liability.
Settlement balances were agreed to shares five shares 195.7m and related external data.
For example, the scheme Contingent Value Rights CVRs Our response debtors balance was agreed to the 140.9m five shares: Our audit procedures network remittance report and to Refer to page 89 Audit Committee included, amongst others, an subsequent receipt per the bank statement, pages 154 and 155 accounting assessment of the facts and statement: the net settlement policy and financial disclosure.
circumstances and rights and receivables and payables per the obligations attached to the instrument year-end settlement reconciliation The risk against the accounting literature, and were agreed to subsequent cash five shares and CVRs are financial consideration of a range of possible receipts or payments, including instruments five shares being a financial alternatives with respect to examination of a sample of payments asset and CVRs being a financial liability classification and valuation of the to assess whether they had been for the Group.
The carrying value of these instrument.
properly included or excluded from the financial instruments is dependent upon balance sheet: and the merchant the classification of those financial We compared the key input creditor balance was agreed to actual instruments on initial recognition, and assumptions within the Directors bank settlement activity after the subsequently upon the latest available valuation model to externally and year-end.
information and the Directors judgements internally derived data as well as our at each reporting date.
The CVRs are a own assessments.
Key inputs included Other key substantive procedures over financial liability that is recognised initially the likelihood of a transaction between settlement balances included selecting at fair value, and subsequently at Visa Inc. and Visa Europe occurring, the a sample of payments on the first day amortised cost, with any changes being value and form of possible subsequent to the year-end, for which recorded in the Consolidated Income consideration for the five shares, the we obtained remittances in order to Statement.
The five shares are a financial nature of potential clawbacks arising assess whether they were properly asset and the Directors have designated from Visa Europe contingent liabilities, included or excluded from the reported them as at fair value through profit or loss, and the applicable risk, discount liability, and inspecting contracts and therefore the five shares will be measured factors and likelihood applied to each settlement activity for a sample of the at fair value at each reporting period with possible outcome.
We considered the largest merchants in order to assess any changes being recorded in the correlation between the information whether the transactions were Consolidated income statement.
obtained and the judgements made by processed and recorded in the correct the Directors and evaluated the period.
These procedures provided five shares: There is no current active consistency of the judgements made evidence in respect of the classification market for the shares and therefore by the Directors with the relevant between settlement funds and own these instruments fall within level 3 of International Financial Reporting cash on the balance sheet.
the fair value hierarchy which requires Standards.
We utilised our own significant judgement in determining valuations specialists to support our fair value.
The Directors are required to challenge of the Directors key construct a valuation model that judgements.
Our assessment included considers the potential cash flows for consideration of the potential risk of a range of possible outcomes.
We gathered the potentially large range of internal and external information in outcomes in value terms, there is a relation to both the characteristics of, high level of judgement required and and the demand for, these instruments.
therefore there is a risk of material We also considered contradictory or misstatement in the valuation of this disconfirming evidence as relevant financial asset.
115 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Sensitivity analysis was performed in The risk Our procedures to assess the accuracy of order to assess the reasonableness of Worldpay support over 400,000 the bad debt provision included the assumptions applied by management merchants, most of which are small and consideration of cash collection from in arriving at the expected cash flows.
medium sized, which makes the merchants subsequent to the year-end.
assessment of impairment of trade We deducted post year-end cash CVRs: Our audit procedures included, receivables inherently difficult to track.
collections during the period of our testing amongst others, an assessment of the Reporting capabilities are limited for from the year-end trade receivables facts and circumstances and rights and certain IT systems in the Group which amount, and critically assessed the obligations attached to the instrument makes it difficult to obtain up to date, adequacy of the bad debt provision against the accounting literature, and complete and relevant data required to against the remaining outstanding consideration of a range of possible monitor and manage collections across receivable.
Where amounts remain unpaid, alternatives with respect to classification the entire merchant portfolio, and we evaluated the Directors judgements and measurement of the instrument.
therefore to reliably assess potential on recoverability, taking into account exposure and the resulting provision specific customer circumstances known We obtained the calculation of the requirement.
to the Directors, and publicly available carrying amount of the CVRs provided data on liquidations and insolvencies post by the Group and assessed the Provisions are made in respect of year-end.
appropriateness of the inputs into the impairment of trade receivables where calculation, recalculated the key there is objective evidence that the Group With respect to MPL our procedures components of the calculation and cannot recover the original expected cash included a critical assessment of the considered whether the methodology flows from the trade receivable due to output of the Groups internal monitoring applied was consistent with the events since the trade receivable was and review processes, focusing, in definition of amortised cost under IFRS initially recognised.
particular, on industries where there is a as adopted by the EU.
delay between a cardholder paying for a In addition, the Group also bears the risk good or service and when that good or The key input into the calculation was of recoverability of gross cardholder service is delivered by the merchant.
the forecast future cash flows in relation transaction amounts due from a merchant to the CVRs.
As the CVRs represent 90% that arise from a chargeback being raised We obtained copies of publicly available of the net post tax proceeds from a sale by a cardholder i. e. a claim from a industry outlook reports in order to assess of the five shares, the future cash flows cardholder where the payment has been the Directors judgements in respect of of the CVRs are intrinsically linked to made but the merchant has failed to amounts recorded for potential the five shares and therefore the deliver the goods or services.
The Group chargebacks that may not be recoverable assumptions applied are similar.
refer to this as the Merchant Potential from merchants.
Where a specific risk was Liability MPL exposure.
identified for a particular merchant, we Sensitivity analysis was performed in evaluated the Directors judgements on order to assess the reasonableness of With regards to MPL, significant potential exposure and recoverability, the assumptions applied by management judgement is required in assessing the risk taking into account specific customer in arriving at the expected cash flows.
of future chargebacks being raised in circumstances known to the Directors respect of payments that have already and publicly available information on the Financial statement disclosures: We been processed and the recoverability of financial performance of that merchant.
In also assessed the adequacy of the those amounts from merchants, for addition, we considered publicly available Groups disclosures in respect of the fair example due to bankruptcy or other data on liquidations and insolvencies post value hierarchy and sensitivities.
Completeness of trade receivables Our response Financial statement disclosures: We impairment provisions 38.0m and Our audit procedures included, amongst also assessed the adequacy of the MPL 0.1m others, assessment of the design and Groups disclosure about significant Refer to page 90 Audit Committee operating effectiveness of key manual judgements in relation to trade statement, page 126 accounting policy controls within the Groups merchant receivables impairment provisions and pages 143 to 145 financial disclosure.
onboarding and ongoing monitoring and MPL.
116 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of Worldpay Group plc continued 3 Our application of materiality and an none of which individually represented 5 We have nothing to report on the overview of the scope of our audit more than 4% of Group profit before tax.
disclosures of principal risks The materiality for the Group financial For these remaining components, we Based on the knowledge we acquired statements as a whole was set at 20m, performed analysis at an aggregated during our audit, we have nothing material determined with reference to a Group level to re-examine our assessment to add or draw attention to in relation to: benchmark of total revenues of 3,963.0m that there were no significant risks of The Directors statement of principal of which it represents 0.5%.
We consider material misstatement within these.
risks and uncertainties on pages 55 to revenue to be the most appropriate 66, concerning the principal risks, their benchmark as it provides a more stable The Group audit team instructed management, and, based on that, the measure year-on-year than Group profit component auditors as to the significant Directors assessment and expectations before tax at this point in the Groups areas to be covered, and the information of the Groups continuing in operation development after separation from RBS to be reported.
The Group audit team over the three years to 2018: or and given its capital structure pre-IPO.
approved the component materialities, The disclosures in Note 1 of the Financial which ranged from 8m to 15m, having statements concerning the use of the We report to the Audit Committee any regard to the mix of size and risk profile of going concern basis of accounting.
corrected or uncorrected identified the Group across the components.
The misstatements exceeding 1m, in addition work on one of the four components was 6 We have nothing to report in respect of to other identified misstatements that performed by a component auditor and the matters on which we are required to warranted reporting on qualitative the rest by the Group audit team.
Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are The Group audit team visited the required to report to you if, based on the Of the Groups 31 reporting components, component auditor in the United States, knowledge we acquired during our audit, we subjected four to audits for Group including an assessment of the audit risk we have identified other information in the reporting purposes and two to specified and strategy, and telephone meetings Annual Report that contains a material risk-focused audit procedures.
The were held with the component auditor inconsistency with either that knowledge components for which we performed throughout the year.
At these visits and or the Financial statements, a material specified risk-focused procedures were meetings, the Group audit team also misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise not individually financially significant discussed the findings reported in more misleading.
enough to require an audit for Group detail and assessed the adequacy of the reporting purposes, but did include work performed by the component In particular, we are required to report to specific individual risks that needed to be auditor.
The Group team also We have identified material performed audit work over interest and 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed inconsistencies between the finance cost-related account balances as by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified knowledge we acquired during our audit part of the audit of the Group In our opinion: and the Directors statement that they consolidation.
The audits of the four The part of the Directors remuneration consider that the Annual report and reporting components and the work report to be audited has been properly financial statements taken as a whole is performed on the Group consolidation prepared in accordance with the fair, balanced and understandable and covered 96% of total Group revenue: 83% Companies Act 2006: and provides the information necessary for of total profits and losses that made up The information given in the Strategic shareholders to assess the Groups the Group profit before tax: and 92% of report and the Directors report for the performance, business model and total Group assets: and 58% of total Group financial year for which the financial strategy: or liabilities.
statements are prepared is consistent The Audit Committee report does not with the financial statements: and appropriately address matters The specified risk-focused procedures The information given in the Corporate communicated by us to the Audit covered 4% of total Group assets relating governance statement set out on page Committee.
to settlement balances and 39% of total 95 with respect to internal control and Group liabilities relating to the borrowings risk management systems in relation to as shown on page 148.
The aggregate financial reporting processes and about coverage achieved was 96% of total Group share capital structures is consistent revenue: 83% of total profits and losses with the financial statements.
that made up the Group profit before tax: 96% of total Group assets: and 97% of total Group liabilities.
The remaining 17% of total Group profit before tax is represented by 27 reporting components, 117 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Under the Companies Act 2006 we are Scope and responsibilities required to report to you if, in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Adequate accounting records have not responsibilities statement set out on page been kept by the parent Company, or 112, the Directors are responsible for the returns adequate for our audit have not preparation of the financial statements been received from branches not and for being satisfied that they give a true visited by us: or and fair view.
A description of the scope of The parent Company financial an audit of financial statements is statements and the part of the provided on the Financial Reporting Directors Remuneration report to be Councils website at audited are not in agreement with the www.
accounting records and returns: or This report is made solely to the Certain disclosures of Directors Companys members as a body and is remuneration specified by law are not subject to important explanations and made: or disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, We have not received all the published on our website at information and explanations we www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, require for our audit: or which are incorporated into this report as A Corporate governance statement has if set out in full and should be read to not been prepared by the Company.
provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have Under the Listing Rules we are required undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
to review: The Directors statement, set out on page 66, in relation to going concern: Michael Harper and Senior Statutory Auditor The part of the Corporate governance for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, statement on pages 82 to 96 relating to Statutory Auditor the Companys compliance with the 11 8 March 2016 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Chartered Accountants Governance Code specified for our 15 Canada Square review.
London E14 5GL We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Other matter prior period financial statements In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is not modified, we note that the prior period financial statements were not audited.
Consequently, International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland require the auditor to state that the corresponding figures contained within these financial statements are unaudited.
