Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Independent auditors report To the members of Zoopla Property Group Plc Opinion on financial statements of Zoopla Property Group Plc f the disclosures on pages 16 to 19 that describe those risks and In our opinion: explainhow they are being managed or mitigated: f the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the f the Directors statement in Note 1.4 to the financial statements about Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2015 whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over f the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in aperiod of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs financial statements: and as adopted by the European Union: f the Directors explanation on page 19 as to how they have assessed f the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will f the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated statement of We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of comprehensive income, Consolidated and Company statement of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
financial position, Consolidated and Company statement of cash flows, However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, Consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity the related this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as Notes 1 to 28 to theconsolidated financial statements and Notes 1 to 13 agoing concern.
to the Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs Independence asadopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Companies Act 2006.
Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors Our assessment of risks of material misstatement statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those accounting contained within Note 1.4 to the financial statements and the that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: f the Directors confirmation on page 19 that they have carried out arobust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition in the Property Services division In order to address the risk of revenue completeness we have: Completeness of subscription arrangements i assessed Managements processes and controls in respect of Revenue in the Property Services division primarily consists of recurring theappropriate recognition of revenue, in particular the billing of subscription payments in return for property listings on the Groups customers in line with contractual terms: websites.
Individual contracts exist with each customer with a range ofdifferent terms and conditions, and as a result there are a significant ii selected a random sample of estate agents, ascertained whether number of agreements.
Consequently there is a risk that customer they were a Zoopla customer, and if so obtained the underlying subscription agreements may not be appropriately captured and contractual terms and traced them back to the CRM system to accounted for in line with underlying contractual terms and hence verifythe completeness of information: and therevenue population may not be complete.
iii for a sample of customer contracts, verified that revenue has been Refer to notes 1.5, 1.20 and 2 for the Group accounting policy, appropriately recognised in line with the contractual terms and IAS 18.
Managements consideration of critical accounting judgements anddisclosure note respectively.
Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 63 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued To the members of Zoopla Property Group Plc Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition in the Comparison Services division In order to address the risk of that revenue is recognition and valued Valuation of accrued income appropriately we have: This is a new risk for 2015 following the uSwitch acquisition.
i assessed Managements processes and controls in respect of In the Comparison Services division, revenue is accrued based on an theappropriate recognition of revenue, in particular the valuation estimate of the number of switch transactions through the Groups ofswitches for customers in line with contractual terms and the website likely to be confirmed by subsequent customer confirmations.
validity of switches to subsequent customer confirmations: These typically occur up to one month after the initial transaction so ii verified that for a sample of customer contracts, that revenue has Management estimates at each period end the likely confirmation percentage been appropriately recognised in line with the contractual terms based on a detailed analysis of historical experience.
This is inherently andIAS 18: judgemental, albeit, there is an established history and pattern by customer.
iii analysed the monthly confirmation rate over the course of the year Refer to notes 1.5, 1.20 and 2 for the group accounting policy, toassess the reliability of the estimate underpinning the September managements consideration of critical accounting judgements and accrual: and disclosure note respectively.
iv selected a sample of accrued income balances to subsequent customer confirmations to confirm the switches that occurred.
Accounting for the acquisition of uSwitch In order to address the risk of valuation, we have conducted the In June 2015, the Group completed the acquisition of the entire issued following procedures: share capital of uSwitch and certain other institutional and management i audited the acquired balance sheet prior to the purchase price shareholders for a total consideration of 177.6 million, including the fair allocation to gain assurance over the valuation of net assets acquired: value of amounts contingent on future performance.
The purchase price allocation PPA exercise is inherently judgemental.
There is a risk that ii engaged our internal experts to review the methodology and ifManagement uses inappropriate methodologies or assumptions assumptions employed by Management in its valuation of acquired e. g. unrealistic forecasts, discount rates or growth rates within the intangible assets: obtained the underlying cash flow forecasts and PPAexercise, that the valuation of acquired intangible assets and replacement cost calculations and discussed them with Management goodwill could be materially misstated.
to challenge the reasonableness of the supporting calculations: Refer to Notes 1.9, 1.20 and 14 for the Group accounting policy, iii considered the judgements taken with respect to the contingent Managements consideration of critical accounting judgements consideration and future remuneration that is expected to be paid, anddisclosure note respectively.
examining the basis for Managements expectation that uSwitch willoutperform its budget: iv confirmed that the useful economic lives allocated to each class ofasset is appropriate based on their nature and Group accounting policies: and v reviewed the associated disclosures within the financial statements to assess whether they are in accordance with IFRS 3.
Last year our report included two other risks which are not included in our report this year: Accounting for share-based payment arrangements including warrants, which is no longer considered material to the Group, and Accounting for the Group reorganisation and IPO, which was a one-off event in the prior year.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 41 and 42.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality An overview of the scope of our audit We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that Weuse materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit evaluating the results of our work.
work at two locations, Zoopla and, following the acquisition during the year, uSwitch.
Both of these were subject to a full audit.
These two We determined materiality for the Group to be 1.7 million 2014: 1.4million, locations represent the principal business units and account for all of the which is 5% 2014: 5% of pre-tax profit and below 1.5% 2014: 1.5% Groups net assets, all of the Groups revenue and all of the Groups profit ofequity.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement all audit differences in excess of 35,000 2014: 30,000, as well as differences identified above.
Our audit work at the two locations was executed at below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that than Group materiality and ranged from 0.8 million to 1.4 million.
we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process.
64 Helping consumers make smarter decisions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements f the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance f the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and consistent with the financial statements.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality Matters on which we are required to report by exception controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records review team and independent partner reviews.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance inouropinion: with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work f we have not received all the information and explanations we require has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members for our audit: or those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not f adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, from branches not visited by us: or orfor the opinions we have formed.
f the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Directors remuneration by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: isnot in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we nothing to report arising from these matters.
read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and Corporate governance statement to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain ofperforming the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Mark Lee-Amies Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP f materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor statements: or London, United Kingdom f apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 1 December 2015 with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or f otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 65
