Report of the independent auditors 59 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC UNITED KINGDOM OPINION Report on the group financial statements Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our opinion Our responsibilities and those of the directors In our opinion, British Telecommunications plcs group financial As explained more fully in the Statement of directors statements the financial statements : responsibilities set out on page 58, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
at 31 March 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the have been properly prepared in accordance with International financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & European Union: and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the group, purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume in addition to applying IFRS as adopted by the European Union, responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to has also applied IFRS as issued by the International Accounting whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Standards Board IASB.
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In our opinion, the financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
What we have audited An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts British Telecommunications plcs financial statements comprise: and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from the group balance sheet as at 31 March 2015: material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This the group income statement and group statement of includes an assessment of: comprehensive income for the year then ended: the group cash flow statement for the year then ended: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the the group statement of changes in equity for the year then groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and ended: and adequately disclosed: the notes to the financial statements, which include a the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made summary of significant accounting policies and other by the directors: and explanatory information.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRS judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, as adopted by the European Union.
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have We test and examine information, using sampling and other made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain they have made assumptions and considered future events.
audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and information in the Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 to the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently statements.
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Adequacy of information and explanations received inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and Other matter explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to We have reported separately on the parent company financial report arising from this responsibility.
statements of British Telecommunications plc for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration Paul Barkus Senior Statutory Auditor specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report for and on behalf of  LLP arising from this responsibility.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 13 May 2015 03 802639 Financial Review p47-60.
indd 59 5 19 2015 11:45:20 AM 60 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM TO ThE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ShAREhOLDERS OF BRITISh TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC THE COMPANY UNITED STATES OPINION In our opinion, the accompanying group balance sheets and A companys internal control over financial reporting is a the related group income statements, group statements of process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the comprehensive income, group statements of changes in equity reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial and group cash flow statements present fairly, in all material statements for external purposes in accordance with generally respects, the financial position of British Telecommunications plc accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over and its subsidiaries at 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014, and financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that i the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, three years in the period ended 31 March 2015 in conformity accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the the assets of the company: ii provide reasonable assurance that International Accounting Standards Board.
Also in our opinion, transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation the company maintained, in all material respects, effective of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted internal control over financial reporting as of 31 March 2015, accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the based on criteria established in the Turnbull Guidance.
company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company: and iii provide The companys management is responsible for these financial reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection statements, for maintaining effective internal control over of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness assets that could have a material effect on the financial of internal control over financial reporting, included in statements.
managements evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as set out in the first two Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial paragraphs of Internal control over financial reporting in the reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, Report of the Directors, Statutory information, of the British projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015. are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
statements and on the companys internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards  llp require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable London, United Kingdom assurance about whether the financial statements are free of 13 May 2015 material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
