Independent auditors report to the members of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC only Our response: Our procedures included critically Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit assessing the appropriateness of the assumptions used to 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified value the earn-out payment, including the expected We have audited the financial statements of Aberdeen Asset growth rates, forecast cash flows and discount rate Management PLC for the year ended 30 September 2015 set applied.
We evaluated, where possible, the assumptions out on pages 94 to 155 and the appendix on pages 164 to used by comparing these to externally derived data, 166.
In our opinion: compared revenue growth rates to AAMs peer group via the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Bloomberg and performed a retrospective review state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as comparing the Groups previous assessments to the at 30 September 2015 and of the Groups profit for the actual results.
We compared revenue growth assumptions year then ended: to growth expectations for market participants that are comparable to the business and benchmarked the the Group financial statements have been properly discount rate against those of comparable quoted prepared in accordance with International Financial companies.
We compared wider publicly available data on Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union other variables such as the risk free rate element of the IFRSs as adopted by the EU : discount rate to that used by the Group.
the parent company financial statements have been We also considered the adequacy of the Groups properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in by the EU as applied in accordance with the Companies arriving at the fair value of the liability.
Act 2006: and Our findings: We found the assumptions used in the the financial statements have been prepared in earn-out models and the resulting estimates to be mildly accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act cautious and that note 29 is proportionate in disclosing 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, the sensitivity.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Assessment of impairment of Intangible Assets 1,486.2m We summarise below the risks of material misstatement Refer to page 65 to 66 Audit Committee Report, page 98 that had the greatest effect on our audit, our key audit accounting policy and note 13 financial disclosures.
procedures to address those risks and our findings from those The risk: We view intangible assets in relation to goodwill, procedures in order that the Companys members as a body management contracts and distribution agreements to be may better understand the process by which we arrived at a significant risk of misstatement as a result of a our audit opinion.
Our findings are the result of procedures combination of factors.
1 There is significant judgement undertaken in the context of and solely for the purpose of our included when assessing these balances for impairment statutory audit opinion on the financial statements as a whole triggers and when selecting the appropriate assumptions and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do for impairment assessment model 2 The key judgements not express discrete opinions on separate elements of the are impacted by the level of outflows of business, which financial statements.
has been higher in the current year than in previous years.
The outcome of the assessments could vary significantly Valuation of the Earn-Out Liability 46.8m and, due to the size of the intangibles recognised, have a Refer to page 66 Audit Committee Report, page 96 material impact if different assumptions and judgements accounting policy and notes 14 and 29 financial were applied.
Our response to goodwill: Our procedures included Valuation of earn-out liability critically assessing the assumptions and methodology The risk: The Earn-out liability is stated at fair value, used by the Group in their value-in-use impairment being based on expected future cash flows as determined assessment.
We compared the Groups assumptions to by the Group.
The assumptions include the expected externally derived data and our own assessments of key performance and growth of relevant operations, and the inputs such as projected economic growth, client discount rate used to obtain the present value.
Given the retention, cost inflation and discount rates and assessed level of judgement involved in deriving these assumptions sensitivities, as well as performing break-even analysis on and the sensitivity of the fair value, this is an area key assumptions.
We tested the Groups procedures considered to be at risk of material misstatement.
around the preparation of the budget, upon which the value-in-use model is based, as well as comparing the sum of projected discounted cash flows to the market capitalisation of the Group to assess whether the projected cash flows appear reasonable.
We used our own valuation specialists to support our procedures.
156 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate information Materiality for the Group Financial Statements Our response to indefinite life intangibles: Our procedures included critically assessing the profit before tax including amortisation, assumptions and methodology used by the Group in their excluding acquisition costs Materiality fair value less costs to sell model, by comparing the key Whole financial assumptions fee rates, projected assets under 353.8m 17.5m statements management AuM and revenue multipliers on materiality projected cash flows against data derived from internal sources, such as the Groups own implied fee rates and reported AuM, and external sources, including recent transactions, which were used to derive an appropriate Misstatements reported to the revenue multiple.
We performed a sensitivity analysis 0.9m Audit Committee based on the key assumptions of the models.
Audit coverage of the Group Financial Statements Our response to definite life intangibles: We critically profit before tax Revenue Total assets assessed the Groups assessment of definite life intangibles 6% 10% 6% for indicators of impairment by considering the potential impact of business performance, such as fund outflows on the intangible.
Where indicators of impairment were identified, we critically assessed the Groups impairment 94% 90% 94% assessment for those adopting a similar audit approach to the goodwill model described above.
We assessed the useful lives of each definite life asset by reviewing their performance in the period, such as outflows, and assessing Group coverage Not covered the impact of any changes to the contracts in the context of the expected future period of economic consumption.
The group has over 100 reporting components.
We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures We subjected 21 to audits for group reporting purposes.
in respect of impairment testing and whether disclosures These 21 components account for the portion of the groups about sensitivity to the outcome to changes in key results, revenues and assets shown in the graphs above.
assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in Four of these 21 audits were performed by component the key assumptions and the requirements of auditors and 17 by the Group audit team.
The Group audit accounting standards.
team instructed component auditors as to the significant Our findings: We have found the assumptions and areas to be covered including the relevant risks detailed resulting estimates used in each of the impairment above, and the information to be reported back.
The Group assessments to be balanced.
Note 13 proportionately audit team approved the component materialities which discloses the key assumptions and sensitivities.
ranged from 9.2 to 13.9 million based on the mix of size and risk profile of the components within the Group.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The Group audit team reviewed reporting component The materiality for the Group financial statements as a audit files in the USA, Singapore and Luxembourg during whole was set at 17.5 million, determined with reference planning and fieldwork to assess the audit strategy and to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, normalised to findings.
Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors exclude one-off acquisition costs as disclosed in note 4, of of these components.
353.8 million, of which it represents 4.9%.
We report to the At these meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified team were discussed in more detail, and any further work misstatements exceeding 0.9 million, in addition to other required by the Group audit team was then performed by the identified misstatements that warranted reporting on component auditor.
com 157 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies the parent company financial statements and the part of Act 2006 is unmodified the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not In our opinion: in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be law are not made: or audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: financial statements are prepared is consistent with the the directors statement in relation to going concern set financial statements.
out on page 89, and long term viability on page 43: and 5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on principal risks page 54 in the Corporate Governance Report relating to Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for relation to: our review.
the directors statement of long term viability on page 43, We have nothing to report in respect of the concerning the principal risks, their management, and, above responsibilities.
based on that, the directors assessment and expectations Scope of report and responsibilities of the groups continuing in operation over the 3 years to As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities 30 September 2018: or Statement set out on page 91, the directors are responsible the disclosures in the directors report set out on for the preparation of the financial statements and for being page 89, concerning the use of the going concern basis satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on 6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters in the Financial Reporting Councils website at which we are required to report by exception www.
This report is made Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you solely to the Companys members as a body and subject if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our have identified other information in the annual report that responsibilities, published on our website at contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014b, which are or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be or that is otherwise misleading.
read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, In particular, we are required to report to you if: the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee section of the Corporate Governance Catherine Burnet Senior Statutory Auditor report does not appropriately address matters for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Chartered Accountants Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 37 Albyn Place you if, in our opinion: AB10 1JB adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 27 November 2015 parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or 158 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
