130920 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 130920 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2016 14:17 Page 33 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc In our opinion the financial statements: Opinion on financial give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of statements of the companys return for the year then ended: Aberforth Smaller have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Companies Trust plc Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements comprise the Income Statement, Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes 1 to 20.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the Going concern and the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 a to the financial directors assessment statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the company contained of the principal risks within the strategic report on page 5.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: that would threaten the directors' confirmation on page 5 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the the solvency or liquidity principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its business model, of the company future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on page 5 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement on page 20 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the director's explanation on page 5 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and Independence we confirm that we are independent of the company and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect Our assessment of risks on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the of material engagement team.
misstatement Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation and ownership of We have performed the following procedures to address this risk: investments critically assessed the design and implementation of the controls over valuation and The listed investments of the ownership of investments: Company 1,196m 2014: agreed 100% of the bid prices of quoted investments on the investment ledger at year end to 1,139m make up 100.3% of total closing bid prices published by an independent pricing source: net assets 1,192m 1,107m.
agreed 100% of the Companys investment portfolio at the year end to confirmation received Please see notes 9 and 18. directly from the custodian and depositary: and Investments listed on recognised reviewed the internal controls report over Northern Trust, as it applied to custody and exchanges are valued at the attended the Audit Committee meeting at which the Northern Trust controls report was closing bid price at the year end.
evaluated to assess the adequacy of the design and implementation of controls at the There is a risk that investments custodian.
may not be valued correctly or may not represent the property of the Company.
Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 33 130920 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 130920 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2016 14:17 Page 34 Independent Auditors Report Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition, We have performed the following procedures to address this risk: completeness and allocation critically assessed the design and implementation of the controls over revenue recognition, between revenue and capital completeness and allocation: Dividends from equity shares for a sample of corporate actions and all special dividends we challenged managements totalling 38m 2014: 30m are rationale for the allocation between revenue and capital against the requirements of the AICs accounted for on an ex-dividend Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies date as revenue, except where: in and Venture Capital Trusts SORP and agreed details of the dividend to a third party source the opinion of the Board, the to evidence the nature of the dividend and completeness of the listing: dividend is capital in nature, in evaluated the accounting policies for revenue recognition against the requirements of UK which case it is treated as a return Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and the SORP: and of capital.
Please see note 2. for a sample of investments, agreed the ex-dividend dates and rates for dividends declared, There is a risk that revenue is obtained from an independent pricing source to the Companys dividend listing and bank incomplete or incorrectly statements to determine that the dividends have been correctly recognised and to determine allocated between revenue and completeness of the population.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 27.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it Our application of probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or materiality influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the company to be 11.9m 2014: 11.1m, which is 1% 2014: 1% of Total Net Assets.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 238,000 2014: 221,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including An overview of the internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks scope of our audit of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
In our opinion: Opinion on other the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in matters prescribed by accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the Companies Act the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for 2006 which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequacy of explanations received and accounting we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or records adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
34 Financial Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc Independent Auditors Report Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our information in the Annual opinion, information in the annual report is: Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for Respective the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
responsibilities of Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with directors and auditor International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Scope of the audit of sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material the financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the statements accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Partridge Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, Edinburgh, United Kingdom 27 January 2016 a The maintenance and integrity of the Aberforth Partners LLP web site is the responsibility of the partners of Aberforth Partners LLP: the work carried out by the auditor of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Financial Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 35
