Independent auditors report to the members of Admiral Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising fromouraudit Profit commission 85.4 million 2014: 71.8 million Refer to page 50 Report of the Audit Committee, note 5d accounting 1.
Our opinion on the financial statementsis unmodified policy and financial disclosures.
We have audited the financial statements of Admiral Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 74 to 113.
In our opinion: The risk The recognition of profit commission income from co-insurers andquota share reinsurers is initially in line with the loss ratios booked in the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups thefinancial statements and will vary with movements in the loss ratios.
and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Therecognition of this income is therefore subject to the same level of Groups profit for the year then ended: estimation as the claims liability noted above until, in the case of quota the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance sharereinsurance, the relevant contracts are commuted, at which point with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European nofurther profit commission is recognised.
In addition, different contractual Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : arrangements are in place with the groups co-insurance and quota share reinsurance partners and there is a risk that the differences in arrangements the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared are not appropriately accounted for, resulting in significant misstatement.
inaccordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Our response Our audit procedures included, in addition to our procedures over insurance liabilities noted above, forming an expectation of the profit the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the commission income based on loss ratios applied and contractual terms requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group ofeach arrangement, comparing this to actual profit commission income financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
recognised and corroborating any changes to the profit commission arrangements 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement during the year.
We have also considered the adequacy of the groups In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of disclosures about the arrangements in place.
material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows.
We continue to perform audit procedures over co-insurance and reinsurance Insurance liabilities 1,725.0 million 2014: 1,596.0 million arrangements.
However, given that there are no significant changes to the Refer to page 50 Report of the Audit Committee, note 5d accounting underlying contracts and estimation of co-insurance and reinsurance arrangements policy and financial disclosures.
this year, we have not assessed this as one of the risks that had the greatest effect on our audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report The risk The provision for claims outstanding comprises the estimated cost this year.
of settling all claims incurred but unpaid at the balance sheet date, whether reported or not.
This is a judgemental and complex area due to the inherent 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of uncertainty of estimating claims not yet reported, future costs of settling claims, our audit discount rates and whether customers will be awarded a lump sum claim The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at ora periodic payment.
The amounts involved are potentially significant and 16.0million, determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before the application of accounting standards to determine the amount, if any, to taxation of which it represents 4%.
We report to the Audit Committee any be provided as a liability, is inherently subjective.
One of the most significant corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.8 million, uncertainties relates to the reserve held for large bodily injury claims and actual inaddition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on and potential Periodic Payment Order settlements PPOs.
The UK motor qualitative grounds.
portfolio presents the biggest risk of material misstatement.
Of the groups 12 reporting components, we subjected five to audits for Group Our response Our audit procedures included testing the controls over the reporting purposes, and three to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
underwriting and claims process and performing analysis over the trends in Thecomponents for which we performed specified risk-focussed procedures claims frequency and size.
Using our actuarial specialists to support us, we were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for assessed the level of reserves held for incurred claims through evaluating the Group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that competence, capability and objectivity of the Groups external actuary, assessing needed to beaddressed.
the actuarial methodologies employed, including the use of paid and incurred The components within the scope of our work accounted for 94% of group chain ladders and the average cost per claim method, challenging key judgements, net revenue, 98% of Group profit before tax and 97% of total group assets.
for example the extent to which improvements in claims trends are taken into account in reserve projections, and benchmarking key assumptions The remaining 6% of total Group net revenue, 2% of group profit before tax against KPMG sourced market data.
In respect of the amounts related to large and 3% of total group assets is represented by four reporting components, bodily injury claims and actual and potential PPOs, we observed the process, none of which individually represented more than 2% of any of total group and tested the controls in place, for identifying and assessing the required net revenue, group profit before tax or total group assets.
reserve for large claims and for updating this reserve as more information For these remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated becomes available: observed the process for assessing cases that have the group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks potential to be settled as PPOs and testing the output for a selection of of material misstatement within these.
cases: and benchmarked the key assumptions made in calculating large bodily injury claims reserves, including mortality in the case of PPO cases The Group audit team instructed two component auditors as to the significant and discount rates applied.
The focus of our work is the UK Motor portfolio.
risk focused audit procedures to be performed.
The procedures on the remaining components were performed by the Group audit team.
The Group audit In respect of the margin held above the actuarial best estimate, we assessed team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 480,000 the rationale for this margin including consideration of the level of prudence to 14,000,000, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group within the margin, the consistency with which the underlying judgements across the components.
have been applied in relation to the current year and prior periods and the existence of any bias.
We have also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures about the margin held above the actuarial best estimate, and the degree of estimation and sensitivity of the claims provision to key assumptions.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 72 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Opinions and conclusions arising fromouraudit continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act the Directors statement, set out on pages 55 and 69, in relation to going 2006 is unmodified concern and longer-term viability: and In our opinion: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 44 to 57 relating the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
forthe financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on on page 71, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial pages 54 to 55 in the Internal Control and Risk Management Statement statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to Adescription of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, material to add or draw attention to in relation to: which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have the Directors statement of the longer-term viability statement on page 55, undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 2018: or the disclosures in note 2 of the financial statements concerning the use ofthe going concern basis of accounting.
Salim Tharani Senior Statutory Auditor 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, weare required to report by exception Statutory Auditor Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the Chartered Accountants 3 Assembly Square knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information Britannia Quay in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that Cardiff knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or CF10 4AX that is otherwise misleading.
2 March 2016 In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Statement does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require forour audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 73
