Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 47 Independent Auditors report to the members of Alliance Trust PLC the directors explanation on page 33 as to how they have Opinion on financial statements of assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period Alliance Trust PLC they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have In our opinion the financial statements: a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and over the period of their assessment, including any related of the Groups profit and the Parent Companys profit for disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications the year then ended: or assumptions.
have been properly prepared in accordance with We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material adopted by the European Union: and uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee have been prepared in accordance with the requirements as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group and Parent Independence Company balance sheets, the Group and Parent Company We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils income statements, the Group and Parent Company statements Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are of comprehensive income, the Group and Parent Company independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical statements of changes in equity, the Group and Parent responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also Company statements of cash flows, and the related notes 1 to confirm we have not provided any prohibited non-audit services 26.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in referred to in those standards.
their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Misstatement Going concern and the directors The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the assessment of the principal risks allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of that would threaten the solvency or the engagement team.
liquidity of the group The Audit Committee has requested that while not required under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors include in our report any significant findings in respect of these statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern assessed risks of material misstatement.
basis of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group on page 33.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 34 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on page 19 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: 48 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 How the scope of our audit Risk responded to the risk Findings Valuation and ownership of listed investments Listed investments represent the most Valuation was assessed by understanding We did not identify any differences that significant number on the balance the design and implementation of key exceeded 1% between the prices used sheet and are the main driver of the controls around listed investments and by by the Group for valuing their listed Groups performance.
Listed investments the testing of 100% of the valuations of investments and the independent pricing represented 87% of total assets of the listed investments directly with independent sources used in our testing.
Group at 31 December 2015 see notes 9 pricing sources.
Any differences over 1% and 23. were investigated further.
There is a risk that the prices quoted in respect of the listed investments held by the Group may not be reflective of fair value see note 23.
There is a risk over the recording and We reviewed the SSAE16 controls report No findings were identified from our testing custody of listed investments, and whether to understand the controls in place at performed on the SSAE16 controls report.
listed investments recorded are the the custodian over the ownership of No unexplained differences were identified property of the Group.
We have also assessed whether from our testing of the custodian the service auditors were professionally confirmation.
competent and that the scope of the controls tested were appropriate to give us assurance over the risk identified.
We tested ownership of 100% of listed investments by confirming the holdings at year end with the independent custodian and reconciling the confirmation to the Groups accounting records.
Any differences were investigated further.
Valuation of unlisted investments Unlisted investments are valued using We tested the design and implementation Investments in subsidiaries methodologies agreed by management of controls around the valuation of unlisted In respect of the valuation of an investment and there are key inputs to the valuation investments.
In addition we tailored our in a subsidiary we identified an assumption calculations which reflect managements substantive testing to reflect the different used by the external valuer which was judgement see note 23.
There is a risk categories of unlisted investments held in unsupported.
We assessed the impact of this that the application of an inappropriate the portfolio see note 23.
This testing assumption on the valuation and concluded valuation methodology and or the use of included reviewing and challenging that it did not result in a significant inappropriate assumptions could result in managements and external valuations for difference in the determination of fair the valuation of unlisted investments being a sample of unlisted investments, focusing value or the overall results recognised.
on the appropriateness of the valuation this assumption had been excluded from methodology and assumptions used within the valuation, the net asset position of the the calculations e. g. cash flow projections: Group would be approximately 5m higher growth projections: discount rate used.
Private Equity We found an instance where management had applied an incorrect price in the valuation of a fund-to-fund private equity investment.
In addition, we identified an instance where management had not reflected a drawdown cash flow in its roll forward of the most recent fair value for a direct private equity investment.
We assessed the impact of these errors and concluded that they did not result in a significant difference in the determination of fair value or the overall results recognised.
If the correct prices had been used, the net asset position of the Group would be approximately 1.1m lower at 31 December 2015.
Mineral rights No adjustments were identified from the testing performed.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 49 Last year our report included one other risk which is not Opinion on other matters prescribed included in our report this year: Application of IFRS 10 by the Companies Act 2006 Consolidated Financial Statements, incorporating Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27.
As the In our opinion: initial application of this accounting standard was completed the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be in the prior year we have assessed that this does not represent audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the a material risk of misstatement in the current year and it is not Companies Act 2006: and considered to have had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts the information given in the Strategic Report and the of the engagement team.
Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the The description of risks above should be read in conjunction financial statements.
with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 29.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit Matters on which we are required to of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our report by exception opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Our application of materiality Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic we have not received all the information and explanations decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be we require for our audit: or changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of adequate accounting records have not been kept by the our work.
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not We determined materiality for the Group to be 29.5 million been received from branches not visited by us: or 2014: 30.2 million, which is approximately 1% 2014: 1% the parent company financial statements are not in of net assets.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 589,000 2014: 603,900, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Directors remuneration We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration financial statements.
have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from An overview of the scope of our audit these matters.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide Corporate Governance Statement controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Our Group audit scope included the audit of Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part all subsidiaries and these were subject to a full scope audit for of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the the year ended 31 December 2015.
Audits were performed for companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK local statutory purposes at a local materiality level calculated by Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report reference to the scale of the business concerned.
50 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 Our duty to read other information in the Scope of the audit of the financial Annual Report statements Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give the annual report is: reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free materially inconsistent with the information in the audited from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or financial statements: or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant the course of performing our audit: or accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall otherwise misleading.
presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report In particular, we are required to consider whether we have to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge statements and to identify any information that is apparently acquired during the audit and the directors statement materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing understandable and whether the annual report appropriately the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Calum Thomson Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Respective responsibilities of directors Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor and auditor London, United Kingdom As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities 3 March 2016 Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
