ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Allied Minds plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Allied Minds plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 107 to 164.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the groups loss for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows in decreasing order of significance : Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value $535.8 million Risk vs 2014 Refer to pages 99 to 100 Audit Committee Report and pages 138 to 141 financial disclosures The risk The Group owns 28 subsidiaries in which it has ownership stakes of between 48% and 100%.
The results and financial position of the subsidiaries are consolidated in the group accounts.
Although the Groups holdings in subsidiaries are not included in the Groups Statement of Financial Position at fair value, the financial statements do include additional disclosure in relation to the Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value of the subsidiaries, as, in the directors view, the fair value of the subsidiaries is very pertinent to the shareholders and other users of the financial statements.
The valuation methodologies are based primarily on net present value or risk-adjusted net present value from discounted cash flows.
A small minority of the valuations are based on recent third party investment or asset-based methodologies see note 11 for more details.
In the current year not all of the subsidiaries have been subject to a new valuation as at 31 December 2015 as management believes that the value of these subsidiaries has not changed significantly when compared to 31 December 2014.
The Groups subsidiaries are, for the most part, still at the development stage and the majority do not yet generate revenues.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting the trading of such companies the Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value disclosures in the group accounts, this has been determined to be a significant risk.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, Assessing the appropriateness of the valuation model used for each subsidiary and obtaining an understanding of how the forecasts are compiled.
We obtained and analysed the valuations prepared by an external expert on behalf of the Company.
We used our own valuation specialist to assist us in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used in the valuations.
Page 102 of 165 030 c112021 5.5. indd 102 21 04 2016 13:27 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Allied Minds plc only continued We critically assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions underlying the forecasts, including assumptions over projected revenue and operating costs and the discount rates applied, assessing also for consistency with the assumptions used in the prior year.
In doing this we used our knowledge of each subsidiary and its industry with reference to both internal management information and externally derived data and benchmarks, including market size data, royalty rates and competitor analyses based on information publically available.
Where values are based on recent transactions from third party investments we assessed the accuracy of the data used.
Where no new valuations have been prepared in the current year or there was no third party funding round in the year we assessed the trading performance of the related subsidiaries compared to forecasts.
We challenged the Groups explanation of variances and considered the progression of the entity towards achieving milestones set.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures were consistent with the valuations performed and whether the Groups disclosures adequately highlight the uncertainty inherent in the valuations.
Financial instruments preferred shares classification and valuation $94.1 million Risk vs 2014 New risk Refer to page 100 Audit Committee Report, pages 114 to 116 accounting policy and pages 146 to 147 and 149 to 150 financial disclosures The risk The Group finances its operations and subsidiaries partly through financial instruments such as preferred shares.
There is a significant level of judgement in relation to assessing the terms of the instruments to identify whether the instruments meets the criteria to be classified as debt or equity and the resulting NCI impact : Further, the Group has elected to fair value the financial instruments through profit and loss.
There is a significant level of judgement around the assumptions used.
Due to these factors this has been determined to be a significant risk.
Our response in this area our audit procedures included, We critically assessed the conclusions reached by the Group in relation to the debt versus equity classification of the issued financial instruments by considering the key terms and features of the contracts through applying and interpreting the relevant sections of the accounting standards and also assessing the impact of the classification on the NCI disclosure: We obtained and analysed the valuations prepared by an external expert on behalf of the Company and we critically assessed the appropriateness of the valuation models used in determining the fair value of the financial instruments: We used our own valuation specialist to assist us in critically assessing the key inputs which require significant estimation and judgement in their selection and can have a significant impact on the derived fair value, specifically the time to the conversion event which is relevant where there are conversion options, the probability weighting, the discount rate and the volatility assumptions.
These key inputs were assessed for reasonableness by reference to external data or internal information such as available market information: Page 103 of 165 030 c112021 5.5. indd 103 21 04 2016 13:27 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Allied Minds plc only continued We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures were consistent with the conclusions reached in relation to both the classification of the financial instruments and in relation to the key assumptions related to the valuations and whether the Groups disclosures adequately highlight the uncertainty inherent in the valuations.
Capitalisation of development costs $0.2 million Risk vs 2014 Refer to page 100 Audit Committee Report, pages 116 to 117 accounting policy and pages 134 to 135 financial disclosures The risk The Group incurs significant research and development costs.
Due to the early stage of development of most of the Groups subsidiaries, management has limited history on which to base its assessment of both technical feasibility and commercial viability in order to ascertain whether the development costs have met the criteria for capitalisation.
There is therefore a risk that development costs which have met the requirements of the relevant accounting standards have not been capitalised, and this is therefore one of the key judgemental areas of our audit.
Our response In this area our audit procedures included, Critically assessing on a product by product basis the groups assessment of whether technical and commercial feasibility had been achieved.
The assessment of technical viability included considering whether successful product testing had been performed and whether regulatory approval had been achieved.
In relation to commercial viability we challenged the assumptions made as to whether the current market proposition, sales recorded or orders received in relation to specific products were indicative of commercial feasibility, using our knowledge of each subsidiary and of the industry in which it operates.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures and related judgements in relation to the capitalisation of development costs.
In our audit report for the year ended 31 December 2014 we included Share Based Payments accounting and disclosures as one of the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit.
We continue to perform procedure over this risk, however, given that there were no new plans introduced in the year and also that the basis and mechanics of the calculation were reviewed and concluded on in the prior year with no issues noted, we have not assessed this as one of the risk that had the greatest effect on our audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at $1m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of total expenses being cost of revenue, selling and general administrative expenses and research and development expenses of which it represents 1.0%, which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for the members of the company in assessing the financial performance of the Group, since the Groups activities are currently principally in relation to expenditure on developing forms of intellectual property which can be exploited commercially to generate income and growth in the future.
We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of $50,000, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Page 104 of 165 030 c112021 5.5. indd 104 21 04 2016 13:27 Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Allied Minds plc only continued The Group consists of two reporting components, one containing all the US subsidiary companies and the second containing the UK parent Company.
We subjected both to audits for group reporting purposes.
All of the US subsidiaries are centrally administered and therefore the audit of the component containing these is performed by the US component auditors as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information.
The parent Company component audit was performed by the Group audit team.
Both component audits were performed to a component materiality of $0.9 million approved by the Group audit team.
These audits covered 100% of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax, and total Group assets.
The UK Group audit team issued detailed audit instructions to the component auditor.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered by the audit which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the group audit team.
The Group audit team maintained close communication with the component audit team throughout the engagement including but not limited to discussions and meetings in relation to risks identified, the audit approach to be adopted, the results of procedures performed and significant findings and visited the site at which the components are located.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 65 to 66 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors Viability Statement on page 54, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the two years to 31 December 2017: or the disclosures in Note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Page 105 of 165 030 c112021 5.5. indd 105 21 04 2016 13:27 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Allied Minds plc only continued In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statements, set out on page 67 and 54, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 57 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 55, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Charles le Strange Meakin Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5GL 25 April 2016 Page 106 of 165 030 c112021 5.5. indd 106 21 04 2016 13:27
