Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2015 Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit For calculations performed on the system, the rates used for calculations are input to the system from the table by a member Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified of the legal team and approved by authorised members in the We have audited the financial statements of Ashmore Group plc finance and distribution teams.
We tested the reviewing controls Group for the year ended 30 June 2015 set out on pages 73 to 118. around the change of the rebate rates from the table to the system In our opinion: on a sample basis over the period.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Our response in terms of calculation complexity: of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at For calculations performed outside the new system, we performed 30 June 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: recalculations for the rebates on a sample basis.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in For calculations performed on the system, we performed accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as testing over user access and authorisation controls and testing adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : of changes through inspection of approval documentation and the parent company financial statements have been properly system configurations records.
We also performed testing of prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the interface between the rebate calculation system and the thirdas applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies party service provider who provides the assets under management Act 2006: and data for the purpose of rebate calculations as well as the system the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generated reports through retrieving system data and records to the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards to ascertain the completeness and accuracy of the interface process the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our findings our testing did not identify any deviations in controls Our assessment of risks of material misstatement that would have required us to amend the nature or scope of our We summarise below the risks of material misstatement that had planned detailed test work.
We found no errors the greatest effect on our audit, our key audit procedures to address in the calculations above the materiality level over which we those risks and our findings from those procedures in order that the are required to report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Groups members as a body may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
Our findings are the results of Classification of seed capital investments 207 million procedures undertaken in the context of and solely for the purpose of Refer to pages 46 to 49 Audit and Risk Committee report, our statutory audit opinion on the financial statements as a whole and pages 83 to 84 accounting policy and note 20 of the financial consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not express statements disclosures.
discrete opinions on separate elements of the financial statements.
The risk the Group invests in funds that are managed by Management fee rebates 40.5 million Group subsidiaries.
If the Group is deemed to have control Refer to pages 46 to 49 Audit and Risk Committee report over the funds invested, they need to be consolidated into the and page 86 accounting policy and note 6 of the financial Groups financial statements.
When determining whether the statements disclosures.
Group controls the underlying funds, the strength of the linkage between the Groups power to influence the funds operations and The risk individual investment management agreements include the variable returns received by the Group is one of the key bespoke complex rebate calculations and these calculations are judgmental areas that our audit is concentrated on, because there subject to periodic alterations which increases the risk of error in is a risk that management could incorrectly assess the strength of the determination of net revenue.
This is one of the key areas that the linkage, leading to an incorrect decision on whether the seed our audit is concentrated on because of the need to keep the data capital investments should be consolidated.
used for these calculations up to date and to ensure that the In our audit report for the year ended 30 June 2014 we calculations are performed in accordance with the relevant included the classification of seed capital investments as HFS agreements.
The Group uses a system to automate the calculation investments as one of the risks of material misstatement that had for a majority of management fee rebates.
the greatest effect on our audit.
We considered this risk to be less Our response in terms of rate accuracy: significant in the current year as the Directors now have well We evaluated controls around ensuring the fee rebate rates used established processes to assess the classification.
are accurate and up to date.
The Directors have a process whereby Our responses we critically assessed the Directors rationale the rebate rates are maintained on a separate table that is reviewed for determining the linkage between the power and the variable and approved by three teams: legal, distribution and finance.
We returns for each seed capital investment.
We assessed against assessed the controls by evaluating the approval process.
For a the accounting standard the framework that the directors designed selection of months, we assessed the operating effectiveness of for identifying combinations of different levels of economic the control by inspecting the approvals.
We also agreed a selection interests in funds and strength of other investors rights to replace of the rebate rates on the table to the original investment the Group entities as the investment manager, that constitute management agreements.
Since the accounting standard does not include preset For calculations performed outside of the system, we agreed levels for these combinations, we assessed the appropriateness the rates used to the table for a selection of calculations, of the Directors threshold combinations by comparing it to the in order to determine that the rates in the table were used industry normal practice.
We agreed the aggregate economic in the calculation.
interest including direct holdings, indirect holdings, management fees and performance fees where relevant held by the Group to 70 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 70 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2015 Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit For calculations performed on the system, the rates used for funds legal documents and independent confirmations from Our responses we assessed the Directors basis for determining fund administrators.
We also assessed the strength of other calculations are input to the system from the table by a member the impact of the TSR condition at the start of the vesting period Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified investors rights by reference to the funds legal documents and for both equity and cash-settled share-based schemes and at the of the legal team and approved by authorised members in the We have audited the financial statements of Ashmore Group plc finance and distribution teams.
We tested the reviewing controls agreeing the number of investors in each fund to the fund end of the period applicable only to the cash-settled scheme by Group for the year ended 30 June 2015 set out on pages 73 to 118.
around the change of the rebate rates from the table to the system critically assessing reports prepared for Directors by a third party In our opinion: on a sample basis over the period.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures on the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state classification of seed capital investment reflect the Groups Our response in terms of calculation complexity: We assessed the competency of the third-party remuneration of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at involvement in each fund.
For the cash-settled scheme, we also evaluated those For calculations performed outside the new system, we performed 30 June 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: assessments in the light of the movement in the share price Our findings we found that the Groups judgments made recalculations for the rebates on a sample basis.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in from the start of the relevant vesting period to the current year in determining these classifications were balanced, and that For calculations performed on the system, we performed accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as end and the total shareholder returns of the peer group over the the disclosures on the basis of classification judgments are testing over user access and authorisation controls and testing adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : same period.
We found no errors in the holdings above the of changes through inspection of approval documentation and the parent company financial statements have been properly materiality level over which we are required to report to the We also assessed whether the disclosure in relation to the system configurations records.
We also performed testing of prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Audit and Risk Committee.
schemes is sufficient, in particular around the impact of the the interface between the rebate calculation system and the thirdas applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies TSR condition on the shares vested for Executive Directors.
party service provider who provides the assets under management Act 2006: and Intangible assets 14.1 million Our findings we had no concerns with the competence data for the purpose of rebate calculations as well as the system Refer to pages 46 to 49 Audit and Risk Committee report, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generated reports through retrieving system data and records to or instruction of the third-party consultant.
We found the page 83 accounting policy and note 15 of the financial the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards to ascertain the completeness and accuracy of the interface process resulting estimates to be balanced and note 10 disclosures statements disclosures.
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our findings our testing did not identify any deviations in controls The risk intangible assets consist of management contracts Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Our application of materiality and an overview of the that would have required us to amend the nature or scope of our acquired with Ashmore Equities Investment Management US, We summarise below the risks of material misstatement that had scope of our audit planned detailed test work.
They are reviewed for impairment using a value in use the greatest effect on our audit, our key audit procedures to address The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was in the calculations above the materiality level over which we model, the outcome of which could vary significantly if different those risks and our findings from those procedures in order that the set at 8.9 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of are required to report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
There are a number of assumptions Groups members as a body may better understand the process by Group profit before taxation of which it represents 5%.
used to determine the value in use, including the operating margin, which we arrived at our audit opinion.
Our findings are the results of Classification of seed capital investments 207 million the net management fee margin, the net subscription rate, the We report to the Audit and Risk Committee any corrected or procedures undertaken in the context of and solely for the purpose of Refer to pages 46 to 49 Audit and Risk Committee report, investment performance, the tax rate and the discount rate.
The uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.4 million, in our statutory audit opinion on the financial statements as a whole and pages 83 to 84 accounting policy and note 20 of the financial first two assumptions are the key judgmental areas that our audit is addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not express statements disclosures.
concentrated on because the value of the intangible assets is on qualitative grounds.
sensitive to these two assumptions.
The risk the Group invests in funds that are managed by Of the Groups 38 reporting components, we subjected 4 to audits Our responses our audit procedures included comparison of Management fee rebates 40.5 million Group subsidiaries.
If the Group is deemed to have control for group reporting purposes.
These audits covered 98% of total the net subscription rates to the actual results in the year ended Refer to pages 46 to 49 Audit and Risk Committee report over the funds invested, they need to be consolidated into the Group revenue: 94% of Group profit before taxation: and 95% of 30 June 2015.
We also compared the investment performance and page 86 accounting policy and note 6 of the financial Groups financial statements.
When determining whether the total Group assets.
assumption used to the actual performance in the year ended statements disclosures.
Group controls the underlying funds, the strength of the linkage 30 June 2015 as well as the market based performance indices.
For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an between the Groups power to influence the funds operations and The risk individual investment management agreements include We performed break-even analysis on the assumptions to assess aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there the variable returns received by the Group is one of the key bespoke complex rebate calculations and these calculations are the impact if the assumptions are proved to be incorrect.
We also were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
judgmental areas that our audit is concentrated on, because there subject to periodic alterations which increases the risk of error in performed stress testing on these key assumptions to assess the is a risk that management could incorrectly assess the strength of The Group audit team set the component materialities which ranged the determination of net revenue.
This is one of the key areas that reasonableness of these assumptions.
the linkage, leading to an incorrect decision on whether the seed from 0.9 million to 6.1 million having regard to the mix of size and our audit is concentrated on because of the need to keep the data capital investments should be consolidated.
We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on the used for these calculations up to date and to ensure that the of impairment testing and whether disclosures about the sensitivity In our audit report for the year ended 30 June 2014 we components was performed by the Group audit team.
calculations are performed in accordance with the relevant of the outcome of impairment assessment to changes in key included the classification of seed capital investments as HFS agreements.
The Group uses a system to automate the calculation assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the key Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the investments as one of the risks of material misstatement that had for a majority of management fee rebates.
assumptions and the requirements of accounting standards.
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified the greatest effect on our audit.
We considered this risk to be less Our response in terms of rate accuracy: significant in the current year as the Directors now have well Our findings we found the resulting estimates to be balanced In our opinion: We evaluated controls around ensuring the fee rebate rates used established processes to assess the classification.
and that note 15 proportionately discloses the sensitivity.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are accurate and up to date.
The Directors have a process whereby Our responses we critically assessed the Directors rationale has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the rebate rates are maintained on a separate table that is reviewed Share-based payments 24.5 million for determining the linkage between the power and the variable Act 2006: and and approved by three teams: legal, distribution and finance.
We Refer to pages 46 to 49 Audit and Risk Committee report, pages 52 returns for each seed capital investment.
For a the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors to 65 Directors Remuneration Report, page 86 accounting policy the accounting standard the framework that the directors designed selection of months, we assessed the operating effectiveness of Report for the financial year for which the financial statements and note 10 of the financial statements disclosures.
for identifying combinations of different levels of economic are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
the control by inspecting the approvals.
We also agreed a selection interests in funds and strength of other investors rights to replace The risk the Group issues share awards to employees under of the rebate rates on the table to the original investment the Group entities as the investment manager, that constitute a number of share-based compensation plans.
The number We have nothing to report in respect of the matters management agreements.
Since the accounting standard does not include preset of shares that vest for Executive Directors are subject to the on which we are required to report by exception For calculations performed outside of the system, we agreed levels for these combinations, we assessed the appropriateness relative total shareholder return TSR condition over the vesting Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based the rates used to the table for a selection of calculations, of the Directors threshold combinations by comparing it to the period.
This is one of the key judgmental areas that our audit on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified in order to determine that the rates in the table were used industry normal practice.
We agreed the aggregate economic is concentrated on because of the judgments involved in other information in the annual report that contains a material in the calculation.
interest including direct holdings, indirect holdings, management determining the likelihood of the TSR condition being met.
inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, fees and performance fees where relevant held by the Group to a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
70 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only continued Year ended 30 June 2015 In particular, we are required to report to you if: Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities we have identified material inconsistencies between the set out on page 51, the Directors are responsible for the preparation knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a statement that they consider that the annual report and true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website understandable and provides the information necessary for at www.
This report is made solely shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business to the companys members as a body and is subject to important model and strategy: or explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published the section of the annual report describing the work of the on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014b, which Group Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Jonathan Mills Senior Statutory Auditor parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor not been received from branches not visited by us: or Chartered Accountants the parent company financial statements and the part of 15 Canada Square the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not London in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or E14 5GL certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by 7 September 2015 law are not made: or www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 69, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 43 to 50 relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
72 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 72 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015
