Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Aviva plcs Consolidated financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements : Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups and the parent companys profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report comprise: The Consolidated and Company statements of financial position as at 31 December 2015: The Consolidated and Company income statements and statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended: The Reconciliation of Group operating profit to profit for the year then ended: The Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows for the year then ended: The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements: and The notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the Accounting policies to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Our audit approach Context This years audit continued to focus on the valuation of insurance contract liabilities and the valuation of hard to value investments.
Developments in the year included a focus on the valuation of finite lived intangible assets and goodwill related to the acquisition of Friends Life Group Limited.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 114 million which represents 5% of Operating profit before tax and after the deduction of integration and restructuring costs.
Based on the outputs of a risk assessment, along with our understanding of the Aviva structure, we performed full scope audits over the following markets: UK Life including Friends Life, UK General Insurance, Canada, and France Life.
We identified a further six markets where specific account balances are considered to be significant in size in relation to the Group, and scoped our audit to include detailed testing of those account balances.
Further audit procedures were performed by the Group engagement team, including over the head office operations and the consolidation process, to ensure that sufficient coverage was obtained.
Our risk assessment analysis identified the following as areas of focus: - Valuation of life insurance contract liabilities.
- Valuation of non-life insurance contract liabilities.
- Valuation of hard to value investments.
- Valuation of finite lived intangible assets and goodwill relating to the Friends Life Group Limited acquisition.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK and Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
126 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 126 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 IFRS Financial statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of life insurance contract liabilities Refer to page 91 Audit Committee Report, page 138 Accounting policies and page 205 notes The Directors valuation of the provisions for the settlement of The work to address the valuation of the UK Life including future claims involves complex and subjective judgements Friends Life insurance contract liabilities included the about future events, both internal and external to the following procedures: business, for which small changes in assumptions can result in We tested the underlying company data to source material impacts to the valuation of these liabilities.
Using our actuarial specialist team members, we applied our industry knowledge and experience and we compared the methodology, models and assumptions used against recognised actuarial practices.
We performed reasonableness checks on the modelled results of managements analysis of change, including testing over the controls improvements implemented in Friends Life in the second half of the year to respond to limitations in the analysis.
We tested the key judgements and controls over the preparation of the manually calculated components of the liability.
We focused on the consistency in treatment and methodology period-on-period, across life insurance funds and with reference to recognised actuarial practice.
Further testing was also conducted on the Annuitant Mortality, Credit Default and Expense assumptions as set out below.
We used the results of an independent PwC annual benchmarking survey of assumptions which allowed us to further challenge the assumption setting process by comparing certain assumptions used relative to the Groups industry peers.
Based on the work performed, we considered the assumptions used to be in line with recognised market practices and, where appropriate, industry peers.
As part of our consideration of the entire set of assumptions we focused particularly on the following three within the UK Life market including Friends Life given their significance to the Groups result and the level of judgement involved.
Annuitant Mortality Assumptions In addition to the procedures above, in respect of the Annuitant mortality assumptions require a high degree of annuitant mortality assumptions: judgement due to the number of factors which may influence We understood and tested the governance process in place mortality experience.
The differing factors which affect the to determine the annuitant mortality methodology and assumptions are underlying mortality experience in the assumptions.
portfolio, industry and management views on the future rate We tested the methodology and the model for rate of of mortality improvements and external factors arising from improvements used by management to derive the developments in the annuity market.
assumptions with reference to relevant rules and actuarial guidance and by applying our industry knowledge and experience.
We assessed the results of the experience investigations carried out by UK Life including Friends Life management for the annuity business to determine whether they provided support for the assumptions used by management.
We compared the mortality assumptions selected by UK Life including Friends Life against those used by their peers.
Based on the work performed and the evidence obtained, we considered the assumptions used for annuitant mortality to be reasonable.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 127 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 127 Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Credit Default Assumptions In respect of the credit default assumptions: UK Life including Friends Life holds significant commercial We understood and tested the governance process in place mortgage, corporate bond and other loan asset portfolios to to determine the credit default risk methodology and support the annuity liabilities.
In line with relevant rules, the assumptions.
current yield on these assets less a prudent deduction for We tested the methodology and credit risk pricing models credit default and reinvestment risk is used to discount the used for commercial mortgages by management to derive annuity liabilities.
Additional supplementary liabilities are held the assumptions with reference to relevant rules and particularly in respect of the use of higher risk assets.
These actuarial guidance, and by applying our industry knowledge liabilities are to cover inter alia the risk of increased short-term and experience.
default rates and in the event of default, the availability of We validated assumptions used by management against assets yielding similar returns.
The assumptions used require market observable data and our experience of market significant judgement.
Based on the work performed, we considered the allowance for credit default risk to be appropriate.
Expense Assumptions In respect of the expense assumptions: Future maintenance expenses and expense inflation We understood and tested the governance process in place assumptions are used in the measurement of insurance and to determine the maintenance expense and expense participating investment contract liabilities and any associated inflation assumptions.
The assumptions used require significant We tested the methodology used by management to derive judgement.
the assumptions with reference to relevant rules and actuarial guidance and by applying our industry knowledge and experience.
We validated assumptions used by management against past experience, market observable data and our experience of market practices.
Based on the work performed, we considered the allowance for expense risk to be appropriate.
Valuation of non-life insurance contract liabilities Refer to page 91 Audit Committee Report, page 139 Accounting policies and page 205 notes The estimation of non-life insurance contract liabilities involves In the UK General Insurance and Canada markets, we assessed the Directors calculation of the non-life insurance liabilities by a significant degree of judgement.
The liabilities are based on the best-estimate ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not performing the following procedures: settled at a given date, whether reported or not, together with We tested the underlying company data to source the related claims handling costs.
including stochastic projections, may be used to determine Using our actuarial specialist team members, we applied our these provisions.
Underlying these methods are a number of industry knowledge and experience and we compared the explicit or implicit assumptions relating to the expected methodology, models and assumptions used against settlement amount and settlement patterns of claims.
Regulators across the globe continue to focus on reserving Understood and tested the governance process in place to adequacy for non-life insurers, particularly in the current determine the insurance contract liabilities, including testing market.
the associated financial reporting control framework.
Given their size in relation to the consolidated Group and Our actuarial specialist team members performed the complexity of the judgements involved our work focused independent re-projections on selected classes of business, on the liabilities in the UK General Insurance and Canada particularly focusing on the largest and most uncertain markets.
For these classes we compared our re-projected claims reserves to those booked by management, and sought to understand any significant differences.
For the remaining classes we evaluated the methodology and assumptions, or performed a diagnostic check to identify and follow up any anomalies.
Based on the work performed, we considered the methodology and assumptions used by management to be appropriate.
128 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 128 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 IFRS Financial statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of hard to value investments Refer to page 183 notes.
Given the ongoing market volatility and macroeconomic For these hard to value investments we assessed both the uncertainty, investment valuation continues to be an area of methodology and assumptions used by management in the inherent risk.
The risk is not uniform for all investment types calculation of the year end values as well as testing the and is greatest for the following, where the investments are governance controls that the Directors have in place to hard to value because quoted prices are not readily available: monitor these processes.
The testing included performing the following procedures: Commercial mortgage loans UK Life Equity release and UK securitised mortgage loans UK Life Evaluated the methodology and assumptions in particular, Structured bond-type investments France Life yield curves, discounted cash flows, property growth rates Collateralised loan obligations and non-recourse loans UK and liquidity premium used within the valuation models.
Life Compared the assumptions used against appropriate Private placements UK Life benchmarks and investigated significant differences.
Swaps for equity release and related Special Purpose Tested the operation of data integrity and change Vehicles UK Life management controls for the models.
Used our valuation experts to perform independent valuations, where applicable.
Based on the work performed, we considered the assumptions used by management to be appropriate.
Valuation of finite intangible assets and goodwill in relation to the Friends Life Group Limited Acquisition Refer to page 91 Audit Committee Report, page 140 Accounting policies and page 154 notes.
On acquisition of Friends Life Group Limited, Aviva recognised For the finite lived intangible assets and goodwill we the Acquired Value of In Force Business AVIF 4,790 million performed the following procedures: in respect of the insurance and investment contract portfolios.
Tested the acquisition balance sheet prepared by In addition, further intangible assets were recognised management in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3 consisting of distributor and customer relationships 484 Business Combinations to: million and goodwill 671 million.
- Check the recording at fair value of the Friends Life These intangible assets represent an area of significant Group Limited assets and liabilities at the date of judgement and therefore we performed work to assess the acquisition: valuation of these assets, as well as any amortisation or - Check the pre-existing intangible assets of Friends Life impairments charged since the acquisition date.
Group Limited were written off on acquisition: - Agree the alignment of accounting policies of Friends Life Group Limited with Aviva: and - Recalculate the value of goodwill recognised in the acquisition balance sheet.
Challenged managements judgements, through the engagement of PwC valuation experts to: - Test the completeness of identification of potential intangible assets recognised and valued: - Test the valuation methodologies and assumptions used to value each intangible asset on acquisition.
Examined the amortisation and impairment methodology to check it is in accordance with IFRS requirements Tested managements application of the methodology at year end by re-performing the amortisation and impairment calculation.
Based on our work and the evidence obtained, we found that the recognition of goodwill, AVIF and other intangible assets and managements basis for the valuations as at 31 December were appropriate.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Using the outputs of a risk assessment, along with our understanding of the Aviva structure, we scoped our audit based on the significance of the results and financial position of individual markets relative to the Group result and financial position.
In doing so, we also considered qualitative factors and checked that we obtained sufficient coverage across all financial statement line items in the Consolidated financial statements.
This scope provided us with audit coverage in excess of 86% for Operating profit before tax and, after the deduction of integration and restructuring costs, 79% for Gross Written Premiums and 88% for Total Assets.
The Groups primary reporting format is along market reporting lines with supplementary information being given by business activity.
The operating segments of the Group are United Kingdom & Ireland Life and General Insurance, France, Poland, Italy, Spain and Other, Canada, Asia, Aviva Investors and Other Group Activities.
The results of the Friends Life Group Limited businesses from the date of acquisition, have been included in the UK & Ireland Life Friends Life UK, Asia Friends Provident and Other Group activities segments.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 129 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 129 Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at each of the markets by us, as the Group audit team, or auditors of the markets within PwC UK or from other PwC network firms operating under our instructions.
Work was performed by local engagement teams in the following markets: UK Life, Friends Life, UK General Insurance, Canada, France Life, Aviva Investors UK, Spain, Italy, Poland, Singapore Life and Friends Provident International.
Where the work was performed by auditors of the markets, we determined the level of involvement we needed as the Group audit team to have in the audit work at those markets to be able to conclude whether sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
The Group audit team kept in regular communication with reporting market audit teams including visits to teams based in Aviva operating locations at Bristol, York and Norwich in the United Kingdom, France, Canada, Italy, Spain, Poland and Singapore, regular phone calls, discussions and written instructions, where appropriate.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 114 million 2014: 102 million.
How we determined it 5% of Operating profit before tax and after the deduction of integration and restructuring costs.
Rationale for benchmark applied In determining our materiality, we considered financial metrics which we believed to be relevant, and concluded, consistent with last year, that operating profit before tax and after the deduction of integration and restructuring costs was the most relevant benchmark.
Operating profit presents a longer-term assessment of the performance of the entity which is more in line with the operations and time horizons of an insurer where insurance contracts and customer relationships span over multiple years.
We believe that it is appropriate to deduct integration and restructuring costs as Aviva incur a base level of restructuring costs, even outside times of significant restructuring.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 5 million 2014: 5 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on pages 99 to 100, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
130 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 130 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 IFRS Financial statements Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: - materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or - apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or - otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report.
The statement given by the Directors on page 100, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 91, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: The Directors confirmation on page 82 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 100 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 131 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 131 Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 100, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and The overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Marcus Hine Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 9 March 2016 a The maintenance and integrity of the Aviva plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
132 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 132 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015
