The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 October 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. Who we are reporting to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
What we have audited The Bankers Investment Trust PLCs financial statements for the year ended 31 October 2015 comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Changes in Equity, the Statement of Financial Position, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Overview of our audit approach Overall materiality: 7,126,000, which represents 1% of the Companys net assets and Key audit risks were identified as investments and investment income.
Our assessment of risk In arriving at our opinions set out in this report, we highlight the following risks that, in our judgement, had the greatest effect on our audit: Audit risk How we responded to the risk Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: Investments The Companys business is investing in a focused and internationally obtaining an understanding of managements processes to diversified portfolio of securities to provide a high and rising level of recognise and measure investments including ownership of those dividends as well as capital appreciation over the long term.
Accordingly, investments the investment portfolio is a significant, material item in the financial obtaining a confirmation of investments held at the year end statements.
We therefore identified the recognition, existence and directly from the independent custodian measurement of the investment portfolio as a risk that requires particular audit attention.
testing the reconciliation of the custodian records to the records maintained by the Companys administrator testing a selection of investment additions and disposals shown in the Companys records to supporting documentation agreeing the valuation of quoted investments to an independent source of market prices.
The Companys accounting policy on valuation of quoted investments is shown in note 1 and related disclosures are included in note 11.
The Audit Committee identified valuation and ownership of Companys investments as a significant issue in its report on page 38, where the Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this issue.
40 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC continued Audit risk How we responded to the risk Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: Investment income Investment income is the Companys major source of revenue and is a assessing whether the Companys accounting policy for revenue significant, material item in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
recognition is in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Accordingly, we identified the recognition of revenue from investments Practice: Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies as a risk that requires particular audit attention.
and Venture Capital Trusts obtaining an understanding of managements processes to recognise revenue in accordance with the stated accounting policy testing whether a sample of revenue transactions has been recognised in accordance with the policy and for a sample of investments held in the period, confirming that income that should have been received has been received and recorded, and assessing whether any of the dividends receivable should have been treated as capital receipts.
The Companys accounting policy on recognition of revenue is shown in note 1 and related disclosures are included in note 3.
The Audit Committee identified recognition of income as a significant issue in its report on page 38, where the Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this issue.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality in determining the nature, timing and extent of our audit work and in evaluating the results of that work.
We determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole to be 7,126,000 which is 1% of the Companys net assets.
This benchmark is considered the most appropriate because net assets, which is primarily composed of the Companys investment portfolio, is considered to be the key driver of the Companys total return performance.
Materiality for the current year is higher than the level that we determined for the year ended 31 October 2014 to reflect the increase in net assets.
We use a different level of materiality, performance materially, to drive the extent of our testing and this was set at 5% of total investment income.
We also determine a lower level of specific materiality for certain areas such as the revenue column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income, directors remuneration and related party transactions.
We determined the threshold at which we will communicate misstatements to the Audit Committee to be 356,300.
In addition we will communicate misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
Overview of the scope of our audit A description of the generic scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those Ethical Standards.
Our audit approach was based on a thorough understanding of the Companys business and is risk-based.
The day-to-day management of the Companys investment portfolio, the custody of its investments and the maintenance of the Companys accounting records is outsourced to third-party service providers.
Accordingly, our audit work is focused on obtaining an understanding of, and evaluating, internal controls at the Company and relevant third-party service providers, and inspecting records and documents held by the Company and third-party service providers.
This included areview of reports on the description, design and operating effectiveness of internal controls at relevant third-party service providers.
We undertook substantive testing on significant transactions, balances and disclosures, the extent of which was based on various factors such as our overall assessment of the control environment, the design effectiveness of controls over individual systems and the management of specific risks.
Other reporting required by regulations Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
41 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: the Directors statements in relation to going concern and longer term viability set out on page 47 and 26 respectively: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: or the annual report does not appropriately disclose those matters that were communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We have nothing to report in respect of any of the above matters.
We also confirm that we do not have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they have considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit What the directors are responsible for: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 32, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
What we are responsible for: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Julian Bartlett Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants London 18 January 2016 42
