com 108 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Beazley plc Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Beazley plc Beazley for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise the consolidated statement of profit or loss, the consolidated and parent company statements of comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent company statements of financial position, the consolidated and parent company statements of cash flows, the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity and the related notes.
Our audit was conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group and company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the group and company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The risks of material misstatement detailed in this section are those risks that we have deemed, in our professional judgment, to have had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit procedures relating to these risks were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of these risks, and we do not express an opinion on these individual risks.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows : Valuation of insurance liabilities $4,586.7m gross, $3,487.0m net: 2014: $4,547.4m gross, $3,494.2m net Refer to page 77 audit committee report, pages 118 to 127 accounting policy and pages 112 to 176 financial disclosures.
The risk Our procedures to address this risk 86% of the groups liabilities relate to Evaluation and testing of key controls around the actuarial reserving process and insurance liabilities 2014: 89%.
The the data used to determine the quantum of both gross and net insurance valuation of insurance liabilities remains the liabilities.
This included controls over the extraction of data from the underlying most significant inherent risk in our audit.
systems and considerations of matters raised in reserving and underwriting Management apply judgement to determine committee meetings: reserves which include a prudential margin use of our own actuarial specialists to support us in our evaluation of insurance above the actuarial best estimate to account liabilities and in particular the estimate for insurance losses incurred but not for estimation uncertainty.
The most critical reported, as well as the evaluation of managements methodology against estimate included in insurance liabilities is market practice based on our market knowledge and industry data, where the estimate for insurance losses incurred available, and our conclusions over whether the amount calculated by the group but not reported, for which the estimate lies within an acceptable range: gross of reinsurance is $2,588.4m in 2015, we increased our focus on US specialty lines in consideration of the 31 December 2014: $2,540.2m and the continued growth and relative immaturity of parts of this line of business: estimate net of reinsurance is $1,930.3m use of our own actuarial specialists to help us with re-projections on a gross and 31 December 2014: $1,874.5m at net basis based on quarter 3 data then rolled forward for quarter 4 using our 31 December 2015.
The level of subjectivity own models for selected significant classes of business, including marine, in the estimated impact of uncertain or property and specialty including a disaggregated analysis on US specialty lines.
unknown future events: the diversity of risks We also considered the consistency of the basis for the margin applied to the written by Beazley, and therefore the actuarial estimate year-on-year: granular level of reserving that occurs at discussion and consideration of the reserving assumptions and methodology class of business level: the nature of the applied for prudence and consistency, and benchmarking to identify any outliers specialist classes of business that Beazley against our experience of similar accounts in the market place.
Any outliers were underwrites: and particular uncertainty then followed up through discussions with the Chief Actuary, the Finance Director as regards the exposure to extreme losses and the Audit and Risk Committee: in the catastrophe book, reserving for new consideration of the quality of historic reserving exercises by tracking the products and continued growth within outcome of prior years liabilities provisions by reference to subsequent out-turn: US specialty lines all serve to increase the and level of judgement required and subjectivity in light of our work above we also considered the adequacy of the judgements inherent in the estimation of insurance and uncertainties being made by the directors in the insurance risk note 2. liabilities.
These judgements and uncertainties are significant to the earnings of the group.
com Annual report 2015 109 Existence and valuation of investments financial assets at fair value $3,842.2m: 2014: $4,077.4m Refer to page 77 audit committee report, pages 118 to 127 accounting policy and pages 112 to 176 financial disclosures.
The risk Our procedures to address this risk The group holds and manages a significant Understood, assessed and tested the groups controls for the investment investment portfolio to meet its obligations valuation process, monitoring performance of investments and the data integrity under insurance contracts and for of the investment records: shareholder investment purposes.
The size assessment of the identification and subsequent resolution of differences in of the portfolio: the exposure to hedge funds: custodian reconciliations: and the strategy employed to increase the receipt of external confirmations from custodians of the investment portfolio allocation of assets with a higher credit risk and agreement to company records: to improve investment return all contribute performance and evaluation of independent pricing and credit rating checks to making the existence and valuation of by our valuation specialists: investments key areas of focus within our assessment of the valuation methodology for the portfolio of assets with audit.
The use and oversight of outsourced a higher credit risk and testing of the year end valuations: service providers remains an element of the inspection of the hedge fund managers valuation reports and consideration groups approach to investment of the historical accuracy of these pricing estimates by reference to realized management.
Continuing the trend from amounts.
We discussed any potential valuation issues with management: 2015, Beazley continued to expand its assessment of the management monitoring of the outsourced service providers: portfolio of assets with a higher credit risk and which includes investments subject to assessment of the allocation of assets into the fair value hierarchy as disclosed greater complexity of valuation including in note 16, placing specific emphasis on the classification of hedge funds and private equity and structured credit positions.
higher credit risk assets where a greater degree of judgment is required.
Valuation of other assets reinsurance assets $1,099.7m, 2014: $1,053.2m, insurance receivables $732.7m, 2014: $587.0m, and premium estimates $2,080.9m, 2014: $2,021.8m Refer to page 77 audit committee report, pages 118 to 127 accounting policy and pages 112 to 176 financial disclosures.
The risk Our procedures to address this risk The risks in these areas include the Reinsurance assets and insurance receivables valuation of reinsurance assets and Evaluation and testing of key controls over the processes designed to record insurance receivables, being the and monitor insurance and reinsurance debtors: recoverability of insurance and reinsurance inspection of managements aged analysis for recoveries as at 31 December 2015: debtors notes 18, 19 and 24 and the understanding the terms of the reinsurance programmes in place and conducting appropriateness of premium estimates note relevant substantive procedures and substantive analytical procedures to assess 3.
All of these balances require judgement the reasonableness of the reinsurance assets relative to gross provisions: to be applied by the group to the valuation considering credit ratings for reinsurers: and, in terms of processing, require manual benchmarking with other market participants where possible e. g. to consider the adjustments to be made, which we consider bad debt provision percentages applied to counterparties and against past on a substantive basis.
experience: and testing of the manual adjustments on a sample basis by tracing back to supporting documentation.
Premium estimates Evaluation of controls around premium estimates across all lines of business: assessment of the internal peer review process in place at Beazley to challenge the premium estimates established and the timeliness of updates: testing by our actuarial specialists in assessing these amounts where the nature or calculation of the amounts is complex and or judgmental: critical assessment of the estimates involved in recording business written by binders to ensure the methodology was appropriate in the context of the timing of business written throughout the year: and testing of the manual adjustments on a sample basis by tracing back to supporting documentation.
For all of the risk areas set out above, we have assessed whether the groups disclosures about the sensitivities of the relevant financial statement items to changes in the respective key assumptions appropriately reflect the associated risks and comply with the requirements of the relevant accounting standards.
com 110 Independent auditors report continued Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at $20m 31 December 2014: $20m.
This has been calculated with reference to a benchmark of group gross written premiums of which it represents 1% which we have determined, in our professional judgment, to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial performance of the group.
In addition, we applied materiality of $10m 31 December 2014: $10m for balances other than the insurance and reinsurance technical balances, for which we believe misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could be reasonably expected to influence the companys members assessment of the financial performance of the group.
We report to the audit and risk committee all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with an individual value in excess of $1m $0.5m for non-technical 31 December 2014: $1m $0.5m for non-technical in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audit work to support this opinion is directed by the engagement partner, who signs this report on behalf of the firm, and in the light of the extent of the groups activities in London, is undertaken primarily by an audit team in London.
Of the groups two reporting components, we subjected Beazley Furlonge Limited and the syndicates to an audit for group reporting purposes and Beazley Insurance Company Incorporated to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter was not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed and reported to the group and component auditor.
The group audit team instructed the audit team in London as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The group audit team also determined the components materiality.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we need to have in the audit work in order to conclude whether sufficient audit evidence has been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
This involvement included the group team visiting the component audit team in London in order to assess the audit risk and strategy and work undertaken.
Telephone conferences and on site meetings were also held with the component auditors.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the group audit team were discussed in more detail and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditors.
The audit work performed by the group and component auditors covered 99.7% of group revenue, 99.9% of profit before tax and 96.8% of group total assets.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed under the terms of our engagement is unmodified In addition to our audit of the financial statements, the directors have engaged us to audit the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited, which they have decided to prepare as if the company were required to comply with the requirements of Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 SI 2008 No.
410 made under the UK Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion the directors remuneration report which we were engaged to audit has been properly prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as if those requirements were to apply to the company.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors statement of viability on pages 55 to 57 concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the groups continuing in operation over the 3 years to 2018: or the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland require that we report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the statement of corporate governance does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit and risk committee.
com Annual report 2015 111 Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company: returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
The Listing Rules require us to review: the directors statement, set out on page 107, in relation to going concern and long term viability on page 55: and the part of the corporate governance statement on page 73 relating to the parent companys compliance with the provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Responsibilities of our report, responsibilities and restriction on use As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 107, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors.
An audit undertaken in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Whilst an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland is designed to provide reasonable assurance of identifying material misstatements or omissions it is not guaranteed to do so.
Rather the auditor plans the audit to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements does not exceed materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
This testing requires us to conduct significant audit work on a broad range of assets, liabilities, income and expense as well as devoting significant time of the most experienced members of the audit team, in particular the engagement partner responsible for the audit, to subjective areas of the accounting and reporting.
Our report is made solely to the parent companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the parent companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the parent company and the parent companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Hubert Crehan for and on behalf of KPMG Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors 1 Harbourmaster Place International Financial Services Centre Dublin 1 Ireland 3 February 2016 Beazley Annual report 2015 www.
com 112 Financial statements 113 Consolidated statement of profit or loss 114 Statement of comprehensive income 115 S tatement of changes in equity 116 S tatements of financial position 117 S tatements of cash flows 118 Notes to the financial statements 177 Glossary
