Financial statements Independent Auditors Report To the members of BGEO Group PLC Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: BGEO Group PLCs Group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited BGEO Group PLCs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 Separate statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Separate statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Separate statement of cash flows for the year then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 34 to the financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 34 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Monitoring of credit quality and appropriateness of allowance for loan losses Risk of fraud in recognition of healthcare revenue Valuation of land and buildings and investment properties Accounting for complex or one-off transactions IT general and automated controls over financial reporting In executing our audit response to the above risks of material misstatement, we also considered the risk of fraud in relation to management override of controls particularly post close adjustments and significant areas of accounting estimate.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of two components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further four components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for more than 91% of Groups pre-tax profit, revenue and total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality is GEL 18.0 million which represents 5% of pre-tax profit.
128 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Monitoring of credit quality and We performed a walkthrough of the loan loss provision process Based on the results of our appropriateness of allowance for loan losses and assessed the design and operating effectiveness of key audit procedures, we concluded controls.
that the loan loss provision is Balance of GEL 198.9 million, prior year within a reasonable range as at comparative GEL 103.8 million We tested key controls over collective loan loss provisioning, 31 December 2015. which included controls over the process of identifying the loans JSC Bank of Georgia, which is the principal to be included in the collective provisioning and managements subsidiary of BGEO Group PLC, is the largest review of key assumptions.
For each of significant risk group, we credit institution in Georgia.
There is a risk that tested application controls including loss given default, probability the Groups management may be under pressure of default, loan loss allowance and probability of default migration to report strong financial performance in order controls.
to meet the expectations of internal and external stakeholders, particularly in light of lowered We tested key controls over the specific loan loss provision, which economic growth forecasts in Georgia, the addressed aspects such as the classification of borrowers into devaluation of the Georgian Lari against the US their respective risk grades, calculation of days past due, and the Dollar and the acquisition of PrivatBank.
recalculation of the loan loss allowance, including the valuation of collateral.
The allowance for loan losses is calculated using a collective provisioning model or discounted For the specific loan loss provision, we selected loan exposures on cash flow analysis and this involves a high level a sample basis and tested the appropriateness of the specific loan of subjectivity and reliance on the provisioning loss provision as at the balance sheet date, including reviewing models and assumptions therein.
Specifically, the Groups documented credit assessment of the borrowers, for individually impaired loans, management challenging assumptions around future cash flow projections and judgement is involved in the process of assessing the valuation of collateral held.
For the collective loan loss provision, we critically assessed the As a consequence, there is a greater risk of appropriateness of the collective provisioning methodology as misstatement in these balances, either by fraud or well as the key assumptions and data inputs including probability error, including through the potential override of of default rates, cure rates, efficiency factor and average workout controls by management.
time into the model with reference to our understanding of the business, relevant accounting standards and market practices.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 101 : We also recalculated the collective loan loss provision and Accounting policies page 153 : and Notes 4, 10 performed sensitivity analysis to changes in key inputs including and 29 of the Consolidated Financial Statements probability of default rates, efficiency factor, average workout time pages 164, 175 to 177 and 196 to 199 and collateral value to the collective provisioning model.
The risk has increased in the current year as a We inspected a sample of restructured loans and the Groups result of lowered economic growth forecasts in documented assessment to provide assurance that any loans Georgia, the devaluation of Georgian Lari against that have been subject to forbearance have been appropriately the US Dollar and the acquisition of PrivatBank.
provided for, classified and reported.
We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in one component, which covered 89% of the risk amount.
Risk of fraud in recognition of healthcare We performed a walkthrough of the healthcare revenue process and Based on the results of our audit revenue assessed the design and operating effectiveness of key controls.
procedures, we concluded that the healthcare revenue for the Balance of GEL 184.0 million, prior year We increased our standard sample size for transactional testing by year ended 31 December 2015 is comparative GEL 125.7 million at least 1.7 times according to our statistical sampling methodology, materially correct.
to respond to this risk of fraud.
We agreed transactions on a sample Georgia Healthcare Group GHG is one of the basis back to supporting audit evidence, such as receipt of cash and largest healthcare providers in Georgia.
There is a invoices: where appropriate, we also recalculated the fees charged.
risk that the Groups management may be under pressure to report strong financial performance We performed analytical procedures and journal entry testing in order in order to meet the expectations of internal and to identify and test the risk of misstatement arising from management external stakeholders, particularly following the override of controls.
We performed substantive analytical review to listing of Georgia Healthcare Group PLC and in consider unusual trends that could indicate material misstatements, light of lowered economic growth forecasts in and we considered changes in key drivers of healthcare revenue, such Georgia and the devaluation of the Georgian Lari as bed occupancy, number of patients and number of beds.
Further, compensation tied to the performance of the Group may create an We also performed cut-off testing to obtain evidence that revenue is incentive for management to manipulate results.
recognised in the correct period.
As a consequence, there is a greater risk of misstatement in these balances, either by fraud or We performed specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in error, including through the potential override of one component, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
This is a new risk this year.
Our audit approach and assessment of key areas of audit focus changes in response to circumstances affecting the Group.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 101 : Accounting policies page 159 : and Note 24 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 192 Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 129 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report continued To the members of BGEO Group PLC Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Valuation of land and buildings and We performed a walkthrough of the real estate valuation process and Based on the results of investment properties assessed the design effectiveness of key controls.
our audit procedures, we concluded that the valuations Balance of GEL 474.8 million, prior year We engaged our Real Estate specialists to evaluate the of land and buildings and comparative GEL 414.4 million appropriateness of the Groups real estate valuations.
This investment properties are assessment included evaluating the competence and objectivity of the within a reasonable range as at The Group adopted the revaluation model for the external valuers engaged by the Group, challenging the methods and 31 December 2015. measurement of its land and buildings and the fair assumptions used and testing the data provided by the valuers.
value model for investment properties.
In respect of properties which were not subject to individual Real estate valuation is inherently uncertain and valuation by the external valuers, we ascertained managements subject to an estimation process.
Furthermore, the basis for conclusion, challenged managements assumption that Groups real estate properties are located primarily property prices in certain categories and locations had not changed in Georgia, where the secondary market is relatively significantly during the year, and corroborated these by reference to illiquid.
our understanding of the Groups real estate portfolio and market information.
Although the valuations are performed by a combination of internal and external, appropriately We ensured the appropriate recognition of the results of real estate qualified valuers, there remains a risk that individual valuation in accordance with IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment assets might be inappropriately valued.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 101 : We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk Accounting policies pages 155 to 156 : and Notes area in four components, which covered 80% of the risk amount.
4, 11, 12 and 30 of the Consolidated Financial Statements pages 164, 178 to 180 and 205 to 206 The risk has neither increased nor decreased in the current year.
Accounting for complex or one-off We assessed managements processes for identifying and accounting We highlighted to the Audit transactions for complex and one-off transactions.
Committee the need for the Group to continue to improve The Group has experienced significant levels of We reviewed significant complex and one-off transactions, including its internal controls to match growth and change in recent years.
The Group has transactions relating to business combinations and valuation the growth in the business, expanded its investment business over the years as of options and convertible shares.
We critically challenged the particularly in relation to complex part of the Groups strategy to capture compelling assumptions and judgements made by management in determining and one-off transactions.
the appropriate accounting treatment in accordance with applicable IFRSs.
We assessed whether the conclusions reached by Based on the results of our From time to time, the Group has entered into a management were consistent with the underlying agreements and audit procedures, we concluded number of complex and one-off transactions and commercial factors applicable to each of the transactions.
that the complex and one-off agreements, including transactions relating to transactions are materially business combinations and valuation of options Complex and one-off transactions were subject to full scope audit correct as at 31 December 2015 and convertible shares, for which determining the procedures by the Primary audit team.
and for the year then ended.
appropriate accounting treatment is inherently subjective, requires the exercise of a high degree of judgement, is subject to significant levels of estimation uncertainty, or requires the re-assessment of fair values arising from historic transactions on a periodic basis.
We focused on this area due to the complexity of the accounting considerations and the involvement of managements judgement.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 101 IT general and automated controls over We evaluated the design and operating effectiveness of the key IT The results of our audit financial reporting systems that are relevant to financial reporting.
procedures on the IT general and automated controls over The integrity of the Groups financial statements We examined the controls over program development and changes, financial reporting, including is dependent on the integrity of data and reports access to programs and data and IT operations in respect of those IT the results of our testing of produced by the Groups IT systems and the systems, and embedded application controls.
compensating controls and the effectiveness of IT-dependent controls in the procedures performed to cover processes underlying the preparation of the We engaged our IT specialists to perform sufficient audit procedures the additional risks associated financial statements.
There is a risk that IT general to enable us to place reliance on the IT applications and relevant with the ineffective controls and automated controls over financial reporting are controls identified as having a material impact on the financial over logical access, provided us not designed and operating effectively.
Where exceptions were observed in our testing, with sufficient audit evidence to we identified compensating controls and tested those to address the enable us to place reliance on Refer to the Audit Committee Report pages 101 identified risk.
In addition, we performed substantive audit procedures the IT applications and relevant to 102 to cover the additional risks associated with the ineffective controls controls identified as having a over logical access.
material impact on the financial The risk has neither increased nor decreased in the reporting process.
We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in one component, which covered 100% of the risk.
130 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal Audit findings when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to make sure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, we selected six components.
Of the six components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of two components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining four components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within the components that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
Scope Procedures performed by Number of components Full Primary team 2 Specific Primary team 3 Specific Component team 1 Total 6 Details of the specific scope component which was audited by a component team are set out below: Component Location Scope Auditor JSC Medical Corporation EVEX Georgia Specific EY Components subject to a full scope audit account for over 84% 2014: over 89% of the Groups revenue, over 88% 2014: over 84% of the Groups pre-tax profit and over 90% 2014: over 92% of the Groups total assets.
Components subject to a specific scope audit account for over 7% 2014: over 1% of the Groups revenue, over 6% 2014: over 2% of the Groups pre-tax profit and over 6% 2014: over 5% of the Groups total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the components but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
Of the remaining 22 components that together represent 6% of the Groups pre-tax profit, none are individually greater than 5% of the Groups pre-tax profit.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review and testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
profit before tax Revenue Total assets 6% 9% 4% 6% 6% 7% 88% 84% 90% Full scope components Full scope components Full scope components Specic scope components Specic scope components Specic scope components Other procedures Other procedures Other procedures Changes from the prior period In the prior year, we identified one full scope component and one specific scope component which represented 85% and 5%, respectively, of the Groups profit before tax in the prior year.
Full and specific scope components have been re-assessed as the contribution of such components to the Group consolidated financial statements varies each year.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors operating under our instruction.
For the one specific scope component, where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 131 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report continued To the members of BGEO Group PLC The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to make sure that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits the principal components of the Group.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is based in the UK, but since Group management and operations reside in Georgia, the Group audit team operates as an integrated primary team including members from the UK, Georgia and Russia.
The Senior Statutory Auditor visited Georgia four times during the current years audit and there was regular interaction between team members in each jurisdiction.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the Georgian primary team and the component team and any issues arising from their work, as well as meeting with Group and local management.
In addition, we participated in planning and closing meetings and reviewed selected audit working papers.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component team where appropriate during various stages of the audit and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be GEL 18.0 million 2014: GEL 13.8 million, which is 5% 2014: 5% of pre-tax profit.
We consider the basis of our materiality to be one of the principal considerations for shareholders of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
It is linked to the key earnings measures discussed when the Group presents the financial results.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
Our evaluation of materiality requires professional judgement and necessarily takes into account qualitative as well as quantitative considerations implicit in the definition.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and made adjustments based on the final financial performance of the Group.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% 2014: 50% of our planning materiality, namely GEL 9.0 million 2014: GEL 6.9 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage which is the lowest in the range due to misstatements which were identified in the prior year audit.
Our approach is designed to have a reasonable probability of ensuring that the total of uncorrected and undetected misstatements does not exceed our materiality of GEL 18.0 million for the Group financial statements as a whole.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was as follows: BGEO Group PLC GEL 9.0 million JSC Bank of Georgia GEL 7.5 million All specific scope components GEL 2.2 million Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered to be clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of GEL 0.9 million 2014:GEL 0.7 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
132 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report 2015 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 124, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and nonWe have no exceptions to report.
financial information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: We have no exceptions to report.
the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 47, and longer-term viability, set out on page 47: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 133 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report continued To the members of BGEO Group PLC Statement on the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything We have nothing material to add material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: or to draw attention to.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Andrew McIntyre Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 7 April 2016 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the BGEO Group PLC web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
134 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015
