INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED 20 TO THE MEMBERS OF BH MACRO LIMITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of BH Macro Limited Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Master Fund and holding discussions on key audit findings with the auditor of the Master Fund and the examination of Opinion on financial statements the Master Funds coterminous audited financial statements.
We have audited the financial statements of BH Macro Limited We also considered the Companys investment valuation the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015 which policies as disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements for comprise the Audited Statement of Assets and Liabilities, the compliance with accounting principles generally accepted in Audited Statement of Operations, the Audited Statement of the United States of America.
Changes in Net Assets, the Audited Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of been applied in their preparation is applicable law and accounting our audit principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
In Materiality is a term used to describe the acceptable level of our opinion, the financial statements: precision in the financial statements.
Auditing standards describe a misstatement or an omission as material if it could reasonably give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken as at 31 December 2015 and of its net decrease in net assets on the basis of the financial statements.
The auditor has to apply resulting from operations for the year then ended: judgement in identifying whether a misstatement or omission is material and to do so the auditor identifies a monetary amount as are in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
in the United States of America: and comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at $44,800,000.
This has been calculated using a benchmark of the Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Companys net asset value.
The risks of material misstatement detailed in this section of this report are those risks that we have deemed, in our professional We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected judgement, to have had the greatest effect on: the overall audit and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the with a value in excess of $2,240,000, in addition to other audit efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit procedures relating misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted to these risks were designed in the context of our audit of the reporting on qualitative grounds.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of these risks, and Our audit of the Company was undertaken to the materiality we do not express an opinion on these individual risks.
level specified above, which has informed our identification of significant risks of material misstatement and the associated audit In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, procedures performed in those areas detailed above.
The audit the risk of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on was performed at the offices of the administrator.
our audit was as follows: Whilst the audit process is designed to provide reasonable Valuation of Investment in the Master Fund US$1,424,795,000 assurance of identifying material misstatements or omissions it is Refer to page 15 of the Report of the Audit Committee and note not guaranteed to do so.
Rather we plan the audit to determine 3 Significant Accounting Policies the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and The risk The Company, which is a multi-class feeder fund, undetected misstatements does not exceed materiality for the invested 95.3% of its net assets at 31 December 2015 into financial statements as a whole.
This testing requires us to the ordinary US Dollar, Euro and Sterling denominated Class conduct significant depth of work on a broad range of assets, B Shares issued by Brevan Howard Master Fund Limited the liabilities, income and expense as well as devoting significant time Master Fund, which is an open ended investment company.
of the most experienced members of the audit team, in particular The Companys investment holdings in the Master Fund are the Responsible Individual, to subjective areas of the accounting valued using the respective net asset value per share class and reporting process.
as provided by the Master Funds administrator.
The valuation of the Companys investment in the Master Fund, given it An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and represents the majority of the net assets of the company, is a disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable significant area of our audit.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material Our response Our audit procedures with respect to the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Companys investment in the Master Fund included, but were assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate not limited to, obtaining the net asset value per share and to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently holdings per share confirmations for each respective share applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of class directly from the administrator of the Master Fund, significant accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors: reviewing the audit work performed by the auditor of the and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED TO THE MEMBERS OF BH MACRO LIMITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 21 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the our audit continued Corporate Governance Statement on Pages 7 to 8 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the UK addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing Scope of report and responsibilities the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for The purpose of this report and restrictions on its use by our report.
persons other than the Companys members as a body This report is made solely to the Companys members, as Disclosures of principal risks a body, in accordance with section 262 of the Companies Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have Guernsey Law, 2008 and, in respect of any further matters on nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: which we have agreed to report, on terms we have agreed with the Viability statement on pages 5 to 6, concerning the the Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we principal risks, their management and, based on that, the might state to the Companys members those matters we are directors assessment and expectations of the Companys required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other continuing operation over the three years to 31 December purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept 2018: or or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this the disclosures in note 3 of the financial statements concerning report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland we Responsibilities set out on page 12, the directors are responsible are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we for the preparation of the financial statements and for being acquired during our audit, we have identified other information satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material accordance with applicable law and International Standards on misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Those standards require us to comply with the UK Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Lee C Clark financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and For and on behalf of KPMG Channel Islands Limited understandable and provides the information necessary for Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors members to assess the Companys performance, business Glategny Court model and strategy: or Glategny Esplanade St Peter Port the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately Guernsey address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
GY1 1WR Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 21 March 2016 the Company has not kept proper accounting records: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or we have not received all the information and explanations, which to the best of our knowledge and belief are necessary for the purpose of our audit.
