Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OFBREWIN DOLPHIN HOLDINGS PLC Opinion on financial statements of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and the parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2015 and of the groups profit for the period then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 37.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 3 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the group on page 29.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 29 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 31 to 33 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in note 3 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the directors explanation on page 29 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
83 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment review of intangible assets client relationships and goodwill Historically the group expanded through acquisitions leading In assessing the intangible assets, we have reviewed the calculations to goodwill and client relationships, resulting in the recognition prepared by management to assess whether they meet the of 77.7m 2014: 87.0m of capitalised client relationships requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and that the and goodwill.
assumptions and judgements made are appropriate.
The impairment of these intangible assets represents a key area of In doing this we have challenged the percentages management have judgment because the group assesses whether the ongoing benefits applied to market values of funds under management to determine offered by the capitalised client relationship intangibles and goodwill fair value, and validated these against percentages derived from are greater than the carrying value or whether there is an indication recent public acquisitions of fund management businesses.
This assessment is driven by estimates of future We have also performed procedures to test the controls over the income flows from funds under management.
production of funds under management data used as the basis for the estimates of future revenue flow.
See Note 16 for disclosure and Note 1 for critical Additionally we have performed a recalculation on the sensitivity of the accounting policies.
valuation of funds under management which is included in note 17.
Assumptions underlying the calculation of the pension scheme deficit The group has recognised a defined benefit pension deficit of 2.9m In order to evaluate the appropriateness of the assumptions 2014: 7.7m, see Note 27.
The valuation of the deficit, being the net of used by management we have used our own actuarial experts to the assets 81.9m and liabilities 84.8m, is significant as this balance make direct enquiries of the Groups actuary and review the key impacts the companys distributable reserves and is estimated based on actuarial assumptions adopted for the IAS 19 Employee Benefits management judgement.
calculations for compliance with the requirements of the accounting standard, in particular, considering the discount rate, inflation rate Uncertainty arises as a result of estimates made in respect of longand mortality assumptions against other available information and term trends and market conditions to determine the value based on similar demographics.
the groups expectations of the future.
As a result, the final deficit realised by the group may be significantly different to that recognised We have circularised the custodian of the pension scheme assets on the balance sheet since small changes to the assumptions used and independently recalculated the value of the schemes portfolio materially affect the valuation.
See Note 27 for disclosure and Note 1 for critical accounting policies.
Estimations for provisions for sundry claims and associated costs Sundry claims associated costs relate to estimated liabilities including We have discussed outstanding legal cases and claims received with costs related to litigation or client complaints of unsuitable or misleading management, reviewed the associated legal correspondence and advice occurring in the course of business.
The amount of 2.4m assessed whether the levels of provisions and associated insurance 2014: 1.9m recognised as a provision should be the groups best debtors are appropriate and that the debtor balances are likely to estimates of the expenditure required to settle these obligations and be recoverable.
therefore is subject to management judgement particularly in relation to We also received confirmations from the groups legal representatives probability and quantum of the claim.
and insurance broker in relation to the outstanding balances.
Recoveries from insurers related to such obligations should be recognised when it is virtually certain that the reimbursement will be received and should be treated as separate assets.
See Note 34 for disclosure and Note 1 for critical accounting policies.
84 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Onerous lease contracts and dilapidations As at 30 September 2015, management recognised onerous lease We discussed with management the estimation methodology used provisions of 4.1m 2014: 5.8m which arose due to properties and key assumptions to determine the onerous lease and dilapidation leased by the Group in regards to the branches being vacant during provisions and independently confirmed these amounts to source all or part of the period.
Assessments are made of the obligations documentation to assess whether they are appropriately calculated.
in respect of vacant space, taking account in certain cases, of any In visiting locations we established whether there was vacant potential income from subletting such space.
Due to the number of space not provided for and discussed the use of premises with leases held, the quantum of the lease charge, and the manual nature of local management.
the calculations there is a risk that errors could occur.
In additions, there has been an increase of 1.2m in the estimate of the provision for dilapidations in relation to leases.
This is as a result of management performing a review of the property portfolio after the termination and surrendering of a number of leases, such that a more reliable estimate can now be made for future costs.
Sale of the Stocktrade division During the period, the group entered into a contract for the sale of its We have assessed the terms within the sale agreement and other execution only division, Stocktrade and the associated balances have associated contracts for the appropriate treatment under IFRS been disclosed as discontinued operations.
3 Business Combinations and IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
The sale of Stocktrade is unlikely to complete until the first half of 2016, however the transaction was only partially completing pre-the year end We have performed a detailed analysis of the progress of the date and not all clients had been transferred across.
The costs and transaction as at 30 September 2015 and challenged managements related provisions are included in the financial statements, however the approach to the treatment of revenue.
Additionally, we tested the revenue for the sale of 14m is deferred until the following period, see discontinued operations disclosure for the timing of the recognition Note 13. of the consideration and the related costs and their completeness and accuracy.
The control and risks and rewards of the contracts had not been fully transferred and so there is a risk that the revenue and associated provisions are recorded incorrectly.
Last year, our report included two risks which are not included in our report this year: Software impairment and related contractual obligations.
This is in relation to capitalised software that management determined was substantially impaired in the year ended 2014.
The risk relating to the remaining balance has been determined as not significant.
Estimations used in the calculation of shares to be issued.
The inputs in relation to the calculation of shares to be issued can be precisely determined in the current period and therefore do not require management estimate.
Additionally, we have split out the risk disclosed in 2014 as estimations for provisions for sundry claims and associated costs and onerous lease contracts into two separate risks as the nature of the risk has diverged.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 59 and 60.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
85 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 3.0m 2014: 2.8m, which is 5% 2014: 7% of pre-tax profit from continuing operations.
This is a change of rate from 2014, where we used 7% of profit before tax.
We have changed the percentage applied to align more closely with comparable companies.
Additionally, in 2014 we used adjusted pre-tax profit by taking into account the exceptional m which was a significant and non-recurring expense.
impairment charge of 31.7 We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 61,000 2014: 54,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
The group consists of the main trading subsidiary, Brewin Dolphin Limited along with Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited, Brewin Dolphin MP Limited, Brewin Dolphin Nominees Ireland Limited and 8 nominee companies that are in the scope of our audit.
Brewin Dolphin Limited and Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited make up 99% of the group revenue.
For these two entities we use component materiality to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements in the group financial statements exceeds materiality for the group financial statements as a whole.
The component materialities are 2.6m and 1.5m respectively.
The majority of the operations of the Group are based in the United Kingdom and are audited by Deloitte LLP.
The only exception to this is Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited, an Irish Company, which represents less than 5% of revenue and which is audited by a Deloitte affiliate.
We have supervised their work on the figures included in the Groups financial statements for this entity through the issuance of instructions, receipt of summaries of work performed and ongoing dialogue and a visit during the audit process.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits to branches, which primarily operate as local sales offices, that have been designed so that a senior member of the group audit team visits the locations on a rotational basis.
In total, our work included visits to 6 branches.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
86 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Ifwebecome aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Oliver Grundy FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 1 December 2015 87 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 88 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In this section 90 Consolidated Income Statement 91 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 92 Consolidated Balance Sheet 93 Consolidated Statement of Changes inEquity 94 Company Balance Sheet 95 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 96 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 97 Company Cash Flow Statement 98 Notes to the Financial Statements 98 1.
Application of new and r evised International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and changes inaccounting policy 99 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty 108 5.
Finance income and finance costs 111 11.
Shar es to be issued including premium and other deferred purchaseliabilities 126 26.
Financial instruments and risk management 133 27.
Notes to the Cash Flow Statement 145 36.
Restatement of prior period information 148 Five Year Record continuing operations unaudited 89 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report
