75 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the Members of British Empire Trust plc Opinion on financial statements Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor In our opinion the financial statements: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs out on pages 44 and 45, the Directors are responsible for the preparation as at 30 September 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Reporting Standards: and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Companies Act 2006. comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
What we have audited Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have audited the financial statements of British Empire Trust plc for An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures the year ended 30 September 2015 which comprises the Statement of in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in Equity, Balance Sheet, financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 20.
The financial reporting by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been International Financial Reporting Standards.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
or for the opinions we have formed.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The risks that we have identified are consistent with those risks that were identified in the prior year.
The Audit Committee have set out their assessment of the significant issues in relation to the financial statements on page 68.
The table below also includes our responses to the risks: Risk Identified Our Response The investment portfolio at the year end comprised of quoted equity We assessed the controls in place at the accounting administrator, investments of 707 million.
The valuation of the assets held in the Capita Asset Services, to confirm there were no significant investment portfolio is the key driver of the Companys investment return.
exceptions in security pricing or position reconciliations.
Incorrect asset pricing or a failure to maintain proper legal title of the assets held by the Company could have a significant impact on portfolio valuation We agreed all the year-end prices of the investments to an independent and, therefore, the return generated for shareholders.
source using our proprietary pricing tool operated by our team of pricing specialists.
We agreed the number of shares held for each security to confirmations of legal title received from the Companys custodian JP Morgan and third party evidence.
76 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the Members of British Empire Trust plc continued Our application of materiality In addition, we have not identified anything material to add or to draw We determined planning materiality for the Company to be 6,975k attention to in relation to: 2014: 8,270k which is 1% of total equity.
This provided a basis The Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried for determining the nature, timing and extent of our risk assessment out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, procedures, identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement including those that would threaten its business model, future and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
performance, solvency or liquidity: We have derived our materiality calculation based on a proportion of total The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and equity as we consider it to be the most important financial metric on which explain how they are being managed or mitigated: shareholders would judge the performance of the Company.
The Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material of the Companys overall control environment, our judgment was that uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial individual account or balance for the Company should be 75% of planning statements: and materiality, being 5,232k 2014: 6,202k.
Our objective in adopting The Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have this approach was to ensure that total undetected and uncorrected audit assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning materiality level.
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital for Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as the Company we have also applied a separate testing materiality of 656k they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related 2014: 538k for the revenue column of the Statement of Comprehensive disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications Income, being 5% of the return on ordinary activities before taxation.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report all audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, differences in excess of 349k 2014: 413k as well as differences below in our opinion: that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records qualitative considerations.
and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 made: or In our opinion: : we have not received all the information and explanations we require the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been for our audit.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is the Directors statement, set out on page 45, in relation to going consistent with the financial statements.
concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Matters on which we are required to report by exception Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Governance Code specified for our review.
Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Ashley Coups Senior Statutory Auditor materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, statements: or Statutory Auditor apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent London with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of 6 November 2015 performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
