Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Independent auditor re s port to the members of Caledonia Investments plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit value any holding, we obtained an understanding of the circumstances 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified surrounding the transactions and whether it was considered to be on We have audited the financial statements of Caledonia Investments plc an arms-length basis and suitable as an input into a valuation.
Our work for the year ended 31 March 2015 set out on pages 60 to 78.
In our included consideration of events which occurred subsequent to the opinion: year end up until the date of this audit report.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the We compared the investment property valuations of the directors to groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 and valuations performed by the external valuer and evaluated the of the groups profit for the year then ended: competence, capabilities and objectivity of the valuer.
With the assistance of our own valuation specialist, we considered the the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance appropriateness of the external and internal valuations and inherent with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the assumptions by comparing the groups assumptions to externally European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : derived data.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared For the valuation of fund interests we obtained and agreed the latest in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in reported net asset values from the fund managers.
Our procedures accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and also included obtaining audited financial statements of the funds and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the checking the historical accuracy of the net asset values.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group Our procedures also included consideration of the appropriateness, financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
in accordance with relevant accounting standards, of the disclosures in 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement note 22 in respect of unlisted investments and the effect of changing In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks one or more inputs to reasonably possible alternative valuation of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were assumptions.
as follows: Carrying value of investments listed on recognised stock exchanges Valuation of unlisted investments 850.2m 648.6m Refer to page 36 Audit Committee report, page 64 accounting policy Refer to page 37 Audit Committee report, page 64 accounting policy and page 68 financial disclosures and page 68 financial disclosures The risk The risk 50.9% of the groups total assets by value is held in investments where The groups portfolio of listed equity investments makes up 38.8% of no quoted market price is available.
Unlisted investments are measured the total assets of the group and is considered to be one of the key at fair value, which is established in accordance with International Private drivers of operations and performance results.
We do not consider these Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines by using measurements investments to be at high risk of significant misstatement, or to be subject of value such as price of recent orderly transactions, earnings multiples to a significant level of judgement because they comprise liquid, quoted and net assets.
There is a significant risk over the valuation of these investments.
However, due to their materiality in the context of the investments and this is one of the key judgmental areas that our audit financial statements as a whole, they are considered to be one of the focused on.
areas which had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning and completing our audit.
Our response Our procedures included: Our response Our procedures over the completeness, valuation and existence of Enquiry of management to document and assess the design and the groups listed equity investment portfolio included, but were not implementation of the investment valuation processes and controls in limited to: place.
We attended the biannual Challenge Committee meetings and all Audit Committee meetings where we assessed the effectiveness of the documenting and assessing the processes in place to record investment Committees challenge and approval of unlisted investment valuations.
transactions and to value the portfolio: Assessment of investment realisations in the period, comparing actual agreeing the valuation of 100 per cent of investments in the portfolio sales proceeds to prior year end valuations to understand the reasons to externally quoted prices: and for significant variances and consideration of whether they are agreeing 100 per cent of investment holdings in the portfolio to indicative of bias or error in the groups approach to valuations.
independently received third party confirmations.
Challenging the investment manager on key judgements affecting 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our investee company valuations in the context of observed industry best audit practice and the provisions of the International Private Equity and Materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 25m, Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
In particular, we challenged the determined with reference to a benchmark of total group assets, of which appropriateness of the valuation basis selected as well as the underlying it represents 1.5%.
assumptions, such as discount factors, and the choice of benchmark for earnings multiples.
We compared key underlying financial data We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected inputs to external sources and investee company audited accounts identified misstatements exceeding 1.2m in addition to other identified and management information as applicable.
We challenged the misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
assumptions around sustainability of earnings based on the plans The group audit team performed the audit of the group as if it was a single of the investee companies and whether these are achievable, and aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed using we obtained an understanding of existing and prospective investee the materiality levels set out above and covered 100% of total group company cash flows to understand whether borrowings can be serviced revenue, group profit before tax, and total group assets.
or refinancing may be required.
Where a recent transaction is used to 58 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Scope of report and responsibilities is unmodified As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set In our opinion: out on page 57, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair the parts of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
uk the information given in the strategic report and the directors report auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made solely to the companys for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared members as a body and is subject to important explanations and is consistent with the financial statements: disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into information given in the corporate governance statement set out on this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an pages 32 to 34 with respect to internal control and risk management understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Jonathan Mills Senior Statutory Auditor Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other Chartered Accountants information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency 15 Canada Square with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material London E14 5GL misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
27 May 2015 In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 55, in relation to going concern: and the part of the corporate governance statement on pages 32 to 34 relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 59
