The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 I ndependent Auditors Report to the Members of T he City of London Investment Trust plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, The City of London Investment Trust plcs financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2015 and of its net return and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited The City of London Investment Trust plcs financial statements comprise: the Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2015: the Income Statement for the year then ended: the Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
Theseare cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Overall materiality: 11.8 million which represents 1% of net assets.
Materiality The Company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and engages Henderson Investment Funds Limited the Manager to manage its assets.
We conducted our audit of the financial statements using information from BNP Paribas Audit scope Securities Services the Administrator to whom the Manager has, with the consent of the Directors, delegated the provision of certain administrative functions.
We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the Company, the involvement of the third parties referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
Areas of focus Valuation and existence of investments Dividend income 33 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 I ndependent Auditors Report to the Members of T he City of London Investment Trust plc continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We tested the valuation of the listed equity investments by Valuation and existence of investments agreeing the prices used in the valuation to independent third Refer to page 32 Report of the Audit Committee, page 42 party sources.
No misstatements were identified by our testing Accounting Policies and page 48 Notes.
which required reporting to those charged with governance.
The investment portfolio at the year-end comprised listed equity We tested the existence of the investment portfolio by agreeing investments valued at 1,259.3 million.
the holdings to an independent custodian confirmation from HSBC Bank plc.
No differences were identified by our testing We focused on the valuation and existence of investments because which required reporting to those charged with governance.
investments represent the principal element of the net asset value as disclosed on the Balance Sheet in the financial statements.
Dividend income We assessed the accounting policy for income recognition for Refer to page 32 Report of the Audit Committee, page 42 compliance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP and Accounting Policies and page 45 Notes.
performed testing to check that income had been accounted for in accordance with this stated accounting policy.
We focused on the accuracy and completeness of dividend income recognition and its presentation in the Income Statement as set out We found that the accounting policies implemented were in accordance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP, and in the requirements of The Association of Investment Companies Statement of Recommended Practice the AIC SORP.
that income has been accounted for in accordance with the stated accounting policy.
This is because incomplete or inaccurate income could have a material impact on the Companys net asset value and dividend cover.
We understood and assessed the design and implementation of relevant controls surrounding income recognition.
We tested dividend receipts by agreeing the dividend rates from investments to independent third party sources.
No misstatements were identified by our testing which required reporting to those charged with governance.
To test for completeness, we tested that the appropriate dividends had been received in the year by reference to independent data of dividends declared by investment holdings in the portfolio.
Our testing did not identify any unrecorded dividends.
We tested the allocation and presentation of dividend income between the revenue and capital return columns of the Income Statement in line with the requirements set out in the AIC SORP.
We then tested the validity of special dividends to independent third party sources.
We did not find any special dividends that were not treated in accordance with the AIC SORP.
34 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 I ndependent Auditors Report to the Members of T he City of London Investment Trust plc continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the types of investments within the Company, the involvement of the Manager and Administrator, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
The Companys accounting is delegated to the Administrator who maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the Manager and the Directors.
As part of our risk assessment, we assessed the control environment in place at both the Manager and the Administrator to the extent relevant to our audit.
This assessment of the operating and accounting structure in place at both organisations involved obtaining and reading the relevant control reports issued by the independent auditor of the Manager and the Administrator in accordance with generally accepted assurance standards for such work.
We then identified those relevant controls at the Administrator on which we could place reliance to provide audit evidence.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall materiality 11.8 million 2014: 10.7 million.
How we determined it 1% of net assets.
Rationale for We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice for investment trust audits.
benchmark applied We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 594,000 2014: 537,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 24, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Companys financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Company has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
35 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 I ndependent Auditors Report to the Members of T he City of London Investment Trust plc continued ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or to report arising from this apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company responsibility.
acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 25, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced to report arising from this and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Companys responsibility.
performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 31, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the We have no exceptions work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit to report arising from this Committee.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
36 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 I ndependent Auditors Report to the Members of T he City of London Investment Trust plc continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 25, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 17 September 2015 37
